ParlaMint-DK_20160601090006	The meeting is open. The Danish People's Party Parliamentary Group has informed me that it has appointed Steen Thomsen as a member to the Board of Directors of the Institute of Multiparty Cooperation instead of Aia Fog. The closing debate today will be interpreted in sign language so that the deaf can follow the debate. The sign language interpretation can be found on the Danish Parliament's website ft.dk directly and subsequently on demand.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601090101	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption is not postponed. There must be a justification. So it is the rapporteur for the questions put by Mrs Mette Frederiksen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601090137	On behalf of the authors of the question, I should like to explain the question: at this time of the parliamentary year, it is a tradition for us to take a stand on the parliamentary year which has passed, and that is why we are asking tradition to ask the Prime Minister a question in which we are asking for an account of the domestic and foreign policy situation in which Denmark finds itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601090202	Thank you. Then there is an answer from the Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601090236	Thank you so much. That is actually what I would like to begin by saying. Thanks to the Danish People's Party, thanks to the Social Democracy, the Radical Left, the Conservative People's Party, the Socialist People's Party, the Liberal Alliance, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative. With your help, we've been getting something out of hand since the election. Thank you. My ministers and I look forward to continuing cooperation for an even better Denmark. The government has come some way through broad cooperation • the broad cooperation, which is, of course, at the heart of our democracy. The opposition has also made proposals, some of them have found a majority, it is also democracy, but most importantly, the government has entered into agreements with all the parliamentary political parties, 38 in total, the first as early as the day after the formation of the government, and the latest yesterday; it is roughly a new agreement every 10 days. We expect 186 legislative proposals and resolutions to be adopted; this corresponds to close to a proposal a day during the parliamentary year. We have revived the tripartite agreements, which were otherwise declared dead and gone under the previous government. And I'm delighted about all this. I am particularly happy when I meet the commitment that keeps all of Denmark alive and going and brings us on to teachers, school leaders, fire-souls who help young people who got off on the wrong foot in adult life; relatives who do everything they can for their loved ones, and more; managers who hire refugees and contribute to better integration; jobs that open up to young people on the edge of society and give them a chance to gain control over their adult life. I have had visits by hundreds of dedicated Danes to the theme meeting and conference at Marienborg, and if any of you are listening here today, I would like to thank you for the inspiration. Next to you are the thousands all over the country who take responsibility every day and do something extra. Thanks for the effort. You make Denmark Denmark. The country we have today is not built by one party, one man or one woman. It was built by the Danes. Our country is not resting, not on easy solutions, but on responsible solutions. Therefore, Denmark is a very special country, a strong society of security, of prosperity, of harmony. We must take care of that in a world that changes, and we must improve that. Last summer, when the government stepped in, I put four points of reference for the government's work. Firstly, we need more private jobs. Secondly, we need a stronger core welfare. Thirdly, we need more people into the working community. Fourthly, we must pursue a consistent and realistic policy on foreigners. In all four areas, we are now less than a year away. More private jobs were, and are, my first point of reference, because private jobs are there, income comes from, that is what the welfare society is based on. Companies must have good conditions so that new jobs can be created in Denmark and not outside Denmark. We have relaxed NO x We reduce inheritance taxes. We have removed the advertising tax with which the previous government would burden companies. And together we have made tax cuts for 4 billion. kr. We are making life easier for businesses to stop burdens; targeted action against over-implementing EU rules; the aim is that new business legislation will only come into force twice a year. The regulation of our agriculture, an important part of the food cluster, had become too rigid. We have done this more sensibly so that the whole large food cluster will have better conditions so that they can create jobs, even where it is needed. The housing job scheme has been reinstated, so craftsmen have something to tear in, also out there, where there is a little longer between houses. We are liberalising the law of plans. I hope that later this week it will end happily with a broad agreement that gives more responsibility to those to whom the decisions relate and comes close. It will also help to provide activity throughout the country. We're doing more than that. We are in the process of the largest relocation of state jobs ever. 4,000 jobs are moving from the capital to the rest of the country. I was there myself when the Danish Trade Administration first opened in Ribe. Today, 4 months later, more than 650 jobs have been relocated and the vast majority follow this year and next year. We do this because we have to take responsibility for a Denmark that is linked. We have to believe that the whole country can take responsibility. That's why we're moving government jobs, and that's why we need more private jobs. That is also why I am rather sorry that a majority in the Folketing has decided to reduce the opportunities for companies to employ highly qualified foreigners. It's moving in the wrong direction. But that does not shake the fact that overall it is going the right way. More people have come to work. The new figures that came yesterday speak their very clear language. Since last summer, 38,000 more private jobs have been created. Without jobs no wealth, without prosperity no welfare. That's how simple the equation is. Therefore, my second point of reference was, and is, that we must have a stronger core welfare. I'm in favour of security for everyone, no matter what family you're born into. My own mother left school after 7th grade, I went after the university, and many in my own generation are examples of the same. You gotta be able to move. That's what I grew up in. This is what I want my children and grandchildren to grow up in. That is why I also attach great importance to the fact that there are good opportunities for choosing the right education. Education is the main road to moving socially • good education, right for the individual, useful for the community. We have presented an ambitious proposal for reform of the high schools. The aim is to strengthen the skills of students, because we are tightening the requirements and making upper secondary education better and more targeted. But high school is not the right way for all young people. We need more people to choose vocational training, preferably in the first attempt, so that they get the best possible starting point in adult life. I am a strong supporter of a secure welfare society. And what is more fundamental to security than being able to receive treatment when you are ill? It is my vision that citizens should have high quality health care, regardless of their postal code, regardless of their wallet. It was a vision that we started to realize back in 2001, and since then we have come quite far better cancer treatment, super hospitals, unique patients' rights but we haven't got far enough. We never really do that either, because we must always have the ambition to do the good even better. The government adds 2.4 billion. kr. extra for health this year • 2.4 billion. kr. That is exactly what we voted for, and that is 0.5 billion. kr. more than the previous government went to the polls. And here in the Folketing we have agreed on a number of principles for prioritising hospital medicine. Thank you for the broad support for that. We have adopted a new right of investigation, a right of inquiry, and this with a very broad majority behind it. Some of those who have always been opposed now suddenly voted in favour. Thank you. I think this is positive and I see it as an expression of a change of attitude. When 15 years ago I announced the idea that patients should have strong rights, that they should have the opportunity to choose the waiting time from whatever size of the purse, that one should be able to move from the queue, that one should also have an opportunity to choose private, if the queue is too long, yes, then it was an ideological battleground. It is so evident and fortunately not anymore. Thank you. Now we put the human being before the system, and the systems must be better at talking to each other. Too many older people and their relatives have tried to fall between two systems, and then you settle down. That is why we have set aside 1.2 billion. kr. to an action plan for elderly medical patients. We have implemented an emergency package aimed at the major problem that patients must lie on the corridors. We need the treatment to be connected across the hospital, the municipality and our own doctor for the benefit and pleasure of the patient. The next step will be to make Denmark a dementia-friendly country. Dementia is a disease that affects more and more people. It is a heavy disease to bear, and it is a very heavy disease to be related to. Imagine not being able to have a conversation with someone closest to you. Imagine that the man or woman you've been married to in a lifetime suddenly withers and becomes someone else. It causes heavy anxiety, it causes anxiety, it causes impotence. Three weeks ago I visited the apple garden community in Holte. Here I had a good talk with Aase and Mariann, who have both lost their men after illness with dementia. As Aase said, you get worn out. And when the nursing home is finally there and it is good that it can be the hardest moment anyway, because, as Mariann said, the worst is the day when you realize that he is not coming home again. The next of kin carry the heaviest burden. We owe them a strong hand so they don't fall under that burden. The government has set aside 470 million. kr. to a new national dementia action plan. We need to strengthen the core welfare. There must be money for that. It must be possible to afford this, even if the basic conditions of the public economy are clearly low. Despite this, the government, with the backing of the parties that have taken responsibility for the Finance Act, adds a total of 3.4 billion. kr. extra for health and the elderly this year. 2.4 billion kr. for health, 1 billion. kr. I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Despite a tight economy, the government has given the municipalities 1⁄2 billion. kr. more for service this year • 1⁄2 billion. kr. More. Under the former Social Democratic-led government, municipalities could spend 3 billion. kr. less so, even though it may not be the impression one gets from the debate. We need more people in the working community. That was and is my third pointer. Denmark is not economically linked when too few have to provide for many. Then it's not human. That is why we need to set up a society where it is better to work. The government has carried out an integration grant so that in future foreigners will receive what is equivalent to the young people's SU. We have reinstated a ceiling on cash benefits, with the aim of providing a substantial income increase for cash benefits recipients by taking a full-time job also to a wage at the low end. I think that is fair. And both are part of the first phase of the job reform that we chose to implement. The second phase is targeted tax relief on, in particular, small labour incomes. We will have to do something about this in the autumn so that work pays better. We must create a more efficient and flexible labour market. It is also an objective in the tripartite negotiations with employers and employees. When we called them and started them, I did not take it for granted that they would succeed, because four years ago they broke down, and that sort of wears off. Fortunately, however, the Danish model has proved to be hard-wearing and I welcome the fact that employees and employers have shown courage and socialism. We have now reached one agreement, and I expect more to come. The first agreement includes a new basic integration training, for the new ones among us, no matter how many people are expected to come, some people are not allowed to end up in public support. They're gonna make their own money, because if they don't, they're gonna have to live off ours. Therefore, it is part of the wider aim of the government to get fewer on transfers and more in work. In six months, the number of people on public support has fallen by about 10,000 people. It's going the right way, but we have to move on. We're not in the finish line. My fourth point was and is a consistent and realistic foreign policy. We need to control the influx of asylum seekers. The problem is complicated, the background is serious, the situation is unhappy. Last summer, Europe broke open. People fleeing from anything or fleeing to the dream of a better life flowed completely unhindered across the external borders, continued up through the countries, also to Denmark. We all remember the pictures of migrants and refugees who wandered on the highways from Rødby and up through Zealand. And from the outset it was clear that the solution has two dimensions: a European and a national one. Basically, it was, and indeed is, a common European problem that Europe had to solve together. However, to put it mildly, there were very different positions in the European Union, which is why the answers dragged out and dragged out, which is why, of course, we had to act ourselves. There was a need to tighten up after the previous government's 31 relaxations of immigration policy • 31 reliefs. I believe that the chairman of the Radical Left usually counts it as 45, but leave it at that. It was in all fairness 31 relaxations. We have introduced stricter requirements for family reunification for refugees with temporary protection, stricter rules for permanent residence, integration benefit, border control. The government is pursuing a consistent foreign policy. Last year, in Sweden, Norway, Finland and Germany, in all our neighbouring countries, the number of asylum seekers increased by 100 per cent. or more. In Denmark it increased by about 40%. That is too many, but much less than what we saw in our neighbouring countries. Imagine the situation where it wasn't tighter. The government's attitude has always been • also before we became government • that number matters. It's not something we invented for the occasion. We've been saying that for years. We must make a massive effort to control the external borders of the European Union effectively. Refugees are best helped in the neighbourhoods. We must pursue a realistic foreign policy. We cannot solve the world's refugee problems in Europe. We did not share that view with many people when Europe broke open. That was not something that all Member States wanted to hear. For a start, we spoke to the deaf when we talked about the fact that it is not a solution just to distribute the problem but that the problem needs to be solved. Now there has been greater responsiveness. The Balkan route is closed. The European Union has reached an agreement with Turkey. We can send back irregular migrants and asylum seekers. Cynical smugglers must give up making money from the fact that families and children are risking their lives in overcrowded and deceptive boats. In January up to 70,000 people came from Turkey to the Greek islands, in May about 1,300. We feel that in Denmark too. In January we received over 1,600 asylum seekers, in May about 350. It is far fewer than in the autumn, and it is the lowest number in a month since February 2012. That doesn't mean we can sit back. The power from Turkey can start again, and the traffickers can find new routes. However, this shows that when pressure is pressed, the European Union is able to act. This shows that Denmark is being listened to. This shows that strong European cooperation is in Denmark's interest. My position is clear: we must keep the number of asylum seekers to a reasonable level. And that means that we have to go down considerably further than both the 21,000 that came last year and the close to 15,000 that came 2 years ago. There we are now, but it must be supervised and the government is ready to act to ensure that it is not shaken. The world has moved closer with deeply complicated conflicts, with fragile states and terrorism. How do we best meet the new challenges and new opportunities? Last year the government asked Ambassador Peter Taksøe-Jensen to make some suggestions. Taksøe's report has already led to good discussions here in the Folketing, and I look forward to the continued discussions as we proceed with the individual recommendations. In Denmark we must take care of our safety and interest. We must look after our country; we must safeguard our values, at home and out in the world. We shouldn't open the door to anyone who doesn't want us to be okay. Therefore, we need lists of foreign hate preachers so that we can prevent them coming to Denmark. For those who are already here, we want to extend the criminalisation of statements that undermine Danish legislation and we refuse to be a laughing stock for our own money. That is why tax concessions and public information support are over for those who preach against our democracy. We reached a broad agreement on all this yesterday. Out in the world, we need to get rid of ISIL's reign of terror. This is central to achieving stability in Iraq, Syria and in the rest of the region, and it is also important for our own security in Europe. It's a long way to go. It won't be easy. But there are signs that the coalition is pushing ISIL into the defensive, and now we need to hold on to it. On the civilian side, Denmark is increasing its support for restricting foreign fighters to ISIL, countering propaganda, cutting funding and preventing the terrorist movement from gaining a foothold in liberated areas. On the military side, we engage with F-16 aircraft, special forces and with a transport contribution. And I'd like to sign for Parliament's broad support for it. It shows that we stand together when it comes to this. In the longer term, modern and functional fighter planes are necessary, both for our preparedness at home, but also for us to continue to participate in international missions. Therefore, the government has proposed that our almost 40-year-old F-16 aircraft, which is very soon pensionable, should be replaced by F-35 Joint Strike Fighter. I can understand those who take note of the fact that it costs a lot of money, because it does. It's a big investment. But it is an investment in Denmark, it is an investment in our security, it is an investment in that Denmark can always remain Denmark, and it is absolutely necessary for us to continue to carry out the same tasks as before. The material must be top, for it is top material, it is equal to man, and they are top. Denmark has some of the world's best soldiers. The Danish soldiers and our other missions are doing a unique job in Iraq, Afghanistan, Mali and Kosova. They deserve our deepest respect, and that is why I should like to express my heartfelt thanks to our sendees today. When the sentees return home, we need to help those who need help. It's all missing. We've gotten better at that. We started it back in 2009-2010 when we formulated the first veteran policy, but we have to keep looking at whether we can do better yet. Therefore, the government is completing a service check of the efforts of the veterans. Our senders have made greater sacrifices and risked more than anyone. That's why the Danish Parliament supports our soldiers. They deserve that. Thank you so much. Last week we had the annual debate about the Kingdom Community here in the Folketing. It was a good, lively and long debate that also showed that there is broad support among the parties for the community between our three countries. Greenland, the Faroe Islands and Denmark have together found responsible solutions to difficult problems. The Government supports Greenland's efforts to develop the raw materials sector and generate new revenues, and by the end of the week I expect us to adopt the bill that will allow Greenland to extract and export uranium. Together with the Faroe Islands and Greenland, we have completed the work of identifying border barriers in the Kingdom Community. The next step will be to remove the obstacles that restrict freedom of movement within the Kingdom community. Both the Faroe Islands and Greenland want to take over responsibility for new matters. It is in the Faroe Islands, for example. personal, family and inheritance rights. In Greenland it is the working environment. We respect that; it strengthens autonomy. The Kingdom community is something special. I believe that we need to do more to mark our community, to respect diversity, to show that we appreciate each other, and that is why, as everyone knows, the government has decided that the Greenlandic and Faroese flags should be flagged on the national days of the countries on 21 June and 29 July. I'm looking forward to it. I'm proud of the Kingdom. I am also proud of the part of the Kingdom community called Denmark. Denmark is a great country. I can't, no matter how much I let the imagination fly, imagine a better place to live my life. I myself have had greater and richer opportunities than my parents, who again had a better starting point than my grandparents. It creates a duty to deliver a Denmark to our children, who are freer, richer and fairer than what we took over ourselves, namely a country that is still one of the richest and safest in the world, where a Danish family can afford the same as a Swedish or German family, can take on a holiday, help the children a little while on the way when they leave home, change the small car in the garage or carport, when the old one is worn down • things that matter in everyday life, the close well-being of the families. It is a country where core welfare works and is up-to-date, with good education and safe care, world-class health, a strong common welfare. I think most of us want that, if not what I both believe and hope • all of us. We have a responsibility, all of us, all of us Danes, but especially those of us who sit in this Chamber today. Denmark is the country of opportunity. Every year I have the pleasure and the honour of giving a prize to a person who has managed to reach out for opportunities, lift himself up and take responsibility for his own life despite opposition. It happens under the auspices of the Løkkefond, a project for boys on the edge that I helped start a few years ago. In the spring, I handed the prize as the Knight of the Year to Jamil. Jamil's starting point from school was • and it's not an exaggeration • not flashy, let's just put it that way, but it was. Through hard work, persistence, growing faith in his own abilities and discipline, he passed the 9th grade with 7- and 10-s and is now in his dream education as a carpenter. I think it is a good thing that it brings enormous respect. Jamil and many with him are the face of us all pursuing our dreams, and that it is possible to grow when faced with challenges and expectations. We must pursue those dreams as people, and we must as a country. We must make a strong Denmark stronger. Right now unemployment is falling, employment is rising, the sun is shining, it is actually going very well, we are not in a deep crisis as we were a few years ago. Last time I was prime minister, Denmark had been hit by the biggest international economic crisis since the 1930s, it was not that easy to overlook, and out of it there was also a drive forward, a little faster in some than others, but it grew. We carried out an unemployment benefit reform and we changed the post-retirement salary. It was major reforms, major reforms that stood, even though the government changed, and that means that as a country we are stronger today. After all, those reforms were possible because there was a strong sense of crisis, which is why there was support for, or at least an acceptance for, something to be done. That is the way it is: recognition is the first step towards action, not with easy answers, because the easy answers are rare, or perhaps never, but with thoughtful and responsible solutions, and that is why we must recognise our situation today. We're not in crisis, but the world is changing. Some would say that it has always been, and that argument actually has a certain right. Already 2,500 years ago, the Greek philosopher Heraklit pointed out that the only constant change is, and today we can add that the changes are happening at a pace that we have never seen before, in a way that we have not known and to an extent that affects all parts of society, the way we live, the way we work and the way companies compete. Globalisation, new technology and digitalisation merge old industries and give birth to new ones, everything changes. It opens up new opportunities, and we must be ready to seize them. We must act and, as I see it, there are seven challenges for Denmark. Firstly, we are not good enough to create growth and jobs. We do not get enough out of our work, we need to get more done, and no, that does not mean that we need to stress more or that we need to run faster, but that means that we need to be completely advanced in our shoes and exploit robotics and digitalisation and train for business needs. For it is a fact that productivity in Denmark is growing more slowly than in all other countries in Europe, except Italy and Spain. It is a fact that too many investments land on the other side of the Øresund or south of the border instead of in Denmark. It is a fact that all Danish companies with over 1,000 employees are more than 20 years old. Secondly, the balance between those who are dependent and those who work is unbalanced. It is a challenge we have had for many years and it hangs, among other things. along with a high tax on work and rather generous transfer income. Thirdly, public expenditure is under pressure. The price of oil is low and we get less revenue from the North Sea, much less. Since we joined the government, the state's oil revenue has been adjusted by just under 9 billion. kr. in 2020, which means we have just under 9 billion. kr. less to do good with. It is almost as much as we spend on the police every year, and if you see it in a slightly longer perspective, the loss is even greater. Since 2013, the figure is double. Fourthly, the migration and refugee crisis. The cost of refugees must not run out of hand, because then we simply have less money for other things, in addition to the social, value and norm challenges. How much less money, indeed, depends on the number of people who come here, what conditions we offer them, and to a large extent on whether they can support themselves. These are all areas in which the government has taken action and where we will take action, for the sake of the economy, for the sake of coherence and for the sake of our values. Fifthly, we are also challenged on the common core welfare, and here is just one example: we have done much and improved cancer treatment, but a Dane with cancer is living less and less time than a Swede with cancer. We must improve core welfare at a time when public finances are tight. They are now, and they will be when the big vintages withdraw from the labour market, i.e. those who, like me, were born in the 1960s. In addition to these five challenges, we have two very acute problems which do not affect our overall economy in the same way, but which we still have to address, and that will then be the sixth challenge, namely that the current property assessments are not good enough. We're gonna need some more accurate assessments. An unresolved problem has been brought to us by the previous government. It must be solved so that the property owners can be safe with the treasure now and in the future. Seventhly, we must find another way of financing renewable energy. We're gonna make a green switch. Denmark is a green leader nation, that is what it is, and that is how it should be, but the way we have financed the green transition does not last. The PRS tax is contrary to EU rules. Moreover, it is also linked up so that it is very expensive for Danish companies and families, and that is why we have a clear and bound choice. We can open the PRS tax and start sending Danish taxes abroad. In my view, it will be Ebberød Bank or we can abolish the PRS tax and move the expense into the Finance Act and collect the same money. That is why the government has proposed a neutral change, just as we have said in the government base that we would do it, and our proposal makes no significant difference in terms of whether it is worthwhile to work or not in terms of equality and inequality; the bill is not getting any bigger; on the contrary, we want to reduce the bill. It is a challenge that must then become seven challenges, and it may seem heavy on the calendar this year's first summer day, which is why I would like to stress in conclusion that I do not want to dig into a black hole, on the contrary. My message today is that we have a strong starting point for making Denmark stronger if we act in time. We must take due care. If we don't do something, yes, then the future looks a little sad. If, on the other hand, we implement decisions and create new room for manoeuvre, then we will have brighter opportunities, and therefore the answer to the seven challenges I have listed here will be included in the government's plan for Denmark, the government's 2025 plan, which we are putting forward after the summer break. Denmark is a country with great opportunities if we look the problems in the eye and solve them together. We must take that responsibility upon ourselves, all of us here in the Folketing, and especially those who represent many voters. When you are a large party that wants to make a difference, you have to take co-responsibility, whether you are in government, support party or opposition. My own party has been involved in many agreements under the previous government: a tax reform, two major growth packages, education reforms and a financial agreement. We accepted the hand that was raised, and I would also like to raise my hand here today for cooperation in the autumn. We need broad agreements here at Christiansborg, that is my ambition, and I believe that. We must improve the opportunities of the Danes towards the next generation. We must make a strong Denmark stronger. The starting point is good, and it is far better than a year ago, thanks to resolutions in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601094555	Thank you, Prime Minister. We shall now proceed to the actual debate. It is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601094611	On Friday, March 25, Vivi Nielsen met at work. She met at the same place of work that she had had for more than 25 years, well liked by colleagues and the residents with whom she worked. The working day was the last hours of Vivis' life, because in a medicine room during the day Vivi Nielsen is stabbed from behind by a resident at Lindegården. This year we've lost Vivi. In 2014, two employees lost their lives on the Saxenhøj Bo offer. In 2013, an employee was killed at Ringbo in Bagsværd, and in 2012 it was a female social educator at Blåkærgård who did not come home from work. Five employees in the social psychiatry alone have paid the highest price. There is no reasonableness in this, and so we must not forget them. Because we have a responsibility here in the Folketing. There's let's find a solution before we go on summer vacation. We owe it to Vivi. We owe it to our colleagues, and we owe it to the survivors. Denmark is one of the world's strongest and most equal societies. We have a welfare society that works well in many places and guarantees people both fundamental freedom, security and development, but there are also problems: bureaucracy, lack of leadership, too few social progress, inequality in health and citizens who face a treatment that we simply cannot be aware of. The modern welfare society with free and equal access is for us Social Democrats at the heart of the development of future Denmark, but new country must be won. We need more people to break the negative social legacy. The level of education must be raised and there must be both money and time for care and care. In other words, we must have higher ambitions when it comes to each other. New social progress must be ensured. The parliamentary year is about to end. It's time to take stock. In the elections, a healthy economy was passed on and there is reason to welcome continued progress in employment, but unfortunately growth is too low. Investment is too low. We're starting to lack manpower in many places. The overall economy is under pressure. Of course, there are no simple answers, but for us there is something more crucial than anything else. First of all, it is about the justice that the Prime Minister did not find the basis for talking about. Secondly, we need prosperity. We must be able to create more private jobs. Thirdly, on accountability. We don't need more money than we do. Fourthly, to prioritize wisely and to recognise already now that, of course, the time is not for top tax incentives. Finally, to believe in the community that is in Denmark, and not least also in the public employees. Rich men have systematically moved their money away from Denmark to tax havens on the other side of the globe. Those who have saved their fortunes in Panama have not fulfilled the part of the contract that we each have to fulfil. That's why we have to respond in cash. We in the Social Democratic Party have presented an ambitious plan against tax evasion. We want higher penalties, advisory responsibilities, more money for SKAT and, of course, a stronger European effort. But in this case too, the government is slowing down. Nothing happened. Today's message from my side is, get a call for negotiations. We need to ensure both a more transparent and fair tax system, because how are we going to keep asking the Danes to pay their taxes when the government is at the same time passive to those who cheat the community? Yesterday we were reminded that growth is stabbed. It has to be said that the government's enthusiasm for zero growth has really come through. Denmark has a zero growth government. If we are to make new progress, we need strong companies. That is why it was a mistake when the government spent a great deal of money on the housing job scheme, lowering the registration fee and the inheritance tax. Because none of the three things really help the Danish companies. We already know that we are going to lack labour: skilled employees, not least employees with vocational training. We should rather spend money on it, on ensuring access to responsible capital, for example. via the Growth Fund, and then we will build on the Danish positions of strength. The fact that today the old Lindøværft is back on track is due to our climate ambitions. The fact that the harbour up in Hirtshals is among the most modern on ferry transport is due to the green transition. If we want jobs throughout Denmark, also for our unskilled, then we must cultivate the Danish positions of strength, because it is when we combine our Danish values and our skill that we can win in the global competition that we cannot by turning down our ambitions. That is why, of course, it is also the wrong way to go when the government chooses to cancel the Togfonden DK and slow down the green transition. The government has tried to make Togfonden DK a huge hole in the treasury. We now know that's not true. That's 200 million. kr. on a yearly basis, in terms of permanent revenue. We have a desire to bind Denmark as a whole together, and we will therefore propose that we take 200 million by 2020. kr. per year from the pool to better and cheaper public transport. The funding for the Train Fund DK will then be incorporated into a future 2025 plan. In this way we can bind Denmark both responsibly and fairly together. It goes without saying that we should never spend more money than we have. Just as right it is to help people flee in today's greatest refugee crisis, it is equally true that we cannot accept more than we can integrate, both because the cultural challenges of gender inequality and parallel societies need to be addressed, but also because otherwise it would mean huge savings elsewhere. So we must maintain a strict immigration policy, but at the same time give priority to stronger international engagement in the neighbourhood. At home, too, we must give priority, but not with a re-priority contribution, because that word covers nothing but savings. It goes without saying that everywhere in our society we must become more skilled, including in our welfare societies. But we want to spend the money where the Danes meet the welfare, not cut it down. When you put all this together, the time is simply not for blue block tax cuts. We will be discussing our overall economic policy in the autumn. I wonder if blue blocks' creativity extends to making worn-out access to pre-retirement and folk pensions even more difficult, to give carrots at the top and whip at the bottom and otherwise to cut down on what we have built up? As always, we will be involved in making the important decisions, but it must work. After all, Denmark has not become a rich country on top tax incentives or on reducing the access of hfs to universities. Denmark has not become one of the world's most secure societies on the back of great social inequality, and Denmark has not become a country with great cohesion through conflicts and pointless block policy, whether it be blue or red. We have a government that pushes all the important decisions ahead of it and at the same time vacuums all the corners of our society to scrape together for tax cuts. It is short-sighted, it is wrong, and excuse me, the government is too foot-to-mouth: no growth initiatives, no action against tax fraud, no solution for the public employees who are at risk of putting their lives at risk, no infrastructure for the whole country. In short, Denmark needs to get the boilers back on track not blindly by pumping tax relief into the economy here and now, not by blindly cutting back on those who already have the least. We need to look further, ensure that more people are able to become more skilled, because it is, at the end of the day, ourselves, our hands, our heads and our community that will ensure our common future. Then I would like to read out a proposal for adoption. Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that after a year of power the government has not delivered on its own four success criteria or delivered the long-term solutions that Denmark needs. The Danish Parliament invites the government to set a new course of cooperation broadly within the Danish Parliament. Parliament notes that the development of the welfare society requires that the re-prioritisation contribution be abolished in order to ensure core welfare throughout the country. The Danish Parliament also notes that there is a need to pursue a policy that ensures equal opportunities, combats poverty in Denmark and inequalities in education and health, and sets high ambitions for the environment and climate. • V 80).
ParlaMint-DK_20160601095624	Thank you. And that is part of the further discussion. Then there are a whole series of brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601095636	Thank you for that and thank you to the Socialist President and rapporteur for the speech to us here today. There are a lot of things you would like to ask, because there are many things that are falling. There is a stir in the social democratic parliamentary hinterland at the prospect of having the opportunity and the right to try the luck of the Danes and come back to the government, so there are plenty of things it might be exciting to ask. But there is one thing I have been thinking about in particular over the past week about something that I wonder how Mrs Mette Frederiksen feels about. It also came to some of the debate on Thursday, when the Socialist representative did not really want to answer the question in question, so now I will try to address the Socialist President: has the Social Democratic Party regretted the way in which the sale of DONG has been handled? Goldman Sachs seems to score a prize of perhaps 8-10 billion. kr. by coming in and investing for a few years in DONG. Have you regretted what you did when you sold out like that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601095733	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601095736	I think it is clear that DONG, as one of our most important companies, and not least one of our most important companies in relation to the necessary green conversion, needed new capital to be added. If DONG were to be able to develop wisely and sensibly for the benefit of both the climate and the environment, but also for the benefit of Danish taxpayers, capital should be provided. I have no basis for taking a different position from the fact that those who made the decision at that time have, of course, taken the decision that was the right one.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601095809	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601095812	This is a very elegant attempt to distance ourselves from it. Mrs Mette Frederiksen was then a member of the government who made that decision and has had a great influence on what was chosen to do, and Mrs Mette Frederiksen, of course, also has a responsibility for the way in which it was handled. There was, of course, a major discussion, in which I should say, in the past, senior social democrats were very active in finding the necessary capital from elsewhere. That's why it's interesting to know that now you can see that what it looks like is that Goldman Sachs in just a couple of years gets a very big win out of this. There were concerns that DONG was sold at the time on an excessively low basis, i.e. in valuation, and the valuation is here 2 years after very high, as it seems, and then someone can score a very large gain. Is it particularly sympathetic with social democratic spectacles that this has happened?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601095859	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601095902	I think we can see a DONG that is unusually strong. It is for the benefit of all of us, it is for the benefit of those of us who want the green switch-over.I think I might be a little more eager in my wish than the questioner is, and it is of course also for the benefit of Denmark that we have such a strong company that is so strong a voice both on the global stage and in relation to the green switch-over here at home. The decisions taken on DONG have no basis for questioning, and I assume, of course, that the fact that the parties of the Folketing have had access to the material and no grounds have been found for criticising the decision-making process has taken place as it should.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601095944	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601095948	Thank you very much. And thank you to Mrs Mette Frederiksen for a fine speech, which offers a great many opportunities to ask questions and become wiser. So we'll have the opportunity to do that. I should like to point out that Mrs Mette Frederiksen says that we must maintain a strict foreign policy. I fully agree with that. And that is also what Mrs Mette Frederiksen mentioned in her speeches on 1 May. One of the areas in which the Socialists have not voted in favour of the government's austerity is the area of integration benefits. So I just want to know if you want to maintain the benefits of integration. Or do the Socialists want to abolish the integration benefit and thus give access to cash benefits and children's cheques from the first day they are in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601100040	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601100041	First of all, I think there is reason to acknowledge that we have actually been able to work together widely in the Danish Parliament to sort out a potentially chaotic situation in the autumn, where a great many refugees arrived in Denmark and Europe, also more than we overall have the ability to manage and integrate. That's really positive. Then there are a few places where we do not think the government has thought of all the facets that are crucial. This applies, among other things, to: the integration benefit. Not least, we're worried about the kids. I am, in effect, glad that we are having the discussion again, because there are children who are at risk of getting into trouble here. That is why we voted against the benefits of integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601100128	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601100129	I understand the answer so that the opposition is maintained. You're against it. One can imagine a situation in which we abolished the integration benefit and thus gave it access to full cash benefits. Then I am a little surprised that Mrs Mette Frederiksen says that we need to control the influx, because that would have an effect on the influx. Don't we agree on that? What effect does Mrs Mette Frederiksen think it will have on the influx if significantly higher benefits are provided from the first day?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601100201	Here you go, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601100202	It can be said that, fortunately, more realism has crept into the whole refugee debate. This is also true in this Chamber. I remember the years when we were faced with each other and some claimed that there is no link at all between the policy we have in Denmark and how many refugees come here and others claimed the opposite. Things have a connection, and there is an interaction. That is why, of course, we must always have an eye on the overall asylum policy we are pursuing. When it comes to the benefits of integration, our concern is first and foremost the children. Although we in the Social Democratic Party share the ambition of the Left Party to get all refugees to work, our history says that we are not very good at it, and that is why we must have an eye that there may be children growing up under too bad conditions in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601100252	Thank you. Then it's mr. Anders Samuelsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601100256	Thank you. I would also like to say that there are many things you could ask about. How can one say, on the one hand, that we have too little growth in Denmark and that we need more growth in Denmark, and, on the other hand, at the same time do not want to tackle the tool which, according to the wise men, is indeed the most effective tool, namely to lower the tax burden, to lower the tax on labour, to lower the marginal tax? But that's not what I'm gonna ask you about. One of the things that has succeeded in the Liberal Alliance during this period of government is, of course, to have the registration tax reduced from 180 to 150 per cent. The Socialists seem to be very, very opposed to this. You think this is very wrong and Mrs Mette Frederiksen also spoke about it in her speech. So my question is: does that mean that we are going to vote on raising the registration fee again from 150 to 180 per cent??
ParlaMint-DK_20160601100343	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601100344	But when we oppose the lowering of registration fees, it is because it is the wrong medicine. Everyone agrees that we lack growth... most of us agree that we lack growth... and when you discuss this with community trusters, when you discuss this with owners of companies in Denmark, most people agree that what we need is to support the creation of more private jobs in Denmark. The registration fee only contributes to an incredibly small extent if it does at all. That is why we were opposed to lowering the registration fee. It is the wrong medicine at a time when we need to support Danish business. The money could have been used wiser.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601100427	Time and again, the wise men point to the fact that, next to lowering the marginal tax on work, the most effective tool for creating growth and, where there are the greatest dynamic effects, is actually a reduction in the registration tax. But that's not what I was asking. I asked for a yes or no to whether the Socialists are going to vote to raise the price of cars again. For a regular middle-class car, the price has been lowered by somewhere between DKK 15,000 and DKK 35,000. Is it the aim of the Socialists that those cars should be priced again, if that is such a vicious way of reducing taxes? We must then be able to get a clear answer: should the registration fee be raised again, yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601100511	We are now at the end of the parliamentary year. It has been a year and we must expect that there will still be some time for the next elections, and that is why we have not yet made up our minds how we are going to deal with the registration fee. We have no plans to raise it at the moment. However, let us come to the real discussion: let us get to the real discussion, because in a situation where we can now see that we are going to lack labour and where it is, not least our manufacturing companies, asking for access to skilled workers, then the blue block chooses to use the few free means available to reduce taxes in some areas that do not really create jobs. It was a wrong decision, and it will benefit Danish business to start pursuing a more growth-oriented policy instead of defending only its own interests.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601100600	Thank you. Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601100604	Thank you. And thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Something that I hear worries the Danes in these years is that we see economic inequality rising as significantly as it does. Since the financial crisis, we have faced a situation in which ordinary employees' wages are somewhat stagnant, where people outside the labour market and pensioners have in many cases experienced a real decline in consumption opportunities, while we have thus seen a tiny group at the top of society, in the executive class, having huge income development, far, far beyond what all other people are experiencing. This is something we see in many developed countries, but it is actually in Denmark that inequality has increased allerally fastest. In 2012, Mrs Mette Frederiksen was co-author of a chronicle in Politiken, which I think surprised many people it surprised me at least when Mrs Mette Frederiksen wrote that in 2012 it was no longer a key obligation to redistribute from rich to poor. Since then, there have been slightly different statements from different sides, but my question is really: does Mrs Mette Frederiksen consider it a key obligation to reduce economic inequality and the redistribution of some of those who have had a very high income growth to others?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601100722	Here you go, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601100723	It goes without saying that, as a Social Democrat, I am concerned that we have a fair development in our society, and in it is also about wanting to reprioritize and the ability to do so and to move resources. We have always done so historically, at least in recent times. And Denmark is one of the countries where a great deal of money is being redistributed, not only in relation to direct income through taxes, but also through our welfare societies. So it can be said that redistribution will always be central. what we use our tax system for, but it just can't stand alone. For many years I have experienced people who, in such a way, receive a transfer income and are guaranteed an economic basis, but where life is not good enough anyway, because you are not allowed to be part of a working community or get the education and knowledge that makes you able to shape your own life. So we need to attack the inequality agenda from several different angles, and I would like to make a strong appeal to the Enhedslisten not only to focus on the economy, but also to see that there is inequality in health, that there is inequality in education and that there is inequality in what it is for opportunities that life offers, even in a well-developed society like ours.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601100831	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601100833	I do not think that this has been just about economic inequality on our part, but economic inequality is an important issue, including for the issues of equality in health and equality in education. I can make the question more specific. I'm in on everything else, but what we saw when it was sir. Bjarne Corydon and Mrs Helle Thorning-Schmidt, who had the power of government, were unfortunately leaving a Denmark which was more economically unequal than the Denmark that they took over. I think it has surprised a lot of people that this was the development that we saw. That is why I think there are a lot of people who would like to know what the objectives of a future social democratic government are. That is why I would like to have a very clear answer to the question: will it be the aim of a government headed by Mrs Mette Frederiksen to leave Denmark less economically unequal than that which is taken over?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601100924	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601100925	Well, there's good momentum in the hall right now. I am delighted to hear Enhedslisten's rapporteur talk about a future social-democratic government. Then we have gone further than when I read newspapers earlier in the day. So it is good that we are developing and that things are moving forward positively. We've reached that in just 20 minutes, so think what we can spend the rest of the day doing. It will always be the aim of a social democratic government to reduce inequality. It always will be.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601100955	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601100958	Thank you, and thank you for an exciting speech. I think it was nice to hear that the rapporteur just mentioned the public employees, and also the need to reduce bureaucracy and increase management and self-management in the work being done. Then, of course, there were things on which we are deeply politically divided, and that is also the case with various political parties. Something that I noticed, and which I was very pleased to hear, was the words about the green transition and how we actually see that green conversion creates jobs, for example with the Lindøværft, as the rapporteur mentioned. So I would like to know whether the rapporteur agrees that it is precisely because we have long-term focussed on research, on education in the green area, on supporting the good little green ideas that then grow, on the knowledge that grows, and that there is a real need for us to turn our ambitions back up in everything that precedes the great green solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601101057	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601101058	I really believe that if we really want the green transition in Denmark, it is composed of a lot of different things: research, the interplay between the business community and what is going on in the research, the basic level of education and training. Because if we're gonna keep leading, we're gonna have to have the most talented employees. And I can hear when I come to the port of Hirtshals, where you are just pioneering ferry transport, in a cleaner and more environmental way than you are elsewhere in Europe, you can already see that you are going to lack skilled labour. It is indeed the skilled Dane who is actually responsible for the green transition in production. So there are many different things. I think that what is most important in this discussion is that we want it; it is that we dare believe that what is one of Denmark's strengths may also be so in the future, and that, moreover, this is what enables us to provide jobs for very many different types of employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601101203	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601101206	Thank you. This is also where we can then say that we will have to invest even more in continuing training, further training, lifelong curiosity, which means that we are constantly raising the level; every time we get new knowledge, we also raise the practical level. So I am glad to hear that the rapporteur agrees that this is something that we must also focus on, that is, the level of knowledge and competence of the unskilled, for the researcher, in other words, all the way around to strengthen the green transition, which is where we are going to see the jobs, so thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601101237	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601101238	I think we are in complete agreement here, and I also believe that, in relation to our education policy at all, we have to recognise that the days when you could take an education when you were young and then build an entire working life on it are probably coming to an end and that a great many, whether you are a skilled person or you have higher education, need to improve your skills throughout your life, because the demands on the labour market are so great and so extensive. So education policy, if we want to grow, and if we want to create more jobs, maybe that is the most important thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601101312	Sir. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601101315	In Mrs Mette Frederiksen's speech, I made a very important point that we are in danger of facing a shortage of labour. I think it is absolutely crucial when companies decide to expand their production or facilities in Denmark, that they have a certainty that they have the manpower they need, otherwise it will be more attractive to place jobs in a place where there is some of what we jointly achieved in the previous government was to make it easier for companies to attract foreign labour, and so I would just like to ask quietly whether the initiative that now, with private legislative proposals in the Parliament, makes it harder for companies to raise the threshold for the much-used job card scheme will not contribute to the problem of labour shortages, which Mrs Mette Frederiksen herself did in her speech quite rightly?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601101408	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601101409	I think that some of what we did together, which was really wise, was to ensure that the global companies that are in Denmark and need the highly specialised global workforce can get it easier. That is also what we are signing up for, by the way. We've debureaucraticized, we've made some things easier. It goes without saying that if LEO Pharma, located in my backyard out in Ballerup, is to remain among some of the best in the world, they must also have access to the best labour available. But that is exactly what matters. The belief, too many places, that as long as we expand the supply of labour, we solve the problems is simply too unsophisticated in the world in which companies are to compete today. After all, it is access to the right workforce with the right qualifications, whether it is a labour force we attract from outside or whether it is our own workforce that is important. For me, the supply of labour is infinitely irrelevant if the job supply does not have the qualifications that companies demand. It is surely the qualitative discussion that we need to travel much more than the one we have been listening to for some years now.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601101515	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601101516	Thank you for that sophisticated answer. The question was actually whether it would make it easier or more difficult to raise the threshold and whether it would contribute to the problem of labour shortages. What is at the heart of this is precisely the job card system and the limit on the amount, because it allows companies to assess whether they need labour. It is people who have therefore the crucial thing here, who it is to decide what it is that companies need. In this case, I would just like to point out that the draft law itself contributes to the problem that Mrs Mette Frederiksen put on the agenda to make it harder to provide the labour we are in danger of missing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601101604	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601101605	Then I think we should just get into a discussion of what kind of labour we want to attract, for example. from Bangladesh and India because it is the citizens of third countries that we are talking about here. I am therefore of the fundamental conviction that when it comes to the unskilled and skilled and the skilled part of our labour market, it is a task that we must be able to carry out even in Denmark. In addition, we have access to the entire European labour market. The type of labour I want to attract from the United States or from Bangladesh is the highly specialised labour force, and it will still be possible to do so, even if we have made a regulation of the threshold.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601101638	Thank you. Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601101642	Thank you. After all, there were a lot of subjects that were tempted to follow up, but I will now take a new one. After all, high school reform is currently under negotiation and we are talking about admission requirements for high school. Now we are some people who believe that in the field of academic education we must demand academic knowledge. I understand, then, that the Socialists are having a very difficult time with an admission requirement of 4. Now it is the case that somewhere today it is already in a decree on the preparation of education in the eighth grade, which came into force under the previous government, namely that the pupils have the professional qualifications if they, among other things, are able to do so. have obtained at least 4 on average of the position characters given in the 8th grade. The vocational schools themselves point to what they have been doing now that it is natural that there is a higher grade requirement for high school. Then it's just that I have to stand back and wonder. Is it mere stubbornness or what is doing that the Socialists will not accept a claim of 4? I mean, should we make it worse? Should we make the level of upper secondary education worse, or should we not take and make academic education a real academic education?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601101753	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601101754	This is not about stubbornness, but it is perhaps one of the greatest ideological differences in Danish politics: whether we want an education system that closes doors to young people coming from homes where there are no strong educational traditions, or whether we want an education system that opens doors. After all, I come from the part of Denmark where there is no strong tradition of taking an education, and I know that the prerequisite for many to break the negative social heritage in terms of education is that you have the opportunity to enter a hf and that you have the opportunity to use that hf education to move on from there. I also know that some of the young people who leave our primary school with low grades often do so because the conditions for upbringing are more difficult there than elsewhere in Denmark. Once they get into a youth education, get the comrades, get the profits, then they can actually become some of the very best. So don't close the door to Danish youth. Unfortunately, that's what some of you are planning.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601101848	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601101851	Now I have taught myself in the Danish primary school for 10 years, and the worst thing you can do for young people, the worst thing you can offer students, is not to have expectations of them, not to make demands on them. That's what we're gonna do. There's a long phase in this reform. If it is already stated in an announcement today that you should have an average of four in order to attend the general high school, I would ask: why is it that you do not have a strong professionalism? Why is it that we have to make professionalism worse? Why should we make professionalism worse in Denmark? Why do we have to make high schools worse? Isn't it a good signal to send to the young people to say: you must pull yourselves together and tighten up if you want to go to a secondary education, otherwise you must go to something else, and no matter what education you choose, it's just as well that you take an education?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601101935	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601101936	That is, in fact, the good thing in a final debate: then the words are also spoken directly. It is therefore a matter of tightening up. Thinks sir. Søren Pape Poulsen is not that there is a difference between the conditions under which we grow up in this society, that there is a reason why everyone does not go the straight way, and that if you have grown up in a place where there are no educational traditions, where there is no one to back up and where there is no role model to reflect in, it can be harder to take an education than if you have grown up somewhere in Denmark where it is the most common? And when we have created hf, which is by the way a socialist invention, it is precisely because we want all children and young people and adults in this country to have exactly the same opportunities to realise their potential. We should not destroy that opportunity.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601102017	Thank you. And then it's sir. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601102021	I listened to the speech by the Socialist President with great interest because I listened to what the Socialists think about asylum policy. I think it has been a bit fluctuating what has been heard from the Socialist side. And the icing on the cake was when the Folketing dealt with the issue of the rejection of asylum seekers on the very border of safe countries. The DF basically believes that we should use our border controls actively, which means that if we come from another safe country and seek asylum in Denmark, we must return the asylum seekers in question to the other safe country, and that is Germany. And I wonder why the Socialists, if they want to pursue a strict immigration policy and asylum policy, cannot support that proposal. That is why I would like to ask Mrs Mette Frederiksen: are we going to see another line from the Socialists here in the future? Because if we do not support such proposals, we will not have a strict immigration policy in Denmark ever.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601102123	Here you go, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601102126	I think the questioner in his introduction forgot to tell us that the government does not support the proposal either. I am in favour of strict immigration policy, and I am of the very clear conviction that there are limits to how many we can help in Denmark and in Europe if we are to make our own societies work. However, it is clear that the discussion and subsequent decisions are, of course, taking place within the framework of international rules of the game that are now in place. And that is why, in the autumn, together, we tightened up the Danish asylum policy so that we could deal with the flow of refugees that was then. Whether or not we need further initiatives will be shown by time. I think it is extremely important to maintain that we should not accept more people in Denmark than we can integrate, and that integration does not go well enough. But just as right this, I think, if I may be so free, that the Danish People's Party owes an answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601102231	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601102232	Actually, I don't think I got the answer to the question. It is the case that the Socialist Group chairman, Mr. Henrik Sass Larsen has said that we must have a limit on how many asylum seekers we receive. Okay, so let's introduce a line like that. The question to Mrs Mette Frederiksen is simply: how is it to be administered if we do not have border controls, if we have border controls, reject people and send them back and say that they cannot get in here? There you have to use the opportunity to send people back to another safe country, that is to say Germany. How does Mrs Mette Frederiksen think that it will work if we do not use the opportunity proposed by the Danish People's Party, but to which the Social Democrats say no?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601102313	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601102314	Yes, but it goes without saying that if we are convinced that there are limits to how many of us can come here with a non-Western background, if integration is to succeed, then it would also be natural to set a ceiling. That is, of course, what we have jointly asked the government to investigate, including in the case of schools and in the case of residential areas. If it is not going to work as usual in Denmark, i.e. that it is the exposed residential areas that it is the schools that have already been challenged, that it is the jobs where the most unskilled people are going to again take up the largest part of the integration task. So we are happy to start the discussion, but of course we are sticking to the debate and I think we are obliged to have the discussion within the international rules of the game.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601102356	Then it's mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601102400	Thank you. When one hears the speech of the Social Democrats' President, one is so little confirmed by the fact that there is a social democracy when you sit in government and another social democracy when you are in opposition. Because it is kind of special to follow, for example. The discussion with the Radicals on whether it is 31 or 45 facilitations in the field of foreigners, and then the announcement that we are hearing now, when the first thing that the government in which Mrs Mette Frederiksen sat until 111⁄2 months ago did, was to relax the expulsion rules and remove the ceiling on the children's cheque that the VK government had introduced, and when we can then hear that today you are being offended if there is one who can get 17 of her children to Denmark and full children's checks. This, therefore, follows on from what my good colleague, Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen asked, because there was a discussion about whether the overall picture, the total package that you get when you come to Denmark, does not matter. And I therefore miss a clear answer from the Socialist President to the question of what will be done about the integration service, which means that if you come to Denmark and get asylum, you will have the same economy as we offer to our young people when they study in Denmark. There I understood that the Socialist President was very concerned about the children, but what do the Socialists think about the benefits of integration? Do you want to preserve it or do you want to abolish it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601102521	Here you go, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601102523	Well, I'm of the opinion that there's a connection. There is a connection between the rules we have in Denmark and how the flow of refugees moves. I think that is also now widely known. It just can't stand alone, because it goes without saying that when people are sent on the run, they run from something, not to anything. And then something happens along the way, we know once the smugglers get in the picture. That is why we are not alien to discussing the asylum area as an overall complex, and we did so in the autumn too. It just does not change the fact that there is a challenge with regard to children, because with all due respect for the initiative taken by the government on the integration of refugees into the labour market, I find it hard to see what mechanisms it is today that should make everyone get to work, all the time we have been incredibly bad at getting people into work so far. We need to get better, but I am not sure that everyone gets to work, and that is why there is a need to take care of the children. We are very willing to discuss, including with the current government, how to ensure that no children are caught.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601102632	Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601102634	It was a long talk, but it wasn't an answer. Do the Socialists believe that integration benefits are right, or do they think they are wrong? Are you going to maintain it, or are you going to abolish it, so that when people come to Denmark, they get full cash benefits, that is, a significantly greater benefit than what we offer our young people at the SU? It is relatively simple to answer: will the social democracy maintain the benefits of integration, or will it be abolished?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601102704	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601102705	Yes, but now all you have to remember is that there was actually a debate on the benefits of integration, where we brought in to the table, that a consideration had to be given to the children, and that we have to have an eye on how children grow up in Denmark. It was the government that did not want the debate that did not want the conversation and the talk. When it comes to the concrete, we will be doing our job when we approach a choice, how we deal with the individual elements. There may be a long time for an election. We know that the government plans to spend money on tax cuts in the autumn, and that is why we are not getting any closer at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601102743	Then it's mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601102746	I'd like to follow up on the answer to Mr. Anders Samuelsen and bring some facts into the debate. According to standard methods of calculation, lowering or abolishing registration fees is one of the best ways to achieve employment. I understand that, in 2011, the Social Democratic Party switched to using common methods of calculation, and what we are hearing today from Mrs Mette Frederiksen, with the answer given, is that common methods of calculation are again being abandoned. Because you try not to answer whether ordinary people will have to pay more for their cars if the Social Democrats get power. Is there any intention to raise the registration fee again, and will it be recognised that standard methods of calculation suggest that it is very good for employment to reduce registration fees?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601102848	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601102850	Well, this isn't a question of common methods of calculation. It is a matter of moving into reality. Because we can sit and try to organise economic policy in Denmark on the basis of philosophies developed by the Liberal Alliance, but we can also move out in reality. And the reality is that Danish economy is in the trail. We lack progress, we lack growth, and what is demanded from virtually all companies when they move out there is labour. There is a fear of overheating in terms of access to labour, access to the right skills. Access to capital is required to invest, and then there is a demand that we in the Folketing support the places where Denmark is strong. I have heard no one other than the Liberal Alliance calling for the registration fee, and therefore again: it was a wrong decision in the financial law negotiations, because we could have got more jobs by taking a different decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601102955	Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601102957	I should now like to welcome the citizens and say that they are very satisfied. They've never bought more cars than they do now. Then Mrs Mette Frederiksen still does not answer. I really think that Mrs Mette Frederiksen should be congratulated on her ability to speak out, but will the Socialists raise the registration fee? And do the Socialists recognise that, as pointed out by Bjarne Corydon, the wise men and the Ministry of Finance say that abolishing the entire registration tax would have an employment effect of 10,000? So do we recognise common methods of calculation, and are we planning to increase registration fees?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601103037	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601103039	I have already replied to that last point. Yes, I do, because there are many things we would have done differently from the current government. At the same time we have said, and I repeat this, that we will take over a Denmark where Denmark stands on that day if and if we may be entrusted with government responsibility again. And, of course, we are making up what decisions we are going to change. We can discuss calculation methods from here to some end time. My years of experience in Danish politics just tells me that you can't drive a country on theory. We must ally ourselves with reality and the reality of Danish business is different from that of the Liberal Alliance when we hear the Liberal Alliance talk unilaterally about a registration fee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601103122	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601103127	Thank you. I would like to follow up on what Mr. Peter Skaarup asked about asylum policy. The Socialists do not support the proposal that asylum seekers should be rejected at the border, and some of us find it difficult to understand. Why is that proposal not actually supported? If you wanted to limit the influx to Denmark, if you wanted to set a ceiling on how many asylum seekers can enter Denmark and apply for asylum, you also have to have some tools to do so. We are doing what so many parties are doing in here, hiding behind conventions and saying that we really want to, but we cannot because of the conventions. Is it because the Socialists really want to support it, but are concerned that it violates the conventions? If that is the reason, should we not start looking at changing the conventions?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601103205	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601103207	I think it is important to make it clear from the outset that this is not a matter of hiding behind the conventions. It is a question of us being parties, and that is, I must understand, also the current government party that actually wants to comply with Denmark's international obligations, whether it is about human rights or other matters. And we have a great advantage, both as a population and as a country, in that there are international rules of play. We do, not least when we're as small a country as we are. So for me it is not a question of hiding behind conventions or not, it is a question of defining what kind of framework it is in which we can discuss Danish asylum policy, and that is the framework defined by the international rules of the game. Then we must be able to navigate it as Folketing as well as possible. We have made a number of tightenings together, and I think that has been wise, because, as I said before, I am of the clear conviction that there are limits to how many we can integrate into Denmark, and therefore the whole discussion about a ceiling is of course also relevant.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601103308	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601103311	[Sound emission]... a lot of people who are cultivating our obligations to the conventions, but we also have an obligation to Denmark, and it must, after all, come as the first. The Socialist Group chairman, Henrik Sass Larsen, has said that the Social Democrats will do everything they can, and that is quite a lot, so as to limit non-Western immigration, but the Social Democrats will not reject asylum seekers at the border. Will you set a ceiling on how many people can then enter so that when you reach that ceiling, you start rejecting asylum seekers at the border? When you want to do everything possible to limit non-Western immigration, it leaves a certain amount of room for manoeuvre in making proposals for austerity, which you must expect the Socialists to support in this Chamber. So if we do not want to support the proposal to reject asylum seekers at the border, what are the Socialists' own proposals to further reduce immigration?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601103353	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601103354	There are two levels in this. One is that the concrete discussion we can have in Denmark about how we ensure that we pursue both an asylum policy and an alien policy compatible with Danish society, both in terms of gender equality, that we do not want parallel societies and that there is no more to come than we can integrate into our labour market. Alongside this, there is a European international discussion on how to deal with the refugee crisis at a more general level, and there I think that one of the challenges with the Danish People's Party is that there is no real support for the fact that we are actually making an effort in the neighbourhood, because I think that most of us could agree that we want fewer people to be sent across the Mediterranean, but that requires that conditions in the neighbouring regions, such as Jordan and Lebanon, are improved, and that requires some resources on our part.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601103443	The next brief remark is from Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601103446	Thank you, and thank you for your speech. After all, our two parties, together with the rest of the opposition, have waged a strong fight against the government's proposals on the cash aid ceiling and the 225-hour rule. I am pleased with that cooperation and I would like to thank you for it, although unfortunately we did not get through with it. I am pleased that we agree that this is a terrible piece of legislation, which will only have one consequence: thousands more poor and unhappy families. It is also legislation which undermines the security of employees. After all, there can be only one fair answer to it by the opposition, namely that we jointly promise to abolish that law as soon as we get a majority in favour of it. The Socialist rapporteur would not be involved in this when we dealt with the matter in the Folketing. So now I would like to ask Mrs Mette Frederiksen, as party leader and as Prime Minister candidate, whether she will help promise the many people who are affected that we will abolish the ceiling on cash aid and the 225-hour rule as soon as we get a majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601103547	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601103549	I would like to make it very clear, and it may save a lot of follow-up questions, that I am not standing here and making a lot of unfunded promises today, and I will not do that in a month or six months' time either, because the fact is that we do not know what kind of economy we would have to take over if we were to be entrusted with government responsibility again. We have voted against the ceiling on cash benefits because we believe that there are some problems, not least for children, and we have also seen that it has hit some of our groups, for example. some with functional impairments. And I think there will be social problems as a result of the fact that some people simply cannot afford to pay their rent. But to stand here today and make promises in a large number of areas without knowing what kind of economy we might be able to base a future government on, I will of course not be able to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601103635	Sir. Finn Sørensen for the second round.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601103638	Now I haven't recounted a whole range of areas. I have mentioned an area where together we have waged a good fight and where we are very much in agreement that this is something terrible that the bourgeois people have done. At the same time, it is a restoration of some poverty benefits, which we agreed under the previous government to abolish. That was one of the very first things we ever did. So I don't understand what the problem is. Why can't we together light a little light in the darkness of the many people who are affected by this? Is it because it costs money? Is it because people are afraid that the bourgeois people are using the money for tax cuts, and then we cannot afford it? Or is it because you do not want too many stones on the road to cooperation with the Left on economic policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601103724	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601103726	However, it became more and more expansive as the questioner came down from the series of questions. The answer is the simple one that I gave before, namely that I am not standing and making a lot of unfunded promises. Nor do I believe that this is a proper way of conducting the discussion. Before I discussed the green transition with the alternative, and I know Enhedslisten well enough to know that although only the cash aid ceiling is mentioned, the list of wishes for improvement tends to be somewhat longer. Therefore, we need to take things in the right order. We have a government that has announced that the money will be spent on tax cuts. We are against this. Our priority is to create jobs, to give priority to our welfare and to make the Danes skilled. That is what our priorities are, and that is where the discussion must be taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601103813	The next brief remark is from Mr. Marcus Knuth, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601103817	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to acknowledge the fine cooperation we have had in the area of asylum, with the Social Democratic Party, on a large number of the tightenings we have made, however, not in the area of integration benefits. That is, of course, a pity, but given that all the other parties in the red bloc have been thundering against our asylum restrictions, my question is: should the Social Democracy in the very distant future again lead a government supported by the red bloc, how can the Danes feel confident that red blocs do not simply rewind all these asylum restrictions and we will again become a refugee magnet? I would remind you that Søren Østergaard has said on the question of a future immigration policy: of course there will be another immigration policy, for which we are the guarantor. It was said less than six months ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601103907	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601103909	Now I think that Søren Østergaard is a contraction of the Radical Left and the Enhedslisten I assume that it fits the subject very well, you might say. Well, I can only express myself as I have done before: well, I am of the clear conviction that we will have to pursue an asylum and alien policy in Denmark that is compatible with Danish society. I do not want parallel societies; I do not want women in Denmark who are not equal; I do not want girls who grow up with fathers and uncles who control their bodies or their future; I want a society where both men and women go to work and where the employment rate among ethnic minorities is as high as it is with Danes. The prerequisite for success is that we have control of how many people come here. That is the policy we stand for. And I want to say this quite frankly: I think I can work together, and we can work with, for example, the Enhedslisten on many things, when it comes to combating social dumping and the development of a fairer Denmark, but I do not see strong cooperation with, for example, Denmark. The unitary list of foreign policy. For this reason the differences are too great and that is what will form the basis for my further progress.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601104017	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601104019	Sorry, I meant, of course, sir. Morten Østergaard before. But that is strange, because if you look back to 2011, Mrs Helle Thorning-Schmidt said precisely that if she came to government, there would be no relaxation in foreign policy. This is a very similar situation today. And what happened? Well, according to Mr. After all, Morten Østergaard had 45 relaxations on everything from family reunification to social benefits; the whole palette was relaxed. How do we know today that it is not exactly the same song that Mrs Mette Frederiksen brings here, that is that it will not be relaxed, and then it will happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601104057	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601104100	One might say this in that reality has overtaken all the discussions that exist in European countries, and one can just look at our neighbouring countries to see how incredibly bad things can happen when one has no control over one's foreign policy. And it goes without saying that I am not going to bring Denmark into an experiment whose conclusion cannot be written in advance, in this field because the problems are too big. I would also like to take this opportunity to report a dispute with the block-political philosophy developed under Mr Beazley's motion for a resolution. Anders Fogh Rasmussen up through the '00s. If and if we are entrusted with government responsibilities, we will of course cooperate with the red parties on something • it is the green transition; it is the development of a more socially equitable Denmark • but when it comes to foreign policy at home in relation to the number, I think we will work together, among other things. with the Left Party. When it comes to helping in the (fourth vice-president Now time has passed) neighbourhoods, I think that the parties to the left of the Social Democratic Party are more visible than the Left Party is. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601104158	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. We will not be able to make any more brief comments to the rapporteur for the questioners, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, the Socialists. That is why we are moving on to the next rapporteur, Mr President. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601104220	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Prime Minister for the final statement, it is well named, in which the Prime Minister also mentioned some pointers, and it is always good to have some pointers to go for. But I have to say at the beginning of my speech that there is one thing that has overshadowed everything in this assembly that we are now discussing, and that is the refugee and migrant crisis. It has left its mark on everything we have done in this Parliament. It has left its mark on everything that the Danes have in fact dealt with in relation to politics. The Prime Minister also mentioned that we remember the pictures of migrants walking on motorways. I also believe that many remember the pictures of the policemen who came running behind, not to get these refugees and migrants off the motorways, but to ask if they should have no water, because if you had to go all the way to Sweden, you would need some water. It showed a little about the Danish society how the readiness was to help these people with shelter at night, eating, power to various iPhones and then to move forward on their journey afterwards. But it may also bear witness to something that we need to discuss in such a concluding debate as the one we have today: what is refugee policy? What is refugee policy supposed to be about? When, in general, are you a fugitive when you walk through one country after another, where there are peaceful conditions? Is it reasonable that you get to Denmark's borders and can pass them without any control and then walk up on the Danes' motorways and just be offered lodging and power for your iPhone? I think these are questions that we will have to ask today during the final debate. These are questions that we need to discuss with ourselves, and if we do not think it is reasonable we do not think in the Danish People's Party that it is reasonable then we must do something about it. The other side of this whole debate is what TV 2's documentary broadcast revealed earlier this spring, when they discovered how in parallel societies in Denmark people live entirely outside the ordinary law and law, outside the standards and values that we have in Danish society and which we think should apply. In this parallel society one is taught and trained in stoning, in wife violence, in acceptance of Sharia law, etc. That is the kind of thing I think we should discuss in such a final debate. If we do not think it is fair that this is the case in Danish society, then we must do something about it. We've seen these parallel societies breed terrorism. Some of the terrorist acts that have been in Europe have been based on people who have actually grown up in these parallel societies. So it has not been people who have come from outside, it is people who in our society have had a hatred for the society in which they grew up and who are developing the most extreme, as it is when you are willing to commit a terrorist act in Paris, Brussels, Copenhagen. We're not gonna put up with this. We have to deal with this. We will have to discuss this in a final debate, because if we do not want to put up with it, then we must do something about it. It's a troubled world we live in. The Middle East is on fire. Yesterday, the United States issued a warning to the Americans against going to Europe this summer. There is an EM in football in France. I think this is something that has many people's attention, including mine at least, and also many Americans who may be thinking of travelling to Europe. Imagine, we are at the point where the Americans are expressing a concern about whether you can go to Europe and take part in these great events. Why? Because there's a risk of terror. If we look a little more at the domestic conditions, we can see that this whole challenge we're facing costs a lot of money. So it is a value conflict, but it is also an economic challenge. When we get a message from the Ministry of Finance about spending of 48 billion. kr. Over the next 3-4 years, as a Dane, I think, you can think back to an election campaign last summer, where we discussed whether there were 3 billion. kr. every year to do well to expand our welfare society by 3 billion. kr. And then there is a debate about whether there are 48 billion. kr. to be reserved over the next 3-4 years for the refugee and migrant situation we have seen. In fact, it is grotesque, and some people have already discussed it this morning, that 4.4 billion. kr. of our development aid goes to help refugees in Denmark. It was better, however, that the 4.4 billion. kr. was used to help refugees in the neighbourhoods close to their homeland, but it is clear that since the money cannot be spent twice and we also want to develop the Danish welfare community, we spend part of this development aid money on helping refugees in Denmark. However, if we pursued a consistent refugee policy which meant that we helped in the neighbourhood and did not turn refugees into immigrants here in Denmark, then we could of course spend more money on helping refugees in their neighbourhood, where we are helping much more for the same money. When we spend so much money, some people are quite justified in asking if there is any money for the near welfare, for the core welfare. We want a top-class hospital service. We want treatments for the Danes when they get sick, as we can really be familiar with. We would like to have an elderly care so that the elderly do not have to worry about whether there is now the care and care that they need. When we become demented, as the Prime Minister rightly said, where you will need help to such an extent that there will be more people in the future, can you afford it? Is there any money for a police force that is present and that creates security for Danes all over the country, or are we in a situation where we have to say that there are so many bills being drawn on the refugee and migrant situation that no, we did not have enough room for that? After all, in the 2016 Finance Act, we have had room for it. That is where we have set aside 2.4 billion. kr. more to health. A billion has been set aside. kr. the elderly, which at least has a net effect of 0.5 billion. kr. extra to the municipalities, which you can use for extra care for the elderly. We've got 2 billion set aside. kr. more than four years to the police to get more police officers trained, and we want more to be done. These are, of course, necessary steps to ensure our core welfare as well. But I must also say that it is necessary to sort out the refugee/migratory situation so that we can also afford and accommodate the necessary expansion of our core welfare, care for the elderly, hospital care and so on in the coming years, as we will. That is why the Danish People's Party and there are some people in this Chamber who may think that we are doing this all too often... constantly talking about this challenge and asking the parties of the Danish Parliament to contribute to really achieving some results. When we look at what results are to be achieved, we think there is one place where we would like to send a worried warning signal. There is a large majority in this Parliament, and that includes both the Left and the Social Democratic Party, which says that those people who can, by their own efforts, come to Denmark, perhaps by means of, I would have almost said, pointed elbows and by affording people smugglers, must have a permanent stay in Danish society. I know that it is not according to the law that they should have a permanent stay in Denmark, but it is in practice. When you make a tripartite agreement on a two-year so-called Igu programme, which is dealt with by the third party on Friday, after which they will immediately earn the right to unemployment benefits in Danish society, it is difficult for an Syrian to understand that when there is peace in Syria on some scale that allows them to return, they will have to return. Once they have just earned the right to unemployment benefits in Danish society, there are probably some who think that it is a strange message that you now want them to go home and think: No, we do not think we will. We'd rather stick around. And then most Danes say, "Isn't that what's happened so many times before?" All these people who have come to Denmark just stay in Danish society. Is that what we want? Is that what refugee policy is supposed to be about? Or should refugee policy, as I said at the outset, be aimed at helping temporarily and helping them back when possible? It will also help us to manage the economic challenges better, and this will help us to better afford proper care for the elderly in the long term, for a proper hospital sector, for better and safer police and so on. etc. I must also say something about the EU system, because there is a lot going on on on the big political stage in the European Union. I know that many people refer to the European Union as domestic policy. We in the Danish People's Party have not quite come to that yet. The fact is that there are a great many people in Europe who are deeply sceptical about what is happening at EU level and about centralisation. Every time Danes and other people are asked about the EU, they tend to say stop. The Danes did so on 3 December, when there was a "no" vote to abolish the reservation. Of course, we were very satisfied with this in the Danish People's Party. What is Britain doing here on 23 June when there is a vote? Do they vote in favour of continued membership, but on new grounds that they must be able to decide more for themselves? Or are they voting 'yes' to leaving the Union, and then a process of negotiation is under way as to what will happen next? It's scary exciting. What is my claim is simply to say here today that we in Denmark must understand how to benefit from what the British are doing, whether they vote yes or no. I think it is important that there are some who spend time on it from now until the summer evening when the fire is on and we start getting the results from Britain. There are many things that could be addressed in a final debate. There is the whole education sector, which is important, vocational training which needs to be addressed. There are a lot of things I could have chosen to spend time on. I have spent the 10 minutes I have in the way I have, and I am also going to read out the following proposals for adoption on behalf of the Left, Liberal Alliance, Conservatives and Danish People's Party: The Danish Parliament notes with satisfaction that the government, together with a majority in the Danish Parliament, has ensured that it is better worth working, improved conditions of competition for Danish companies, an increase in health and the elderly, a fairer legal policy, a Denmark in better balance and significant tightening of foreign policy. The Danish Parliament notes that Denmark continues to need a policy to ensure increased growth, more private jobs, a strengthened core welfare and a strict and consistent foreign policy. The Danish Parliament calls on the government in the forthcoming Assembly to create the basis for Denmark to be a sustainable society with a strong core welfare, a healthy economy and a strict foreign policy in the coming years. • V 81).
ParlaMint-DK_20160601105315	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then there is a very long series of brief remarks, and the first is from Mr. Nicolai Wammen, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601105323	Thank you. And I would also like to thank the chairman of the Danish People's Party. Some of it, like mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl didn't spend so much time talking about treasure. But Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl made on other occasions, among others. On 20 April of this year, when the leader of the Danish People's Party said that as the economy looks, there is simply no room for tax relief. And that goes against what the Prime Minister and parties in the blue bloc have put forward. So my question to Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl is thus very simple: Does it continue to be the view of the Danish People's Party that tax relief is not possible when it comes to negotiating in the autumn?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601105407	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601105408	In other words, nothing has been put forward for us to indicate that there is room for tax relief. What the debate is about is that if you produce the economy like Mr. Nicolai Wammen, of course, knows all about what happens next? And, of course, we would like to look at that, but nothing has been put forward for us to indicate that there is room for tax relief. We have also said that if, at some point, the situation arises, that one might think that there is room for manoeuvre, that one thinks it is possible to do what we have not yet seen, we have said that then it is at the bottom, because the low incomes we think need to do something. In fact, this is also in line with what the Prime Minister also mentioned before he became Prime Minister, when it is better to be able to work, especially for those with low incomes, and that they should therefore have a little more of it when they go to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601105457	Sir. Nicolai Wammen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601105459	Well, that's an interesting answer, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl still believes that there is no room for tax relief in the autumn, but also an interesting addition, that is, if there is to be a room for manoeuvre at some point, it is at the bottom that the tax relief should be granted. And that is why, in order that there is no doubt whatsoever about the position of the Danish People's Party in this, I would just like to ask: Kristian Thulesen Dahl today gives a guarantee that the Danish People's Party will not be voting for top tax concessions when the negotiations that come in the autumn are to be completed?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601105537	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601105538	We want it to be so that when we enter a negotiating room it must be crystal clear to the Danes what we want. And it has to be, because when we leave the room with an agreement, if you reach an agreement, then of course we have to be able to measure how far we got in relation to what we walked through the door with. Our wish is not top tax relief. Does this mean that I am giving out any warranty or that I am making ultimate demands? No, we don't have the habit of doing that. But we say crystal-clearly what it is that we want to go into the negotiating room with, and we do so in order that Mr. Nicolai Wammen and the Danes can measure and weigh us on it and can assess whether they think we have done our work properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601105612	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601105616	Thank you and thank the rapporteur for his speech. I could choose to focus on a lot of things that I know we have a lot of disagreements about, but instead of a little curiously trying to ask about something that I think we are going to be working on in the future over the next few years, also because of this refugee challenge that we are facing. And that is the question of integration. Now the alternative has often been asked to deal with reality, and so I would also like to ask a few questions about reality. I know that it has been said by the Danish People's Party that we do not want to integrate, but when people come here and there is a majority in the Danish Parliament that will live up to conventions and thus grant asylum, then we have to look at how we integrate into society. And there I would like to hear a little bit about whether you have thought about how it should be done, rather than saying: we will not; we will place people in camps and send them out as soon as possible. When we face an integration challenge, how will it be approached by the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601105715	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601105716	There is nothing in the conventions that prevents us from saying that refugees are being helped temporarily. Well, it's a misunderstanding. Of course we have the right. What matters is that you help people get away from what they're running from and that they can be safe. Then there is a question from Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist's side into integration. In other words, what we want is for the individual to have a return strategy. And this also means that we fully agree that the individual, while staying here in Denmark, acquires competences. We do not want people to rot somewhere. We want to contribute to the return of those concerned as whole people with the opportunity to contribute to the reconstruction of their communities at home. What is just not accepted by us is the fact that we are capitulating and saying that, well enough, the legal basis is there for them to be here on a temporary basis, and that after a few years, again and again, but de facto, almost even before people have been granted asylum, we agree to embark on an integration process based on an assessment that they will never go anyway. That's what I think is wrong. So I would very much like to contribute to a strategy for these people to have useful tools for when they return, but that must be the objective, the aim.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601105835	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601105836	Yes, and that is what the Danish People's Party is working for, but when you see such a broad view in the Danish Parliament, there is a general view that we must integrate them into society not necessarily to send them home, but also to turn an expense into an income. So, given that it costs money, how can we also turn people into active citizens who also contribute to society? Has this impressed the rapporteur with the many initiatives we have seen from civil society, which have just tried to look at how to turn these asylum seekers into active citizens in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601105913	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601105916	Well, I think it's great when people get involved. I like committed people, and they don't have to get involved just as I'd get involved. That diversity is fine. That it can be an income, I find it hard to see. In any case, the historical experience speaks against it, although I think it is 21 integration plans since 1999, it has not succeeded in doing so, for example. non-western immigrants in Denmark to a surplus business. So this is something that is going to draw expenses with it for many, many years to come, regardless of whether you have to choose the line that a majority in this House has chosen for the time being. Then I would like to say that we are not going to give up the fight in this way, even though there is a majority in the Danish Parliament against us on this point. Until 4 January, we were the only ones fighting for border controls. Now we have border controls and it has been extended for the time being, I have seen, until 12 November. So it may be possible to get through and get parties to change their attitude. Anyone who wants to discuss it and try to move others, I'm still intact.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601110013	Then it's mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601110015	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. Now Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl this with the vote in Britain, the United Kingdom, and it will be exciting. A lot of us are excited. It is of course important to us in Denmark too. It has an impact on the whole of Europe. This isn't just about the British. But what is really the hope in the Danish People's Party? I warmly hope for a yes, and it is not only for the sake of the British, but also for our sake in Denmark. I've been over Agitating for it, too. But what is really the hope in the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601110050	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601110053	So I have not interfered in the British election campaign, as Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen obviously has, but then he will have to see if he will succeed in the elections on 23 June. We haven't interfered. We have said that we think it will bring some rapid improvements for Denmark if they vote 'yes'. We have also clearly said that we have a wish that Britain, as a sceptical EU country, stays with Denmark in the European Union and fights to reform the European Union in the direction we want. We also have a clear understanding of this if they choose to vote the opposite, and it is clear that what will then be exciting, and that is why I take it up here in the closing debate, too, is if they choose to vote for a leave. Then a long process will begin, where you will then have to negotiate what is to happen. It will be exciting also for a sceptical country like Denmark, which has reservations, etc., to see what the British achieve and where they are going to place themselves. For what can be developed there could be something new that we do not know today, which could be exciting also for a country like Denmark. That is why I believe that, whether they vote yes or no, it can open up prospects for Denmark, from which we must find out how we benefit.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601110202	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601110205	[Sound emission]... Hopefully we're talking about a yes or about a stay in Britain. This is incredibly nice for someone like me, who may be a little more silly about European cooperation than Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, to hear such a message from the Danish People's Party. This great love it may be to tighten it, but this acceptance, which I heard from the Danish People's Party, that it is a good idea to be part of European cooperation, can also be refreshing to hear for those who sit and follow home in the rooms. Because I guess that's what it is. It is surely a recognition that we are stronger together and that this interaction is better with a country like Great Britain and that Denmark, together with the other countries, belongs in the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601110246	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601110248	Now Britain is a very large country and they can certainly get agreements that are better than the agreements that Denmark can get. If, in principle, they choose to resign on 23 June, what will happen afterwards? I would just like to say quite openly here today and then I cannot quite agree with the enthusiasm, I do not know what kind of socks that is, Mr President. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen uses the fact that I am on the team that says that if Britain votes to leave the Union and gets an agreement on something that is a middle point between current EU membership and being completely out, then we should see what that is. It could also be exciting if the Danish population were then given the opportunity to decide whether it is something that Denmark might in fact find interesting to be a part of. I think we should be open to that, depending on how the British have voted, to look at it after 23 June.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601110335	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601110341	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Kristian Thulesen Dahl for the speech. After all, the Danish People's Party voted in favour of a deterioration in the post-retirement wage a while ago, which means that it will be harder to retire after a long, hard and hard job. The Danish People's Party has voted in favour of halving the benefit period. The Danish People's Party has voted in favour of the re-priority contribution, which means cuts in municipalities, and the ceiling on cash aid, which sends thousands of children into poverty. This is all something that I think the Danish People's Party has more or less voted in favour of in return for some tightenings in the field of foreigners. Now we come to an autumn when the support parties want to make top tax concessions and the Danish People's Party says that Dansk Folkeparti will not. Could it be imagined that there were signs in the sun, moon and stars that history would repeat itself, and that the Danish People's Party still prints yes to top tax concessions in exchange for something else?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601110445	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601110448	It's an exciting series of thoughts. We always go into a negotiating room to negotiate and make the most of it. But it must also be clear, and I have said this earlier today, and I would also like to say this again to Mrs Pernille Skipper, that we are going into the negotiating room, first of all, to find out whether there is any room at all for tax relief and, as I also replied, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Nicolai Wammen, I haven't seen it. No one has submitted anything to me to indicate that there is such a room for manoeuvre. Secondly, if there is, then that is what we are aiming at, and in this way we can really be helpful to a prime minister who also went to elections the same way. That's why we think we have something to have it in when we take that fight. Then it is clear that there will be a debate here in Parliament afterwards and with the Danish people, if there is any result at all from such a process, and then we will have to be judged on it and answer for it, and I am, of course, perfectly prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601110550	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601110555	Yeah, 'cause I think, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl as well as me and everyone in here knows that such a room for manoeuvre can come quickly; it can quickly be conjured up in the Ministry of Finance when it is politically convenient. We heard the Prime Minister just now boasting that billions have already been spent on tax reliefs since the government has arrived. It is money that could have gone to secure our older fellow citizens, who in some places still have to wear a diaper because there are not enough employees and who have poor food and poor care and care. Can we expect that before our older fellow citizens receive proper treatment, the Danish People's Party will throw more money at the top of society? Is that what's promised?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601110638	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601110642	Clearly, when we assess whether there is room for room for tax relief, it is after there are, of course, sufficient resources to ensure our core welfare. If that is the way that Mrs Pernille Skipper thinks, that is to say, you sit in the Ministry of Finance and you conjure up a room for manoeuvre so that you just find out that we can manage for less and that we can just have minus growth, because then it's all gonna work out, and then you suddenly have some pot of gold that you can use on the payrolls, that's not how we see it. We want to make sure that the core welfare is intact in this country. We want to ensure that the elderly receive proper care and so on. And it is only when we are confident that, if so, there will be room for tax relief.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601110719	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601110726	In fact, from a sad background, I was very pleased with a part of Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl's speech, namely the part about the asylum pressure that is on the Danish borders. After all, we share the view of the Danish People's Party that we would like to have a temporary stop for spontaneous asylum seekers in Denmark if nothing else. What is just crucial for us in the Liberal Alliance is that, while we are doing so, we ensure that we take on the commitment to help in Syria and in the vicinity of Syria. That's why I just had to make sure that you get to sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl mentions all the foreign money that is currently being spent over in the asylum system, is actually prepared to allow them, or a large part of them, to be used to help in the neighbourhood. If that is the case, I think it may be easier to find each other than it sometimes seems.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601110816	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601110820	Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll was pleased with what I said; I am so pleased with it, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll asks. It is obvious that if we have a framework for development aid that we have agreed on in the Finance Act, it is a framework that we intend to use and preferably out there where the problems are. It has not been a wish that we spend 4.4 billion. kr. This year on refugees in Denmark, we would much rather spend the money out there where the need is, and thus also demonstrate to those people who may be in the worst need and who sit out there and cannot move over six national borders, thus having no resources for it, either humanly or economically, that we prioritise them. We must also remember that it is quite natural that those who sit in the camps in the neighbourhood should return to their country of origin, of course they should, but those who have then come to Denmark, which has been the most resourceful, both economically and humanly, who have begun an integration process and are apparently going to earn the right to benefit in Danish society, and who are supposed to be some of the best to build up their homeland, are not going back home again. It's kind of striking and a little absurd. So handcuffs on that interconnection, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll just made.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601110931	Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601110933	Thank you. We also have one more thing that we are a little concerned about in connection with this. They say that you do not take anyone at all, but then we say to some of the refugees who are in the most difficult situation and maybe have spent a very long time in some of the UN's camps that we can take a small share of them to Denmark every year. There are several advantages to this. Firstly, they must choose Denmark, Denmark must choose them, and there is no family reunification because they come as a family. Is that something, too, the Danish People's Party, if you are going to make a solution with the government and others, then you could look at and then say: okay, then we are going to take a small share of these quota refugees, but in return there is a total stop to spontaneous asylum seekers? The reason I am asking is that we have tabled some amendments to a proposal tabled by the Danish People's Party here in the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601111020	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601111022	That is absolutely right, you do, and we are just taking things in the right order, because we would like to see things actually happen first, the things that are necessary to get to where you talk about how many and who you should then take. For the time being, there has been no demonstration of any real will to do so. There is talk, for example. But as long as you are not willing to put in any tools, it is not ensured that such a ceiling could be 0, while someone would say 1.000 can be implemented, and that is pure theory. That is why we want the majority first of all for there to be the tools needed for us as a nation state to be able to control this, and then I would like to sit down and have a cup of coffee on the other with Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601111107	We'll see when it's gonna be. The next one is sir. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601111115	I think there's coffee out here next door, and then the rest of us can come with us a little bit. One can warm one's heart when one hears all the concern for the world's persecuted, while the government then implements a Finance Act with the most significant cut in development aid in recent times. Nevertheless, it is good to have at least the intentions. But I was very impressed by the answer to Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen. Because Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, who is thus one of the best debaters of Things, to ally himself with both a yes and a no in England. In other words, whatever the outcome of the vote, it will be just as Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl had wanted it. Well, that's somehow a strong signal. So it is not something that we really have any influence on here in the Folketing, one might say. However, in one year's time, when we are going to have a final debate, some of us can at least hope that it will not be with an EU without Britain. The big question that I would like to ask, Mr President. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, whether it is a promise to the Danes that it will not be with a Europol without Denmark's participation. Will Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl today guarantees that the promise made to the Danes that we will continue in Europol without delay is still valid?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601111219	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601111221	What we made clear to the Danes in the referendum campaign up to 3 December was that it would be possible to maintain the link with Europol. You can do that in a number of ways. You can do this by means of a parallel agreement. We can do this by asking the Danes again in a new referendum, as we also said. We've done a little duel about this before this final debate in other situations. If we are not now ready to discuss a referendum and its terms, and how and how it is going to take place, it is because we demand that proper work be done to ensure that Denmark has a parallel agreement. We regard it as a purely political judgement whether or not to make such a parallel agreement. We don't think it's legally hard to fix. In other words, if it had been said a year ago that the British Prime Minister had come home with an agreement that could form the basis of a referendum here on 23 June for the British, people would have said that it could not be done at all; that could not be legally achieved, and how could we find out? This was done when we had to, and a parallel agreement for Denmark is also possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601111327	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601111330	I really think that, after all, the answer is commendable in the sense that I see it as confirmation that the promise stands and that, if there is no parallel agreement, there must be a new referendum. I think that is the first important result of today's debate. We can then go a little further and look a little further ahead. I just have a very clear question. I read that Mr. Peter Skaarup in an interview in Jyllands-Posten at one point said that the Danish People's Party had not taken a position on whether it pointed to the current Prime Minister in a forthcoming parliamentary election. I just want to know if there has been any progress on these considerations, so that we have an answer to that today. Or is it still something you think is out of date? I think the wording was that it is not real to take a stand now.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601111413	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601111415	I think that's the closest thing you can get to it. I am aware that the Prime Minister has not today issued a parliamentary election, nor has he announced that he is on his way to do so. We're gonna take a stand on this. We support the Prime Minister we have and we hope that we will have a very good cooperation during a parliamentary term of which three years remain. So there must be a great deal of policy and we hope that we will get a lot of good results through.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601111443	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601111448	Thank you. I think that it has been a rather sluggish year in Danish politics, to use a Jutlandic expression. I was perhaps a bit blue-eyed when I was first elected, but I had taken note of the many promises made by the Danish People's Party in the election campaign that people would continue to preserve and fight for welfare. For example, we had... In SF and Dansk Folkeparti made a joint agreement about the benefit recipients to find a good unemployment benefit, they had promised not to cut in the area of the elderly, they had promised not to change the cash benefits. What I can see now, one year later and one year wiser, is that you didn't get a good solution for the benefit recipients.At least no more money came with, as Dansk Folkeparti and SF had otherwise agreed. Large savings have been made in the municipalities. I know that the Danish People's Party in here also has many council members, so I also know that this is something they experience when they have to make budgets. The money has been spent on giving cheaper cars, giving money to private schools, and freezing the root cause. Now Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl before that one would only give tax relief once the core welfare had been ensured. I'm just gonna say, is that sir? Kristian Thulesen Dahl's view that nuclear welfare has now been guaranteed, since tax cuts, cheaper cars and money have already begun to be given to private schools?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601111605	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601111606	No, well, we've made a Finance Act for 2016, which has a real growth in the public economy, so we spend more money on our overall welfare. I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech that we have put 2.4 billion. kr. We have set aside a bill of dignity, which at any rate means that the municipalities have half a billion extras to do with, that is to say more to do with this year than last year. So, in relation to the starting point for the questioner here, which is that there are major savings in the municipalities, I would say that it is not in the first financial year for which we have had a share of responsibility. The daily allowance is mentioned, but no more money has been made available for the benefit area. The agreement we have reached with the Left and the Social Democratic Party gives 300 million more to the benefit system. It was a prerequisite for us to think that we could solve this in a good way, that more money was added, just as we had said in the election campaign, along with the SF, by the way. I'm aware that SF doesn't think, 300 million. kr. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is a good thing that we should be able to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and the Working Environment, on behalf of the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and the Working Environment and on behalf of the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and the Working Environment, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601111714	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601111716	[Sound emission]... true that no savings should be made in the municipalities. A few days ago, I was out in Assens Municipality, where Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl is a councilman. There we are considering closing schools because we need to find substantial savings. In my own municipality, Køge, where the Danish People's Party is also in power, you are sitting right now and have a savings catalogue, which is also about saving on older people, saving on schools, saving on children. And that is, of course, a direct result of the policy being pursued. When Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl says that you will only give top tax relief when the core welfare is guaranteed, does that mean that you are ready to give top tax relief now? Because that's gotta mean that mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl believes that welfare is already guaranteed. I just want to know if Mr. Keating's gonna be okay. Kristian Thulesen Dahl can give a guarantee that no top tax relief will be granted this autumn.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601111757	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601111800	We're mixing up a lot of things right now, and that's fair enough, that's how it's gonna be in a graduation debate. I just have to say that I know what's going on in the municipalities. I know that there are savings catalogues in relation to the coming years because there is a discussion about a re-prioritisation contribution and what should happen to it. I'm just saying that the first year, i.e. 2015-16, when the Danish People's Party has again participated in Danish politics, the municipalities have got more money to do well with than they had last year. This contrasts with the time when we had a social democratic government with the Radicals and at some point also with the SF. During that period there was minus growth in the municipalities. Overall, during that period the municipalities got less to do well with. Now, I almost said the Socialists from power, and now the municipalities are getting more to do with. It's just a fact.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601111845	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601111848	Thank you. It was actually an exciting debate. I hope that Mr. Jacob Mark will ask me some questions about it too when I come on in due course. But that's not what we're talking about right now. I agreed with most of what the rapporteur said. It is probably not a secret to anyone that the Danish People's Party and the Conservative People's Party have different views on how public sector spending should grow. Let it go. We probably agree that both police, defence, care for the elderly and so on. is part of the core welfare. So do we not agree that the prerequisite for achieving this core welfare is that we are constantly doing our utmost to create a framework for a good and healthy and strong business that earns the money, so we can afford this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601111936	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601111938	Yes, we are in complete agreement on that. Well, we know where the money comes from. It is not us here in the Folketing who serve them home to the country. There are companies that do that, as with some skilled employees they produce some good products that can be sold, and that is the export that allows us to have some value creation in Danish society. So we are fully aware of that. Therefore, it is also important that we have some growth in Danish society. And of course we are also happy when, as yesterday, such a little positive peep in on a bigger growth in the Danish economy than was expected. This is important, and if there is some optimism in this way, it is very good. I think that part of that optimism, among other things. I would like to point out that the Commission is not in a position to accept the amendments tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. I think we also share that view, including with regard to the situation of refugees and migrants, who, after all, have kicked our legs completely below all of us, compared to what we thought there was to do well with etc. It's a must to get it under control so that you can really do everything else.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601112038	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601112041	I fully agree with the latter. It has been a huge expense that has come. I take it as a commitment to continue to fight to strengthen Danish companies. It may be that later this year we can see whether further steps can be taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601112100	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Magnus Heunicke, Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601112108	Thank you. I have really tried to listen to the President of the Danish People's Party trying to answer the many questions that have gradually been raised about what is the Danish People's Party's position on top tax concessions, as all the other parties in the blue block that you are in have said should be on the agenda. There have even been parties that have made the ultimate demands and have said that if there are no top tax reliefs at 5%, I think we will have no blue government at Christmas time. So it has to be on the agenda this autumn, and all sorts of people have tried to ask about it, and the President has tried to move a little like a cat on a hot tin roof and so tried to dance around there, but it is getting more and more hot for the Danish People's Party, because we need an answer: Will the Danish People's Party be able to vote in favour of an agreement that lowers the top tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601112200	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601112203	I think sir... Magnus Heunicke will be disappointed, or at least professionally will be disappointed. I don't think I will ever be able to answer that question in this final debate in a way that will satisfy Mr Beazley. Magnus Heunicke. Because we do not go into a negotiating room and set out in advance the ultimate requirements for the content of an agreement that we will, if necessary, make. We don't. I know that other parties have adopted this negotiating technique because they have actually found out that perhaps this is the way to get the most through in Danish politics when negotiating with different parties. But I would also like to say in my reply that I hope that when we get to the autumn and we have to negotiate bigger things, social democracy is at the negotiating table. It is actually striking that, at the end of the debate, we are already seeing a starting point from the Social Democrats, which is that there is no one to find. That's something weird. So, on the other hand, I would like to do my bit to ensure that the Social Democrats find their way to the negotiating table and that we discuss if there are no common surfaces we can use to get Denmark back on track in the areas where we need it and give Denmark a boost. Then it could be interesting, because then I could really ask Mr. Magnus Heunicke about the same thing, and then I would probably get the answer, that of course you are negotiating, but that in line with the Danish People's Party it is not on the basis that you want the top tax lowered either. Because it isn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601112320	Sir. Magnus Heunicke.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601112324	I think that the tin roof is getting more and more hot to jump around on, because the thing is that last time, sir... Thulesen Dahl entered a room with a blue government, they made what they called spring pack 2.0. It was back in 2009. We have received an answer from the tax minister, who says that the 100 richest Danes at the time, with what was called red wine reform in popular terms, received a tax relief per year. person of 2.7 million. kr. annual. It was crooked, so it was batting. A single pensioner received about 150 kroner. in tax reliefs per month. It was crooked, so it was battling, and it is the bias that should be a majority against this time if the Danish People's Party lives up to what has been said to the electorate. Why can we not give a concrete answer? Why can't we just say no to the top tax concessions? It's so easy to say either yes or no.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601112412	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601112415	What is marvellous is that it has been said many times that when it is believed that in 2009 a tax reform was created that was the most biased at all and that was unsympathetic and so on, why it was not changed when it came to power in 2011. Why, then, was the threshold raised for people to pay top tax, so that, in fact, the disparities with the tax reform that was made in 2012 were increased? If it was so awful, why didn't you change it? There are other parties that support social democracy on various occasions that have also asked the question today: when you are against one and the other and the third, it means that you roll it back after an election. We can't get an answer to that, can we?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601112454	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601112457	Thank you. I'd like to stay a little on the top tax issue. I do not think it is an act of malicious will when the parties have a very great interest in the Danish People's Party's position on top tax. The reason why we Social Democrats are in doubt about the intentions of the Danish People's Party is, of course, historically conditional, as Mr. Magnus Heunicke mentioned it. When the Danish People's Party was most recently a parliamentary basis for a Left-led government, you secured the majority to carry out massive tax cuts to the very richest people in Denmark with the so-called Spring Package 2.0. A reply from the then tax minister Troels Lund Poulsen made it quite clear that the reform meant that the 100 richest Danes received an average tax relief of 2.7 million. kr. a year. - Sir... Kristian Thulesen Dahl did not confirm that was the consequence of spring package 2.0?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601112548	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601112551	I am not going to try in any way to talk about examples which I suppose some have calculated and so on. I don't have any pre-conditions for that. I don't have the same numbers up here. I just want to say that there is something that really puzzles me. But let us now say that something happened in 2009 that gilded the richest, and let us now say that this is the starting point for the Social Democracy, as the Social Democracy will have the power of government in 2011. Then why don't you raise the treasure for the richest? Then why not use the majority you get in 2011 to go against the bias that was believed to have occurred in 2009? Why did they leave it in paragraph 1? Paragraph 2: Instead, why did one start raising the limit on when to pay top tax in this country, thus giving a tax relief on top of the very wealthiest, who had apparently just received an unsympathetic tax relief? Isn't there some social democrat who can give an answer to that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601112641	Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601112645	I understand that the rapporteur is returning with a counter-question, but we have had an opportunity to ask about the policy of the Socialists. So I would now like an answer from the rapporteur. Dansk Folkeparti toured during the election campaign last time with a slogan: Dansk Folkeparti you know where you have. Does the rapporteur understand that the Danes with the historical baggage that lies around giving the very richest Danes massive top tax relief can be a little in doubt about where we have the Danish People's Party, also considering that the Danish People's Party will not give a clear answer as to whether, when you come out of the negotiating room, you will vote to lower the top tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601112724	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601112727	Well, it's hard to make people happy. I have already said what the position of the Danish People's Party is. We are not going into a negotiating room to lower the top tax. We do not believe that we can find amounts for tax relief and, if we can, we believe that they should be given at the bottom. Then I have said, paragraph 2, that I think it would be appropriate for the Social Democrats to take part in those debates, to try to enter into the discussions on Denmark's future instead of here in a final debate prior to the autumn in which we are apparently going to discuss these things, almost to resign. I think that's something weird. Honestly, I think that's something weird. We stand here less than a year after a parliamentary election, and the great Social Democracy seems as if it has been completely out of touch with these things.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601112809	Then we've reached Mr. Knox. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601112816	Thank you. I will continue in the top tax trail because I find it a little difficult to get an answer. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl says that you do not make ultimate demands and that you say what you want, but that is not quite right. Well, we've heard sir. Søren Espersen is very clear that if a foreign policy were conducted without the Danish People's Party, the government would overturn. I also believe that if it were the case that we were to enter into a debate on a more lenient foreign policy, we could easily find a way of saying on the way in that door that a decimal would not be moved. However, just when it comes to top tax, it is apparently difficult to issue the same guarantees, and I think that is a pity. After all, the Danish People's Party has the opportunity to stop this, just as we had the opportunity to stop the early retirement reform. After all, there are two approaches to a debate. You can, of course, go in and try to influence it in a good way, and it may be very good in many cases, but in a situation where we are talking about whether we should spend billions to make the millionaires even richer than they are today, it was perhaps a good idea that already on the way in, you announced that the Danish People's Party will not be involved in this under any circumstances.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601112921	We're gonna need a little more quiet in the room. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601112925	I think I can now find quotes from the questioner on how to do in the context of such a debate, i.e. whether it is a good idea to set out ultimate demands in advance or not to go the longest with what you want to do. So it is just a fundamental position that we have to go to negotiations. And we maintain it, also in relation to the autumn negotiations. Is there any doubt as to what the Danish People's Party is going for? No, there is not, because I have answered that many times today and earlier. Does the Danish People's Party want the top tax to go down? No, we don't want that. If there is room for tax cuts, do we want them to be given at the bottom so that people with low incomes have a little extra to go to work? Yes, that is what we want. That is our policy. It must be crystal clear what our policy is and what our objectives are when, if we get there, we are in a negotiating room on these issues. 'Cause then sir can. Pelle Dragsted and everyone else, all the Danes, assess us on the content we come out with if we manage to make an agreement. And then we have to be accountable, just as it applies to all parties, when you enter into negotiations, for what we said, and what we might eventually have to accept in an agreement: is that satisfactory? yes or no? That is the case, and we will have the opportunity to discuss it here in the Assembly if we get that far.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601113037	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601113039	That is probably what concerns many Danes a little, because we have heard Dansk Folkeparti be very clear about what was their line, for example. It is not necessary to tamper with the pay-as-you-go, for example. should not be tampered with by the cash benefits, or that, for example, there should be: were not to be tampered with by the benefits for cash benefits recipients. And when you get out of the negotiating room, unfortunately, in many cases the opposite has been done. The Danish People's Party is not the only party that has done this. Sadly, many others have done the same. I think that is one of the reasons why many voters sometimes look at us in here with a little scepticism. That is why I would just like to make one thing clear, and I hope the rapporteur can do that. I'm sure the Danish People's Party has the handle. Without the votes of the Danish People's Party, there will be no relief from the top tax. Can the rapporteur at least confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601113128	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601113130	Yeah, I'd definitely think that's exactly the way it is, sir. Pelle Dragsted formulates it. Well, I hope there aren't all of a sudden other parties on that agenda. It would also weaken the negotiating position of the Danish People's Party enormously if it were so, and I do not see where that majority should be. So it is also that we are reasonably confident that we will get something out of it if it gets there that we are in such a debate. And then we're responsible for what we had to do. There should be no doubt about what our starting point is. We are not going into a negotiating room to ease the top tax. If there is money for tax relief, we think it should be at the bottom. It is people with low incomes who need to get a little more out of it when they go to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601113212	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jesper Petersen, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601113219	The discussion about top tax is interesting because Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl is differently open to the debate than he has been before in the spring. Just before, it seemed as if there was information on the tax reliefs in 2009, Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl was not really familiar with. But I have now taken the trouble to find the same answer as Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl should at least be familiar with, which showed that there was an annual tax relief of 2.7 million. kr. to the 100 richest Danes, and that an ordinary folk pensionist got 100 DKK. a month. To ask in another way: does Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl actually, there was a fair and fair distribution of the benefits of the tax reform?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601113311	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601113315	No, if we'd made it ourselves, it would have looked different, obviously. What is really the question to Mr. Jesper Petersen and some social democrat have to answer that today is that when you choose to pull out the 2009 reform as one of the most unsympathetic, a tax reform that gave the very richest far too much tax relief, then you have to answer what you did in 2011 when you got the power and got the majority. Did they raise the treasure again for those people? No, you didn't. What was done instead? A further tax relief was granted to them. I mean, the hypocrisy has to stop. At some point there had to be a Social Democrat standing up and explaining the context in which, in a closing debate in 2016, a 2009 reform that goes back to two parliamentary elections was the most unsympathetic. In the meantime, government itself has been exercised and nothing has been done about it. Someone has to explain the logic of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601113404	Sir. Jesper Petersen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601113408	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl chooses the tactic today that when you can't answer the question, you have to get upset. Then you stand on the platform and get all worked up, just like distracting attention, so we can talk about something else. Why can't you just answer if you think it was a fair way of doing tax policy when you last went into a room with the Prime Minister and created this extreme inequality between the richest Danes and ordinary folk pensioners? Since then, a reform was carried out in which ordinary employees were in focus. They were the ones who received the lion's share of a tax relief. The most well-paid metal workers got the same out of the reform that the most wealthy Danes did. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl is now given the seventh chance to answer whether to refuse to grant top tax relief and whether to think it was fair that the richest Danes at that time should have such a relief.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601113503	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601113505	Sir. Jesper Petersen is on rocking ground. He has simply scored a gigantic self - goal, and instead of just admitting it, he says something about arousal on the platform. I answered exactly what I was asked. Yes, I said exactly that if we had done the tax reform ourselves in 2009, it would have looked different. Yes, of course it did. Then I asked back: When what happened in 2009 was that the very richest were given too much tax relief • was the most unsympathetic thing that has happened almost in recent times, and then you have had the power of government for 31⁄2 years ago, why hasn't it been changed? Why have the same people been granted a further tax relief? That is what the Social Democrats will have to answer in the course of today's final debate. And I can promise the Social Democrats that we will come back to that question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601113547	For the time being, it is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601113549	Thank you to the rapporteur. I took note of what the rapporteur said about help in the neighbourhood. We are very much in agreement with that in the alternative. We also think we should invest here in Denmark, because we want to integrate the people who come to Denmark. However, if we just stick to it with the surrounding areas, could the rapporteur deepen the policy of the rapporteur in relation to a future financial law, namely whether we are prepared to allocate more money to the neighbourhood precisely to help there, so that we can hopefully limit the large group of people who have to flee?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601113628	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601113632	So, I would very much like Denmark to become one of the absolutely leading countries in helping in the neighbourhood. I think it has been grotesque to follow the stories that have been that there has not been enough food rations in the refugee camps, in other words that the most basic necessities have not been available. And that is because, overall, the countries have not donated enough for the work in the neighbourhood. I think it is quite logical that, when we have the policy at the same time, that is where we are helping the best, then we must also be prepared to help more there. We have been working on this in the context of the current Finance Act, but we must also work on this in relation to the Finance Act for next year. Part of the solution is, of course, that less money is spent, so that is our position on refugee policy in Denmark, and that money can then be spent, among other things. in the neighbourhoods to raise the level of Denmark's and other countries' aid there.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601113724	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601113727	Thank you for that answer. But what I hear the rapporteur say is that it is an either-or. It's not a boat-and-a-boat. The alternative is that it is a both-and-so, but I hear the rapporteur in such a way that it is a either-or. Should I understand that the rapporteur will not give more money to the local areas if money is also spent on refugees here in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601113745	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601113748	No, I recognize that it's also a boat and... We have done so with the Finance Act for this year that, although 4.4 billion has been set aside. kr. At the same time, we have focused on the fact that a greater proportion of the resources we use around the world could be used in the neighbourhoods. And we should do that again, also in connection with the Finance Act for next year. In addition, there is just the perspective in it that if you spend 1 DKK. less on refugees in Denmark, on migrants in Denmark, then you can use that crown in the vicinity, and there it bats more and helps more people. Therefore, we also see a clear opportunity for Denmark to become a leader in helping in the neighbourhoods, by converting refugee policy in Denmark into refugee policy in the neighbourhoods.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601113831	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. We will not be able to make any more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601113841	Thank you for that, President. The government must be commended for implementing its political programme. That is true, and it could have been I who had originally said it, but the words come from Mr. Uffe Elbæk, when he and his fellow Witnesses gathered for an annual meeting this weekend. Sir. Uffe Elbæk then did not stop there but continued to say that the country is led by a minority government that is doing everything wrong. Well, I'm not super agreeable with that, sir. Uffe Elbæk in. On the other hand, the words of Mr. Uffe Elbæk actually very well the view that I have of working here in the Danish Parliament since Denmark, after the election almost 1 year ago, got a new government. Even people who do not like our policy must recognise that we have been effective, that we have achieved much in short: we have got something out of hand. On top of that, it reminds me of what we went to the polls on the island as a bit of an innovation here in the 2010s. That is why the Left today can look back on a year of results. It is a step on the way to an even better Denmark. I have only 10 minutes' speaking time, so I shall not be standing here looking at the improvements and the results that we have achieved, point by point. But I would like to highlight some of those that I see as the most important, because they say something about the direction we want for Denmark. Firstly, the golden age of foreign policy facilitations under the previous government is over. We have tightened the immigration policy considerably because it was urgently necessary. We started by introducing the integration allowance at the SU level and reintroducing the principles of earning in relation to children's and folk pensions. We have done so to ensure that it is not unnecessarily more attractive to come to Denmark rather than to other countries as asylum seekers, and we have done so because we think that there should be a fair balance between having contributed to Danish society on the one hand and having access to the very generous services we have in Denmark on the other. And it's worked. While Sweden and Germany received 100%. or 130%. several asylum seekers last year, the increase in Denmark was around 40%. Since then, the rules have been tightened broadly with e.g.: new rules on citizenship, permanent residence and family reunification. We are thus continuing to contribute to the solution of the common challenge, but we must be able to keep up, and we must take care of Denmark. That is why we have set aside more money for humanitarian aid in the hot spots of the world. It is for us to see a better balance between helping people in need and looking after our own society. I welcome the fact that there is now widespread recognition of the fact that the previous government went far too far with its relaxations. That is why I would like to thank the Socialists for having helped roll back at least part of this. Secondly, we have ensured that working pays better. Today, more than three quarters of a million Danes of working age are on public support, and that is quite simply too many. Our ability to invest in core welfare and more jobs will suffer if too many of the common funds go to public support. That is why we have reinstated a cash aid ceiling and a 225-hour rule so that more people can pay better off working. We simply did not think it was reasonable that there was no cash and tangible gain from working full-time in a low-wage job compared to being on cash benefits. Thirdly, we have given companies better conditions and reduced taxes. We have cancelled the advertising fee and the five-fold NO x We have decided to make it cheaper to carry out generational change in family-owned companies, and we have made it cheaper to buy a safe family car and sit in its owner's residence through a lowering of registration fees and a freezing of the ground debt. Together with a growth package, a food and agriculture package and the relocation of state jobs, it has created a better foundation for more private jobs throughout Denmark. Fourthly, we have strengthened core welfare. We have added a total of 3.4 billion. kr. to the health and elderly area in 2016. This means that the municipalities have been given money for a more dignified care for the elderly. This means that we can reinstate a treatment guarantee and do more for older medical patients who all too often end up playing ball in the system, but it also means that we spend less money on something else, among other things. in the field of culture and development aid. It is a priority, and without the courage to take such decisions and without the courage to say that there is something more important than anything else, one gets nowhere in politics. It would be nice if you could just say that there is enough money for everything, but there isn't. Every choice involves an opt-out and asserting otherwise is simply not responsible. Now, this was a fraction of the Left's results in recent years. There are many more where they come from, for example. better legal certainty with the requirement of a court order for the supervision of the SKAT on private property, an entry ban to Syria, higher penalties for rape, full transparency of the achievements of the folk schools, the first tripartite agreement, review of inclusion in the elementary school and much more. Instead of continuing to list these results, I would like to end by thanking all the parties that have helped to make these results possible, and that is to say all the parties of the Danish Parliament, including the Alternative, despite the criticisms I mentioned before, as for example. helped to secure the housing job scheme. So we're gonna have to do something right somewhere. And I look forward to seeing that in the next parliamentary year we can reach at least as much as we have achieved this year, because we have much more in our sleeve. I am also looking forward to today's debate, and I hope it will be both lively and interesting, and we always hope so, but I already sense that the Left seems to have returned to some of the bad habits of the previous opposition period of criticising, criticising and criticising, and then criticising a little extra for the sake of good order, and that is fine. I can take that. I'm happy to be on target for everything. That's why I'm here. I would just like to recommend, for the sake of good order, that we confine ourselves to criticising what we intend to change if we now have power, as we have been watching. So if, in the usual and slightly populist way, for example, we do so. Mr President, I should like to make a few comments on this matter. And Mrs. employees can now get rid of a benefit tax of just 150 per cent. For a safe family car, I expect you to be ready to guarantee that you will change it after a choice. Otherwise, it's just empty words. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601114641	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Nicolai Wammen, the Social Democrats, for the first brief remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601114650	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteur. If you were to give style, it would be towering. The problem is that there is also content in such a speech. And the interesting thing is, sir... Jakob Ellemann-Jensen said that the government had practically failed to comply with its electoral vows. One of the promises the government made to the elections and one of the things on which the Prime Minister has said he must be judged as to whether or not the government failed is in relation to the immediate slowing down of asylum seekers. I should just like to ask the rapporteur very quietly: can the rapporteur confirm that, contrary to what the Left promised in the election campaign, there has been an increase in the number of asylum seekers who have come to Denmark during the time the government has been responsible? And if that is the case, I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether he will describe it as a failure or whether the rapporteur is satisfied with the government's efforts?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601114800	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601114803	I certainly do not want to refer to any of what this government has done as a failure, and one should be blind to not seeing that more asylum seekers have arrived in Denmark. That is what I mentioned in my speech, which was not quite meaningless, namely that the increase in Denmark has been around 40%. Compared to the countries around us, we have escaped rather graciously in Denmark. We have, of course, been particularly gracious when compared with the government that sat before, which relaxed immigration policy somewhere between 31 and 45 times. So I think we are now in a rather better position with the Left in government offices than we are with the Social Democrats and the Radicals in government offices.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601114853	Sir. Nicolai Wammen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601114856	After all, it is good to hear that the rapporteur of the Left is now saying openly and honestly in his answer that he has not lived up to what was promised in the election campaign. There has been an increase of 40%. in an area where a promise had been made there would be a fall. After all, it was the Prime Minister himself who defined four pointers, of which this was one of them; that was what the government had to measure on whether it was a success or a failure. So I guess you just have to say that in the meantime there is a failure. The rapporteur would not go that far, but the Prime Minister himself has said: we have not been a huge success as a government. I think we can all agree on this, but if it is not a failure and it has not been a huge success, what is the Liberal rapporteur's view of how the government has delivered on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601114948	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601114952	I think that is a very good illustration of the fact that Mr. Nicolai Wammen sees the world as completely black or completely white. It's either success or failure. There is simply nothing at times, either yes or no, there are no soft solutions. So this is not the way the world is, I have to say to Mr. Nicolai Wammen. So, the Prime Minister highlighted these four points on which he wanted his government to be measured. And as Mr. Nicolai Wammen was able to read in the morning paper, but then we have to say three and a half of the four points, and we have plenty of time to deliver on the rest. But we also have to recognise that Europe cracked and that we should welcome a lot of people in Denmark. There was a situation that none of us, justly, had foreseen. I can only say that if we had continued with a Socialist radical government, it would have looked very different and much more fiasco.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601115044	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601115049	Thank you. Now, of course, we had a meaningful exchange of views on the British vote here earlier, and I would like to continue a little along the same lines. Because just as I was challenged about what if it were to be a yes, what if it were to be a 'no', I also find it interesting to hear the rapporteur of the Left here today tell us what he thinks is going to happen if the British vote 'no', for example. Well, in spite of sir... Mr Ellemann-Jensen's efforts to ensure that it will be a 'yes' in the United Kingdom, I understand, interference in the election campaign over there, are also conceivable that they will actually vote 'no' and wish to leave the Union. How does Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Is it opening up prospects and opportunities, or is it going black on 24 June, if that is the result?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601115135	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601115138	I don't have to hide that I'm like Mr. Knox. Kristian Thulesen Dahl hopes that the British will vote to stay in the EU and remain part of the EU. I think it would be unhappy for the whole of Europe and also for the British, for that matter, but also for Denmark, if the British decide no longer to join. I think it will have some consequences, which I must confess I cannot really understand here and now, so I will not start to speculate about that. On the other hand, I would like to say that there are many reasons why I hope it will be a stay in, and one of them is, of course, that the British, as Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl also mentioned it, is a good big brother for Denmark to have in the EU. It is a good partner to lean on when they are a few more than we are in Denmark, and therefore talk with a greater weight. So in every way it is in Danish interest for Britain to stay in the EU.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601115228	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601115232	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen then continues the election campaign here, which he apparently has been in England and exerts. But what if it is not the case that the British follow that recommendation, but that they actually vote no? I mean, is that the kind of thing you speculate about in the Left? I think that what must be crucial to a Danish position is whether or not they vote over there or whether there is any possibility that we can do it for the benefit of Denmark. If they vote 'yes', then there are some things that David Cameron has fought home, which we can also benefit from, and if they vote 'no', then what? At any rate, I would like some thoughts to be made before St. John's Eve, so that we were really prepared to find out how we can benefit from it, also because there were some places where we have an interest in there going to be some things about indexing the children's cheques and such things that immediately fall away if the British vote to leave the Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601115323	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601115326	As Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl mentions a number of things that are in Danish interest, so I would actually recommend that the Danish People's Party join the British campaign to ensure that one stays within the Union. For our ability to use the lever that the British are in many of these areas requires you to stay there. I am not going to stand here and make myself an analyst of what happens if you vote 'no' in Britain. We'll cross that bridge when we get to it, and I really hope so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601115356	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601115404	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I would like to talk about something that the rapporteur has probably not just touched on himself. That may have been because there is such short speaking time when you stand up there. But it's about party support. After all, Denmark has been repeatedly criticised by international organisations because we are simply too weak when it comes to the rules of party support. Openness is too poor if we are to compare ourselves with other democratic countries and if we are to give the electorate a proper opportunity to keep up with the cash flows in Danish politics. Even though the rules are scarce, they are reasonably clear at a point above or below DKr 20,000.? Is that over 20,000 kroner? In support, it has to be abandoned, it's under, so you don't have to. In the last year, yes, for several years, there have been quite a few flickers, to put it mildly, on the part of the Left Members. And last, it's the finance minister who forgot 600,000 kroner. It was once the case in the Left that law is law and that law must be kept. Is it still gone like that? And how and when does the Left start to fix all these flickers?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601115514	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601115517	Law is law, and law must be kept. These rules you can then like, or you can care less about them. They must be observed by all. They must also be respected by the Left, including by the Finance Minister, by all the candidates of the Left. That is what we are trying to do. I just want to mention that things can happen. These are people we're dealing with. It is people who work voluntarily who sit in the Left Party apparatus around and have to handle some reports. There may be flickers sometimes, but we make every effort to ensure that this does not happen. We will also follow up on the fact that this is not something that needs to be done in the future. Anyway, excuse me, it's just people. We promise to do something about it. We're working on it. With regard to the international criticism which has been made, I assume that this includes, among other things: I have to say that Denmark is the world's least corrupt country. Time after time, Denmark has been declared the least corrupt country in the world. And then I could say something hard and evil about those who then sit in the organisations that criticise Denmark, but I am not supposed to do that. I just think it's worth including that we're the least corrupt in the world. Actually, we've got the pieces pretty well under control. But of course there must be transparency in these things, and that is why we have the rules that we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601115629	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601115633	There has been talk of Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen, Mr. Søren Pind and most recently the Minister of Finance. These are just the ones I can remember standing on the ground, because I think there are some more Left Members who either forgot an inventory or deliberately circumvent the rules with these professional clubs, where you can then hide your donors in a business club and pretend that they are not giving the money. It is usually such an automatic reaction from the Left that when ordinary people violate the rules, there is nothing about just being people, and then there will be control and higher penalties promptly and immediately. When will we get that kind of reaction when it comes to the members of the Left and the rules of openness?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601115722	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601115726	Now Mrs Pernille Skipper is making it as if these legendary business clubs are breaking the rules. That is not the case, I would just like to draw your attention to that. But, of course, the rules must be observed, whether they are flickers or whatever it is. And I can assure you that somebody is getting some rap on their hands. We keep these things internally, but of course we in the Left also have to live up to the rules. We have an interest in that, just as everyone else does. And then I won't be referring to the Moscow gold.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601115755	The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601115803	After all, almost a year has passed since the elections, which means that the government has been living for almost a year. We in the Liberal Alliance think that it has been a pretty good year and that we have had a trusting cooperation with the government. But on one point in particular, we feel a little ill-treated by the government and also by various members of the Left, including Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen, rapporteur. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen and other Leftmen go around saying that the Left itself had to take over government, that no one would help the Left take over government. Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen has said so on several occasions, and other Leftmen have said so on several occasions. Can we here and now put that myth to death, and can mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen, President-in-Office of the Council. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601115858	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601115901	Thank you, sir. Ole Birk Olesen for at least the first part of it. I also fully agree that we have good and very meaningful cooperation. Every time I've come to say something like that in some of the media when I have to comment on polls, which I have to do all too often, I've been given a message and it's for the rest of Things's pleasant information. Ole Birk Olesen then, in which he points out that it is certainly not right and that the Liberal Alliance would be very keen to take responsibility. I'm gonna take my hat off for that, and I'm gonna sign for that. It is now all the time that it is the Prime Minister who sits down here who decides this team, and even though I may be a very important person in my own optics, I was not in the government talks when they went on. But I'm with sir. Ole Birk Olesen's just completed history lecture sure that the kingdom has been further enlightened.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601115953	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601115957	I feel that, when I do not know anything about a subject, I do not speak out firmly and firmly about what has happened. That's the way it is. Now Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, that he does not know anything about whether other parties offered to help the Left with the power of government, but he nevertheless goes far and wide and says that no other parties did. I'd like to recommend to you, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen only to comment on what he knows about, and in this case just to believe in what has been said publicly by people who took part in the negotiations, namely that the Liberal Alliance offered the Left to help with the government, but that the offer was rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601120032	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601120036	Now it could be tempting for me to turn around and go down from the platform if I can only say something about which I know something, and then it can be a relatively short debate. But listen to me, this is about the fact that there is a party in government at the moment, and what I just say in all silence is that it is hard to take responsibility, and we are happy to take that responsibility on our part. It is not because there has been a crazy long queue of parties that have wanted to take part in that responsibility. We take that on us; we can, because we have broad shoulders, we are strong, we are left. Laughter
ParlaMint-DK_20160601120113	Without food and drink, the hero is no good. This also applies to the parliamentary heroes, so we interrupt the meeting for one hour. The sitting will resume after the lunch break at 8 a.m. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601130004	The meeting is open. We shall continue with the brief remarks to the Left's political rapporteur, Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen. The first person on the list is sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601130020	Thank you. I hope that the rapporteur has regained energy from the lunch break. Thank you for a good and exciting speech, which also summed up a year in which the Left has had the power of government. What I want to ask you about is ambition. Normally we always have ambitions to become world champions in football and handball, etc., but it seems that the ambitions of the government, especially when you talk about climate, development aid and many of these things, are expressed by saying that it is good enough to be among the first ten. I would really like to hear what the government's ambitions are. This also applies to the global challenges we face.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601130115	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601130116	Thank you for that, and welcome back. I think that we should perhaps put Denmark in the forefront of the climate agenda. We're way ahead of you. It is not like in football and handball, where things are not going so well at the moment. We're in the lead. In 2012, we made an energy agreement. Sir. Martin Lidegaard sat at the table at the time and was Minister for Energy and Climate Affairs. At that time he called it the most ambitious energy policy in the world. It was. It has then gone downhill in its assessment since then, because it is as if the last 11 months have completely cleared energy policy. Now suddenly we are a brown and black country where everything is bad. This isn't my experience. When we reached this agreement, we expected CO2 by 2020. Now we're at 40%. I don't understand how it can be unambitious. We're gonna be at the front, but not so far ahead of us that we're gonna get lost.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601130223	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601130225	Normally, when you achieve good results, you look at why it has happened? And here you can say: well, it's about to be super-ambitious. And now that we see that we are actually doing very well and that we could achieve some goals in the past, should we not set ourselves new targets, greater targets, rather than making some of the initiatives that the government unfortunately, I think, has taken in relation to the climate? Right now, the PES is being discussed, which is one of the most important tools, and it has been tried to convince us that it is the European Union that wanted us to remove it. But they have only asked for a slight change in it, and there we could of course be inspired by some of the other countries which are precisely working to introduce a similar system. So this is actually a call I want to make. Because when we've been so well, it's because we've been ambitious, we've been betting, we've invested. Unfortunately, that is not what we have seen so far from the government not in relation to research, not in relation to those objectives. So I hope the government will show their ambitions in this area in the new year.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601130325	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601130326	Well, I just disagree with this consideration. We have a goal of being independent of fossil fuels by 2050. I think that is ambitious. And then Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, that you should look at what others want, but that you should also be at the front. If you're in the front, it's a really bad idea to keep an eye on what the others are doing, because then you're not in the front anymore. We are at the forefront of climate policy. What I am just pointing out in peace is that sometimes you can get so far ahead of you that you get lost. And what we are risking here is that we are undermining our own competitiveness to a degree so that we cannot live with it. We're gonna be in the front, yeah. But let us just make sure that we have the rest of the field so that we do not make it unnecessarily harder for ourselves to pursue the policy that we want to pursue.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601130414	Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601130416	I hope that there are not too many athletes for the Olympic Games who are taking the strategy of saying that now we have to wait. If you're finally getting ahead and getting the gold medal, you wait and see if the others can't get to the side of you. But that's not what I wanted to ask. I want to go back to the discussion we had just before the midday break, where Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen said that in the Left we hold the principle sacred that we do not speak critically about anything unless we are sure that we will change it if we have power, as we have observed. I can, for example. Remember an advertisement from the European Parliament elections saying that there should be no border controls in Denmark again. I think that's what's come. It is even an expensive phenomenon. So you might want to be careful about climbing too high into the tree. However, one of those I always think is worth listening to among government ministers is the Minister of Culture, and he said back in 2012 in Information and he took Grundtvig to help, and at least it always warms a radical heart: The threat comes from the Dorske (doves) who don't bother fighting for anything, and the rulers who won't fight for their opponents' freedom. That's why he said: "Made free and hands tied" and the Minister of Culture concluded "i.e.." freedom of speech, also for Nazis and Hizb-ut-tahrir, but not the freedom to bother different thinking. If you look at what was done yesterday, with the restriction of freedom of expression, is it the category of dorks or dominions?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601130540	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601130542	In the discussions which led to an agreement yesterday in the Church Ministry and the Ministry of Culture, it has been important to ensure this balance, which I am quite sure Mr. Morten Østergaard also shares the view, namely the balance which ensures that we do not compromise on the values we want to protect in a misguided attempt to protect them. The best thing you could do about the neo-Nazis at the time was to give them a radio station so everyone could hear how silly they were. The only problem is that the people we're talking about here have an audience that listens to what they say. But that is why we should not limit their right to say anything. What you have been doing here is saying: If you in religious training call for things that are illegal we saw it in the mosques behind the veil, these TV programmes on TV 2 about the mosques and so encourage people with whom you have a religious overall relationship, excuse the expression, that you have to beat your children or rape your wife, we honestly do not think it is okay. There is this misunderstanding that freedom of expression is absolutely absolute. We therefore have some things that we have decided not to say to each other in order to take care of our freedom of expression and to take care of our democracy. We must not call for violence, we must not condone terrorism, we must not make threats and we must not bring libel.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601130701	Here you go, sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601130705	That was an exciting answer. After all, the time of great realization is not over when we hear the political rapporteur for the Danish Liberal Party explain to us that freedom of expression is not such an absolute size. I have been in Parliament for 11 years now, and I can certainly remember a major international crisis with its place of origin in Denmark, where in the Left there was exactly the opposite point of view, namely that freedom of expression was a very absolute size, which one certainly could not put a men's or anything else afterwards. Perhaps that was also what inspired the Minister of Culture at the time to write what he wrote. In any case, I would just like to express my regret that, after a year of a one-party government under the guise of a so-called liberal banner, we have come to the conclusion that we are going to put forward proposals to restrict freedom of expression. It has not served us before, and it will hardly serve us since.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601130758	Thank you. We must try to keep to the speaking time. It's gonna be a long night if we add a few more minutes every time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601130805	Yes, sir. Thank you, President. After all, I am not here to claim that freedom of expression is not absolute and absolute. It is the constitution of the Danish Empire, as Mr. Morten Østergaard just as I myself have signed up to want to comply. Well, I suppose that Mr. Knox... Morten Østergaard has also read it before. But an example of this, with restrictions, is the racism clause. Does the Radical Left no longer support the racism clause? Well, the last time I looked at it, it was something that was also supported in the Radical Left. But that may not be done because it is a terrible restriction on freedom of expression. There are some limits to what you have to say to each other. We have slightly adjusted them with this resolution yesterday because we have been hit by some things we hardly anticipated when the Danish Empire's constitution was laid down. I think that is very balanced.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601130855	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601130857	Thank you. Now the government is very concerned about the goals of both kindergarten and primary school, and if it gets its way, also in high schools in the future and that you have to follow up on those goals. One of the objectives that the government has set itself is to create new jobs and to make progress in the economy, but today's status is that it has not been delivered by the government. There have been no more jobs, at least not many. GDP per head I think that this is because of a policy which is thought to create more jobs by whipping the unemployed. You've created the ceiling on cash benefits, and then you think that because people get poorer, they go out and find a job. The integration allowance has been introduced, and it is believed that because the refugees become poorer, they go out and find a job. In addition, the research has been cut so much that even Novo Nordisk has been out to say that if you continue that course, Novo Nordisk will move jobs out of the country. I just want to know whether the rapporteur agrees that the course taken so far has not met the objective of creating more jobs for Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601131005	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601131006	I could be a little bold and just answer it briefly and say no, because it's notoriously wrong. That is simply not true. We can easily have different views on how to do it. We just can't have different experiences of facts. The reality is that there are 38,000 more private jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601131027	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601131029	In fact, when the government took over from the previous government, there was a prospect of 120,000 private jobs. You can then discuss whether it is progress or what it is. I would like to ask you something that may be a little more constructive. I am very concerned about the savings that have been made on research, because I believe that the research programmes we have been together on, particularly in green research, water research, energy research, are something that has created jobs. It's actually proven. It's been cut down. That is something that creates growth and jobs. Can the rapporteur guarantee that this will not be done in the autumn and that savings on research will be over in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601131105	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601131107	I'm just gonna have to arrest this. Firstly, we cannot discuss whether plus 38,000 is an increase. You can't do that. At least we'll have to get the math books back on track. In relation to research and Denmark's position, Denmark is the country in the OSCE that spends second most money on research, only surpassed by South Korea. So these dream scenarios, which we are setting up, that reality looks different, you simply have to stop if we are to have a sensible political debate, and Mr. Jacob Mark is the guarantor that you can have.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601131141	Then it's mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601131143	Thank you. Thank you for a good rapporteur's speech. I heard the rapporteur say at one point that it was just a fraction of the results of the Left, including the freezing of the ground blame. I just want to say that I am very happy that the Left fully takes it on and says that it was a very good idea. It's a Conservative heart's pleasure. I should like to ask: does the rapporteur think that this is a way forward?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601131216	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601131217	That's true, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen, whoever should be honored, and it was also the Conservative People's Party's credit that this was included. That is why we have placed an advertisement in national newspapers today, where we broadly thank the whole parliament. Some have been involved in some decisions and some have been involved in others. I would like to acknowledge the efforts of the Conservative People's Party here. This is something that can be taken to the negotiating table next time by the Conservatives, and then we will see how it runs out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601131255	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601131257	Without thinking that it is breaking news, I can confirm to the rapporteur that we intend to do so, and I look forward to the rapporteur in his own party, with all he can, fighting for us to do something about housing taxes in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601131311	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601131312	I think that was more of a comment and a kind reminder to me, and it has been received. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601131321	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601131325	I would like to address another of the not sheriff's stars, but guiding stars presented by the Prime Minister in August, namely the issue of fewer people on public support. There is, then, the guiding star that there must be significantly fewer on public support. That is why my question is simply that, now that the government's reforms are creating not 3,000, not 30,000, but 300 more in employment, while at the same time a large group of children are being pushed below the poverty line, does the rapporteur believe that the government has lived up to the promise, the objective, the guiding star of significantly fewer on public support?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601131408	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601131409	If I were to express my disagreement and correct all the nonsense that Mr. Benny Engelbrecht says in his paper, I'd have to spend all the time on it. The reality is that there are 10,000 fewer people on public support. We want it to pay better to work. That is why the government is spending the summer preparing a 2025 plan which will provide the basis for the negotiations that we are inviting to after the summer, and in which I also hope that the Socialists will participate constructively. And so it is acting, among other things. to reduce the tax on work for the lowest income, so that there is a greater difference between going to work and not going to work. We believe that such incentives work and that they encourage a job.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601131500	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601131502	Would the rapporteur agree with me that the two measures taken by the government in this area are Job Reform Phase 1 and the unemployment benefit reform? Job reform Phase 1 gives a plus of 1,100, the benefit reform gives a minus of 800, that is 300. In my book, 300 is not a significant increase.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601131522	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601131523	I didn't follow the math, but I'm sure that's true. I'm assuming that Mr. Knox... Benny Engelbrecht has his mathematics under control. What I can just say is that the reality is that there are fewer people on public support and we have a wish that it should pay better to work. When I stand and look a little confused, it is because I really think that I said it incredibly clearly just now, and I hope, in fact, that the Social Democrats want to participate in this, that they want to be involved in making reforms that will ensure the future of the Danish welfare society.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601131558	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601131559	Thank you. Earlier today, good news came to us who are pleased with border controls, namely that border controls will be extended until November. But for the government there must be a bit of wormwood in the cup, because the reason why we were allowed to extend by six months was that at the beginning of May we applied for an extension of border controls for two years. This has probably been applied for because it was thought that it was the policy that needed to steer Denmark safely through the crisis we are facing now in relation to refugees and migrants. Does the Left rapporteur not think that it is a problem for the EU to prevent the Left Government from pursuing the policy that the Left Government really wants to pursue in relation to border controls?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601131651	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601131652	If that were the case, we would certainly think it was a problem. I can only say that it does not do so in that we have obtained this approval to continue temporary border controls. Let me just say that I do not regard border controls as something wonderful in the same way as the rapporteur does; I think border controls are an annoying and annoying obstacle both for us as individuals, but also for companies when crossing borders in Europe. That is why I hope that border controls are necessary as soon as possible and that we can once again establish a credible external border in the European Union so that we can have the freedom of movement, which I therefore think is one of the greatest advantages we have in European cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601131739	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601131741	So I understand that there is a difference between the Confederal Group of the European United Left, which wants border controls to be there for as little time as possible, and the government on the other hand, which believes that there should be border controls for two years, which was what the Commission was asked to do. Who's representing the right left in this case? Is it the Minister for Integration, or is it the political rapporteur of the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601131806	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601131807	We both kind of do. At this point in time, I'm the one who's doing it, and that's why I'm standing up here. The truth is that we are seeking the possibility of introducing temporary border controls, continuing temporary border controls, and we have a desire to have that opportunity, but we also have a great desire that we do not have to use that option. The two things do not conflict with each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601131831	Then it is Mrs Lea Wermelin, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601131834	Thank you. I would like to return to one of the prime minister's four guiding stars, namely that the core welfare in Denmark must be strengthened. The rapporteur also mentioned this in his speech, but what the rapporteur skilfully did not have in mind was that, despite the objective of strengthening the well-being of the Danes, the government has introduced minus growth in the municipalities. These are cuts that will be felt in our day-offer, in our primary schools, in the care of the elderly. So I just have to understand the rapporteur correctly, that is to say: does the rapporteur believe that the government's guiding principle of strengthening core welfare is a success when, at the same time, the government, with its re-priority contribution, has cut down on the core welfare of the municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601131920	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601131922	Now it is there that you come up with things that sound savage, but which are wrong, simply have to stop. So, the reality is that under the Socialist-led government, the service framework in the municipalities was reduced by 3 billion. and that the current government increased this framework by 0.5 billion. kr. That's the numbers. Then we can discuss re-prioritisation contributions, and that is fine, but the issue of establishing a reality that is not right is simply not right. Moreover, the re-priority contribution will be returned to the municipalities. So what Mrs Lea Wermelin is trying to give a picture of is simply not right.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601132001	Here you go, Mrs. Lea Wermelin.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601132002	What is real is this front page, namely that your cuts are going to mean worse welfare out there in our municipalities. And that is not true when the rapporteur says that no more money was spent in the municipalities under the SR government on precisely welfare. In fact, 1.5 billion were spent. kr. more in 2014 than in 2011. So I understand that the rapporteur does not recognise the whole question of these cuts, although we can of course look black and white, that is what will happen in the municipalities. But you haven't strengthened the core welfare, so we have to conclude that the government has been a failure in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601132044	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601132045	I remember slightly reading one story or two or 90 in the daily newspaper that Mrs Lea Wermelin is giving up, which may not have been able to keep complete water. And with all due respect for the Berlingske Officin, it's fine to lean on BT as a witness of truth to the state of the kingdom. I lean on two others, and this is the Ministry of Finance and Statistics of Denmark. And I can see from that that 0.5 billion was added. kr. extra to the municipalities under this government as opposed to the 3 billion. kr., which was removed from the service framework under the previous government. I also note that an additional 2.4 billion has been added to the hospital service. kr. and then on top of an extra billion as a dignity billion for the elderly. So if the source is BT and we're going to discuss it from there, it's gonna be a long and painful night.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601132137	Then it's mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601132139	Thank you. There is no doubt that the previous government provided a whole series of reliefs in the field of foreigners, and that is what I would like to hear from the rapporteur of the Left. Because despite the fact that we have spent the last year tightening up several times, many times to calm the influx, we can see that there is still an increase of about 40%. by people who come here. And, of course, I am curious to find out when the Left said before the elections that there would be an immediate slowing down, which initiatives are in the pipeline now on the part of the government to ensure that you can keep that promise and, of course, deliver an immediate slowing down. So perhaps the rapporteur could make me wiser.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601132215	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601132216	Let me start by signing for the austerity which the government has also carried out with the support of the Danish People's Party and of course also eagerly encouraged by the Danish People's Party. So thank you for that. I can just quietly note and one has to be careful not to put too much in immediate figures that the influx to Denmark over the past few months has been the lowest since 2012. And that's what it looks like now. We have carried out a number of tightenings, and we are happy to do so, and I am very pleased that we have done so. But let's see if this works before we move on to the field.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601132301	Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601132302	Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen quite a good point in that the influx over the last few months has been sensible because it has been lower than other periods. This is not least due to the border controls which Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen has been so sceptical about this. So my next question must be: if you can now see that border controls are working, should you not take advantage of this and immediately recognise completely and frankly that border controls have come to stay and that we must make it permanent simply in order to slow down the flow even further?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601132336	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601132337	Well, I don't believe that this sitting around here is the optimal approach to have in the world for a country which, in the last 1000 years, since we stopped setting fire to Paris, has fed us by trading with other countries in the world. That's what we can do. We have a border control now, a temporary border control. I recognise that, but what is important is to strengthen the external border so that we can still have open borders and move freely between ourselves for the joy and benefit of the whole of Europe. It strengthens our growth, it strengthens the ability to move across and cross, and I see that as something positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601132417	Then it's Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601132421	Thank you. That is how it is and I also sense that the rapporteur agrees with me that decades of ambitious climate and environmental policy have helped create a unique leadership position for Denmark. We have been a country that they looked at in other countries when they were about to embark on the green transition. We have, for example. have helped to show that you can fit 50 per cent. wind turbine current in its electrical system, something that they in very many countries did not even think was possible until they came to Denmark. We have helped to create hope, it has actually been a leading position that has made a difference and which has created thousands of Danish jobs. But the way in which the Left has managed this leadership position over the past year is deeply worrying. Denmark's climate targets have been dropped, quite a few weeks before a historic climate summit; it has been announced that wind farms will be abandoned; the tax exemption for electric cars has been abolished just as the sale was about to take hold; and there has been uncertainty about an energy agreement that is probably the most ambitious at all in the world. I would like to ask the rapporteur: does the Left have any vision of what role Denmark should play in the world to resolve the climate crisis, which is probably the greatest challenge ever faced by humanity?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601132537	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601132539	I must start by thanking, on behalf of the Left and my predecessors in the proud party, for the commendable words about what a position the Left's climate policy has brought Denmark into the world, and perhaps it can also wave a little to the concern mentioned by the rapporteur. Well, excuse me, it's among other things. Left, who has made sure that we are in that position, it is also the Social Democrats, it is also other good people who have been in power in Denmark. That is why we are ahead, and we are still out front, and we can still be an inspiration, and we can still make other countries become more ambitious, because nobody is as ambitious as we are. And this picture that everything is gray and black and brown is just not right. Denmark is a green leader nation, and we want to hold on to that. What I am just saying is that we cannot therefore stare at one subject politically. That is also what a final debate should make room for, in other words, that we look at things widely across the political spectrum and that there is not just one political issue we are staring at blindly. Because there are some effects of being too far ahead on the green area. That's what I tried to illustrate before.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601132651	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601132652	What is happening right now is that Denmark slows up, while the rest of the world goes into gear. That's what's happening right now. So you gotta stop talking about how we're way ahead of the driver's field. We are not, and the figures speak their clear language. After several years of growth in the export of energy technology, things are going back, and we are losing Danish jobs with the green policy that the Left is pursuing. But I would like to ask in another way: does the Left have visions and ambitions for how Denmark is going to create positions of strength in the areas in which we, both because of the climate, but also because of resource scarcity, know that in the rest of the world they are facing major investments in?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601132740	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601132743	Yes, of course we do, but excuse me, I just want to come back to this with the fact that we are losing jobs. For the reality is that if we set targets for our companies that are much higher than the targets set south of the border, in Sweden or elsewhere, companies will move there. We can see this with a company like Dalum Paper Factory from Odense, which is, or which was, unfortunately, a very energy-intensive company, and which was thus the most energy-efficient company in paper production throughout Europe. There one had to close production and move it to a country where they pollute more because it was not worth running the company in Denmark. So we are not doing anyone a favour at all. It is bad for the environment, it is bad for Danish business and it is bad for Danish tax revenues.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601132835	Thank you. Then it's mr. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601132838	Thank you. During the year I have had very good talks and discussions with both the Minister for Defence and the Minister for Foreign Affairs on security policy. In the alternative, we generally disagree very much with the military activist foreign policy that has been conducted for many years, but it is important to ensure that we fully agree on NATO membership. I have last tried to ask whether one could start talking about another way of contributing and there I have met a wall. It may be because I haven't explained myself properly, but then I can think about it during the summer vacation. That is why I would ask the rapporteur to help me a little. Could it be reasonable and relevant when Denmark now massively backs NATO and complements with everything we can, with everything we as a small state here in Denmark can do to back up the missions we are out in around the world, to ask if we can contribute in a different way? Could we perhaps get up and approach the 2% that we are going to contribute, where we are only contributing 1.2 per cent today, by saying: humanitarian aid; massive infrastructure building in the countries where it pinchs; cyberwarfare, do we have any competences there? Could we take that dialogue? Until now, I have had blank rejections, most recently from the Minister for Defence, who says: No, of course we have not had that dialogue yet with NATO.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601132949	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601132950	I think that the disagreement somewhere is due to the fact that our commitment to NATO is therefore, we have a desire to have something completely, quite wrong here, and then a big brother will come and help us, is the prerequisite for someone to come and help us, so that we get into a position where we can protect ourselves too. For no one is coming to help a country that has put itself in a position where it cannot protect itself. We saw that on April 9th. And I really do not want to put Denmark back in that kind of situation. So we have to demonstrate that we want to take care of ourselves before we can expect others to come and do so. Then there are many ways to contribute to NATO, and Denmark has done very intensively what the rapporteur also mentions in various conflicts around it. I myself took part in this, and I think Denmark should be proud of it. But NATO is
ParlaMint-DK_20160601133053	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601133055	You have to challenge yourself, and that is why I too went with NATO and the American Embassy to Brussels and Tallinn here recently to see where we were wrong in the alternative. And I actually saw that we did not really make such a huge mistake in this area because, when you sit and talk to NATO people, it is important that it is a political and military alliance. You have an expectation of, among other things. As far as the Arctic is concerned, it is Denmark that is involved because NATO has suffered from an anxiety about the Arctic region. So how are we going to contribute? That is where I want to say my question again: well, when the United States has 2,400 fighters, and we may end up buying 30, then it may not be combat aircraft in itself that are needed, but perhaps more of the contribution that we can now best provide. And there I think the United States might be interested in hearing how we in Denmark can contribute something they cannot. Can we deliver something other than as special forces or any other equipment that they have so abundantly?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601133147	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601133149	It may be I was the one who misunderstood the question from Mr. René Gade. I heard it a little like: is it now necessary to buy new fighter planes? Yes, it is, unfortunately. There is no question of armament. This is a replacement for existing aircraft, which has been in service for 40 years, and it has worked a little hard on them. We need some new aircraft because we have an interest in being able to enforce our own airspace. Unfortunately, it is being challenged by large countries eastwards, in particular one large country eastwards, which challenges Danish airspace by flying dangerously close to Danish scheduled traffic, and which, at the public meeting on Bornholm a few years ago, made a serious skin attack on the island. We must be able to respond to that, and we must be able to reject it. We must also be able to help our Baltic friends in NATO with airpolicing and we must be able to participate in international operations.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601133243	Thank you. Then I must thank the rapporteur. There are still some questions, but unfortunately time has passed and it has been used optimally. Then perhaps I should say that when I ask for the speaking time to be kept, it is also because you push your colleagues out if you spend too much time and everyone wants to go to the table, which is the platform of the Folketing. Here you go, sir. Pelle Dragsted from Enhedslisten as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601133310	Thank you, President. I would actually like to use this opportunity to tell a story about Susanne, a woman with whom I have had contact in recent years. When Susanne was a child, she fell 7 m from a tree and broke most bones in her body. Fortunately, she was put back together, but has since been persecuted by the consequences. She's gonna have to be run over, and she's in chronic pain. Yet Susanne struggled for an education and actually had good jobs in different companies for a while. She had children, lived in a house north of Copenhagen, but unfortunately the pain got worse and worse, and the operations also increased, and eventually she could no longer do a job. After a period of sickness benefit, she entered the cash benefits system and, as you know, other rules apply. To receive cash benefits, she had to sell her house, and she and the children had to move to a social housing estate outside Copenhagen. Her doctor and all other experts do not believe that she will ever regain her ability to work, and they think she is entitled to an early retirement pension. But the municipality is of a different opinion, so Susanne, like thousands of other Danes, has ended up in a limbo in the cash assistance system. Too sick to work, but according to the municipality's opinion she is too healthy to receive early retirement. Life on cash benefits, unlike what you sometimes hear in here, is tough. There is never money at the end of the month, there is no money to go to the movies with the kids, and the debt to family and network just grows. Susanne's first great grief when she lost her job was the loss of working capacity and identity and colleagues, but afterwards came the shock of meeting a system that was actually thought to help you, but which instead met her with suspicion and bureaucracy and sluggishness. On top of that, the shame came from the prejudiced debate on the unemployed, to which many of my colleagues in this House also contribute, and from the fear of the next newspaper cover or the next documentary programme about the lazy unemployed. Susanne's story is just one of many we hear them sadly over and over again about how people die before their retirement cases get treated, about sick people sent in so-called bed practice. Many of these people, like Susanne, have been working and contributing to society for years, and they are deeply shocked by the conditions they face when they have been innocuously affected by unemployment or disease. We discover it only when it hits ourselves, i.e. how short the distance has been from a normal life to an economic deroute; a note of fire, an accident can change the whole life in a short time, because security is no longer there. These conditions have not come about on their own; it is the consequence of two decades of social policy that has had the clear objective of making life as unemployed as hard and as unpleasant as possible. That is the consequence of the so-called reforms that a majority of the old parties in here have adopted across the blocs. The story of Susanne is a story about Denmark, as Denmark has become, but why? The reforms are necessary, we were told, because we need more growth. But growth is lower today than before the majority in this House went through reform, and yet they are now calling for new reforms, that is, more insecurity, more insecurity for ordinary people, more of a medicine that has obviously not worked. However, even if the reforms actually created growth, we may have to ask ourselves what price we are actually prepared to pay for marginally higher growth. Are we prepared to accept a country with significantly higher inequality? Are we prepared to spend less time with our families? Are we prepared to expose our unemployed colleagues to even more humiliation? Are we prepared to sacrifice our climate and our environment? We have never had that discussion, and we should take that discussion. The second argument put forward by the Reformers is that the reforms were necessary if we were to be able to afford welfare in order to create room for manoeuvre, as is so well known in the lingo of the old power parties? But how is this connected, because Denmark is one of the world's most prosperous societies, and we have become increasingly prosperous over the last few decades? It is true that the wealth we have has been distributed more and more unequally, because more and more wealth is concentrated in a few. For there is also another Denmark far from Susanne, far from all the other Danes who are affected by unemployment and illness, far from all ordinary Danes. This is the Denmark that the Prime Minister had invited the other day to a meeting about at Marienborg, i.e. about Denmark's future • Director Denmark, Millionærdanmark. And there is certainly nothing missing here, because while ordinary people's wages have stood still since the financial crisis, pensioners and unemployed people have seen their incomes fall, but Director Danmark has seen significant income increases. There is no money for welfare, they say. Okay, but there was money to give Goldman Sachs 10 billion Danish kroner for 18 months' service. There is no advice, they say, who are not able to afford decent conditions for vulnerable Danes, but there is money to spend 50 billion. kr. on new fighter planes. There is no advice, they say, who are no longer able to afford a community of solidarity, but who can afford to reduce corporate tax by 4 billion. kr., to lower the top tax by 3 billion. kr. And to put the treasure down on luxury sports cars. The reality is that there are the so-called reforms were not necessary. They were political choices and they were wrong political choices. Some new political choices are needed in Denmark, there is a need for courage, there is a need for innovation, and change is needed. We do not need any more such reforms, which are just another word to make life safer for ordinary people. We don't need any more leg buckles for Susanne and the other exposed Danes. We don't need more gifts for those who already have more than they can use. No, we need a determined effort to combat inequality, and we could appropriately start by ensuring that the banks that have made billions of dollars to be saved by the state pay back to the community crown for crown. But innovation is not just about the economy; it is also about trust, because it is not only Susanne and the other unemployed Danes who are faced with mistrust, it is also the people who take care of our welfare societies. Instead of trust and faith in their professionalism, our public employees are being drained with documentation requirements and schedules, for imagine if the SOSU helper took a cup of coffee too much with Mrs Sørensen, or think if the social worker called the unemployed person for a check-up too little. Let us now give up the crazy idea that the math boys inside the Treasury and all their Excel sheets understand the world better than the people who stand with their hands in the fuck. Our skilled nurses, educators, teachers, social workers must meet with confidence and recognition, not with control and detailed management. Let us then also show confidence in our local democracy, in our municipalities, and let them manage their own economy instead, as the government wants, come and take the money out of the municipal coffers with the so-called down-priority contribution. But our role in the world also calls for change. In the last year, the perception of Denmark in the world has, frankly, not improved. Newspaper ads to keep refugees away, a jewelry law that shocked the whole world. There was a time when Denmark was known to be a pioneer country, which aroused awareness of the good, for its progressive attitudes. Imagine if Denmark again became known as a progressive and peaceful nation, as world champion of development aid, as a conflict-solver, as a bridge-builder. That's our vision. But perhaps the most important change is about our future on the planet. It has been truly sad to see a government struggling to undermine the green transition. One day they pass a manure law, which will very likely lead to oxygen and dead fish in our fjords and streams, the next day they will stop the construction of wind turbines. We're going the opposite way. We're not going down. We're going up. We need to adapt to a future where what grows and grows is our leisure time and our quality of life instead of our material consumption. It's an opportunity, not a problem. More time for family and shorter working hours is something that many of us dream of. The changes I have talked about are some of the changes that we want to help create, and we reach out to all of them, both in here at Christiansborg and outside, who want to be there, for we must never forget that we ourselves are creating the society in which we live and that we can change it if we want to. It is not natural law that Susanne should live under the conditions she does, or that wealth should clump together with a few at the top. It is political decisions they can change, Denmark can become a good country, where everyone is with us and where we look out for each other. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601134307	Thank you. Then we start with the series of brief remarks. Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601134313	Thank you very much, and thank you very much, Mr President. Pelle Dragsted. One of the areas where I understand we disagree, and there are probably some, is immigration policy. Sir. Pelle Dragsted has, of course, well explained the different views that we have. One thing I just can't quite see through is how many asylum seekers in round numbers, whole lengths of clogs, Enhedslisten thinks Denmark should accept.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601134342	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601134343	That depends entirely on the situation in the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601134353	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601134354	That was a very, very short and very, very little precise answer, but thank you anyway. If we assume that the situation in the world is as it unfortunately is in many places today, is it Enhedslisten's ambition to open the door wide open and say that all those who need help can come to Denmark? Or is it believed that there is an upper limit to how many people can come here? And in this context, if we now have this first point of view, will we be able to support a Prime Minister's candidate who believes that there should be no change in foreign policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601134430	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601134431	Of course there's an upper limit. Denmark cannot accept all the refugees in the world; that goes without saying. However, as the rapporteur himself knows, it is difficult to quantify, because it depends on how many refugees are coming to Denmark. Fortunately, one can say " or "fortunately" one cannot even say "it is quite a few of the refugees who are in the world who come here." We are, of course, covered by various refugee conventions, and I am sure the rapporteur also believes that we should continue to be so. And when we are, it is the case that people who come to our borders and like, for example. If persecuted by the Islamic State or Assad, we must provide protection. I think we should stick to that. Then, as we have said for a long time in the Enhedslisten, I believe that the government has been far too handy to try to create a common European scale. Because Denmark actually takes quite a lot and has done so in recent years. It would be fairer if we could create a distribution so that all countries in Europe took responsibility for this historic refugee crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601134530	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601134535	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. I would also like to address the issue which may have filled the most in the parliamentary year that is going on today, namely the refugees. The former political rapporteur for the Enhedslisten, Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, said in an interview in Politiken in January in answer to a question as to whether Denmark should or should take as many refugees as Sweden has done: "No. Sweden has too much work to do. ▪ I'd like to ask Mr. Pelle Dragsted, whether the rapporteur is of the same opinion as Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen. Is there a limit to how many refugees we can take as a country, and can you go into where that border is just about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601134620	We must remember that the Rules of Procedure do not apply direct charges. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601134626	It's forgiven. I think I answered the question earlier to a previous questioner: of course there is a limit to how many refugees a country can take. Well, we won't be able to accept a million refugees or whatever the hell you could put that number on. Of course there is. That goes without saying. That's why we think that...
ParlaMint-DK_20160601134641	I simply have to say to the rapporteur that there is no swearing at all from the platform of the Folketing! I'm sorry, I didn't learn that where I came from). But this is the case here, and there is no discussion with the President either. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601134652	All right, that's noted, President. No, what I came from was saying is, of course there's a limit. But the rapporteur knows just as well as I do and that is also why there are no other parties who can set a limit that as long as Denmark is covered by the refugee convention, it is really difficult to put on a number. For the day then comes a fugitive who is on the run from e.g. sex slavery with the Islamic State and arriving in Denmark, the rapporteur should first of all violate the refugee convention in order to send this person back into the arms of the Islamic State, and secondly, it would not be possible either. So what is the rapporteur's idea? Should they be parachuted over IS-controlled areas in Syria, or what is one imagined? In one way or another, I think this debate is gonna be so irresponsible. We may have different views on these things, but please stop doing that number debate. It was fun 4-5 years ago or 10 years ago, but I really don't think it's that interesting anymore. Thank you very much, President-in-Office. ) cannot take all refugees in the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601134753	Here you go, sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601134756	I note with caution that both Mr. Pelle Dragsted and myself may have some challenges with the Danish Parliament's Rules of Procedure. We have to work on that. But back to politics, because this isn't funny. It is about Denmark facing enormous challenges in terms of refugees, and there are a number of parties that have made even quite difficult choices in terms of limiting the current influx. I understand that the rapporteur agrees that there may be a limit to how many refugees we can take as a country. Does the rapporteur also think, when we look at the challenges facing municipalities, that we are near that border at the moment, and does the rapporteur think that we should take political action to limit the influx we have seen and see? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601134841	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601134842	It is true that we look at it a little differently from the Socialists. We think you've gone too far. We think the jewelry law was a disgrace to Denmark. We believe that the rules that have been introduced for family reunification for children, where children may be at risk of having to be 3 years in a war zone, are harmful, both for the people involved, but also for the possibility of integration. And that's how it's gonna be. We all want a border somewhere. I am sure the rapporteur has that too. The rapporteur's party, for example, has voted against the benefits of integration, even though, according to the government, it is also helping to stop the influx, and that will be the case. We want different places where we think the border is going. It is true that some of the restrictions that the Socialists have helped to implement seem to us to be out of line. The Socialists do not think so, and that is the difference between our parties on this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601134927	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601134929	Thank you. I would like to stay a little on the same track, and it is not in fact coordinated at all between the Social Democracy and the Danish People's Party. But it is just nice that it is still possible to have a meaningful debate on the same subject. In other words, the President of the Alternative, it is said there too, has said that he wants all the restrictions on foreigners to be rolled back. Is that also the position of Enhedslisten?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601135000	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601135001	Now I don't know what kind of alien tension it is. If it is about the restrictions on foreigners that have been implemented since the government took office, then it is the position of the Enhedslisten that they should be rolled back.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601135016	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601135017	Well, that was a fantastic crystal clear answer. It's nice when you can use a graduation debate to explain things so clearly. All the restrictions imposed on foreigners since last summer must therefore be rolled back. That is what both the Alternative and Enhedslisten think. I think it is exciting because there is a fundamentally different political direction here. Now Enhedslisten is included in a proposal for adoption calling on the government to set a new course of cooperation broadly in the Folketing, and I am almost led to ask Enhedslisten's representative: If the Social Democracy is in a majority with the rest of us, is it so wide? Or a broad majority necessarily includes some of the new alliance, that is. Enhedslisten, SF, Radical and Alternative, or what it is like for it to be defined as broad in terms of attitude here in the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601135107	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601135109	After all, there are many people who want to formulate such a proposal for adoption. Personally, it is not so important to me whether cooperation is broad or not. What is important is what is agreed. It can be said that it is obvious that there is a large majority in this Parliament behind the immigration policy that is being pursued now. I can regret that, and I will fight to change that, so that the people put the Folketing together in a way so that we can change that policy. It is my job as a politician to try to secure it and try to go out to assembly halls and meetings and everything else and say that I actually think we can do it in a different way, in recognition that this is not easy, that there are plenty of challenges in it. After all, it is not easy to accept people on the run who come from other cultures and from other religious backgrounds and everything else. That's a huge challenge. But, of course, we set the limits in different places, in relation to what needs to be done and how it should be handled. And, of course, I will go out and argue for the policy we stand for, as Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, unfortunately with some luck, argues for the policy, Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl stands for.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601135208	Thank you. Then it's mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601135211	I would like to tell the rapporteur about Niels. Niels became unemployed in the first half of the 1980s. He did so again in the second half of the 1980s. Niels is my father, and that is why I have to say that I am infinitely sorry and tired of the rapporteur's demagogic claim that we in the Liberal Alliance should have something special against the unemployed. We just have some other political solutions than the rapporteur has. We have solutions that create more jobs in Denmark, which create more private employment, which ensure that people do not have to be in unemployment. And I think it is a pity that the rapporteur and his party are constantly making the discussion on unemployment about subsidies rather than providing constructive solutions to create jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601135301	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601135302	I am sorry if I have been demagogic. I don't think I mentioned the Liberal Alliance at all in my speech. I do not believe that the Liberal Alliance does not like the unemployed, but the policy one stands for just has some consequences for the people affected by unemployment. I fully agree that the best cure for unemployment for those who can work is that we have created some jobs in Denmark. We disagree a little about what it takes to create those jobs. I saw, for example. I would like, when we have high unemployment, to be better at sharing the jobs that exist, for example. by allowing parents to go on leave, so there was room for one of those on the job queue to come in and get some on the resume. We have plenty of proposals on how to create new jobs and how to better share the jobs that exist, but you just have to remember that there are people like Susanne who cannot work. Unfortunately, these are some of the people who, among other things, have been involved. The rapporteur's party is helping to make good the need for the cash aid reform that has just been adopted. I had lunch with that Susanne the other day, and she was unhappy. She didn't actually know if she was gonna get hit. She has written and asked the municipality: Will I be included? She doesn't even get an answer to her letter. She doesn't know if she can pay her rent on October 1st.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601135412	Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601135414	I share a feeling with Susanne, and that's the feeling of not getting an answer. For Mr. Pelle Dragsted said a little in the end that uh, our policy was so horrible and so on, so it must have been us and others that were tried to eject from Parliament's platform. I just think that this is an incredibly boring trend, as we see from the Enhedslisten, because Enhedslisten does not have any political proposals that will ensure that jobs that create value are created. Everyone can create jobs over a few years. Then you can have a Venezuela that you can talk about is amazing and then it collapses. But we cannot pursue a policy that does not create value in jobs whose solutions must be lasting. I think it is so antisocial and so sorry for the unemployed that Enhedslisten is not thinking about their need to get a real job.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601135506	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601135507	I do not really believe that I fully understand the warlike line. I have full respect for what the Liberal Alliance stands for. I disagree with that, but I just have to say that for example. A ceiling on cash benefits has some consequences for some people, including Susanne, whom I told you about. It's not something that makes you bad people, you're just conducting a policy that I think is very, very wrong. Then we should not leave it there. It is not true that Enhedslisten has no suggestions on how to create jobs. I think it was Berlingske Business who made a small enquete where you could make suggestions about what you would do to create jobs. I think Radicals were no. 1, Enhedslisten was no. 2 and the Liberal Alliance came, as I recall, in a fine third place. Some of the points we make are, for example: investments in research and training. This was also one of the points made by the wise men yesterday and unfortunately I cannot speak anymore. It may be that I have one more question so that I can elaborate on it, otherwise I will gladly take a break.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601135554	Sir. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601135556	It may well be an opportunity to clarify it a little. Because we agree that it is important to invest in education and research, and when we did so with the financial laws that we made together, we did so on the basis of a room for manoeuvre created by some decisions that we on the part of the Radicals helped to take. That was among other things. This is a pre-retirement reform in which we could afford, among other things. investing in education and research, on which we agree, are important things. And there is my question actually just: how does Enhedslisten feel about being so fervently opposed to even talking about increasing total employment in Denmark through these labour market reforms, but happy and willing to spend the money once the proceeds have come ashore?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601135647	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601135647-2	I think it's the kind of typical song we get from those so-called reformers. This is the picture that if we're gonna be able to afford welfare and other things, there's only one way forward. And it is reforms that always have the content of hitting anyone but us sitting in here and the richest part of the Danes. On the other hand, that group can count on tax reductions. That's what imagination is all about. But there could be other answers, sir. rapporteur. You could, for example. have not implemented tax cuts up through the '00s and, as it were, in the time of the last government, which cost the Treasury on the good side of 50 billion. kr. a year. You couldn't have spent 50 billion. kr. on new fighter planes. There are many ways to solve these problems. I respect the fact that the proposals of the Radicals are the so-called reforms, which is a strange concept, because I believe that everyone is in favour of reform; it is the content of the reforms that is the issue that increases the insecurity of ordinary employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601135749	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601135751	I do not know whether it can be said that reforms of, for example, the early retirement scheme only affect a narrow group of those in Danish society who have the least. On the contrary, it affects a very large group, and unlike that, Mr President. Pelle Dragsted and Enhedslisten say, after all, it is people that we can see now that the retirement age is being raised, is actually in employment and not on any other transfer, as was claimed would happen. But that was not really my question. My question is: what if, in the autumn, what I very much hope to do is to replace all these cuts in research and training with some real decisions, for example. to raise the retirement age, which will affect all of us, including us in the Folketing, as Mr. Pelle Dragsted just saying exactly? If it is now decided without the Enhedslisten and a revenue is created that can be invested in education and research in the coming years, will the Enhedslisten help to spend the money once again, even if you did not help find it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601135843	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601135844	I would like to start with a small factual correction. If we raise the pensionable age, it will not include most of us in here. For the changes in retirement age made by members of parliament and it is a good thing that this has been done, we have been fighting for that for years not going to include those who were elected into this parliamentary term. So you're not going to be included in it. It's just to get it straight. As far as these reforms are concerned, such as: To raise the retirement age or the retirement age, hits all of us, I would say: yes, they do. They just hit us differently. I mean, we talk about this so often, when we need to make some reforms that affect everyone but yourself. But life expectancy is very different for an unskilled and an academic. So when you raise the retirement age for everyone, it's going to hit the unskilled considerably harder in the head than the academic. And that is the class blindness that unfortunately afflicts the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601135933	Then it's mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601135936	Thank you. When I hear Enhedslisten, it's sometimes like we're living a society where it's just falling apart. Everything is terrible and everything in the public sector is terrible and now it has been cloudy and it is really bad. I am just wondering whether there is also a focus on those who are in work, i.e. something called fairness, orderlyness and respect for hard work. It provokes me, and now we are talking about the ceiling on cash aid, and I am surprised when I can meet Janni from Bjerringbro, who is the single mother of two in the election campaign. She is an SOSU assistant in 30 hours, and she has less to herself than a single mother on cash assistance with two children. Is that fair? Or should we just pay higher wages, because I think that's almost the answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601140032	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601140033	The last one could be a good idea. But I actually think it's a funny counterposition. I have heard it before, including in the debate on the ceiling for cash benefits, that when it comes to reducing benefits for the unemployed, it is to show respect for those who are at work. But if you will excuse me, you will be neither more prosperous nor happier if your unemployed colleagues get one on top of the nut. On the contrary, it can be said that precisely the SOSU assistant or the unskilled person are those who are most at risk of being affected by periods of unemployment. So a deterioration for their unemployed colleagues will soon be a deterioration for them. So I think it is a miserable respect for the SOSU assistant to reduce the conditions of her unemployed colleagues. This is not the right way to show respect. People are not unemployed because they want it. People are unemployed because jobs are lacking in our society and, unfortunately, in some cases it is also because they are not able to work, but are still in the limbo that I was talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601140129	Here you go, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601140131	One could have a long debate about why there is so much foreign labour and so many Danes we do not get many into the labour market. I'm sure there's a lot of answers to that. But I actually see it as a matter of fairness. 'Cause she said to me, 'My kids need to see a mother who goes to work every day. I'll go a long way for that. So, for me, it's kind of reasonable. Is it not fair that those who go to work get a little more out of it than those who do not? Isn't that just fair and fair in a society where we can't make a living giving money to each other?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601140208	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601140209	Well, of course you need more to go to work, and so do you. In other words, it sometimes sounds as if the benefits in Denmark have become higher and higher compared to wages. What you call the level of compensation, that is, what you get, compared to if you were in work, has fallen and fallen over the last few decades. There's a solid gain in working. You can always find an example of someone where you can say, "What if she has 25 hours?" Is that supposed to be compared to the cash aid? Or what about someone who has two children or lives in an apartment where she gets some special housing support? However, if you look at the general picture, it is worth working in Denmark, and it should also be able to do so. Then there's that fair and square. Honestly: could we not start talking about the fairness of that among others. The rapporteur's party and a majority in here have given 10 billion good Danish kroner away to Goldman Sachs because they were inside playing King Carrot on the Board of DONG for 18 months?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601140257	Thank you. Having said that, I think that sometimes you mean it as a man. So we move on in the rapporteur's line, Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601140307	Thank you. I believe that, over the last year, everyone has thought that these have been difficult decisions on the whole of the major refugee crisis that we are facing. That is why I also recognise that Mr. Pelle Dragsted on the platform today says that he actually and on behalf of Enhedslisten believes that the number matters and that there is a limit to how many can come to Denmark in the middle of this crisis. But now, according to Mr. Pelle Dragsted does not provide the opportunity to set the limit and mark the number of tools that will be used by Enhedslisten to regulate the number that will then also enable us as a society to keep up the cohesion power and that, in particular, the municipalities' economy can keep up. What tools do you want to use?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601140352	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601140353	Well, that's not an easy question. But some of what we have pointed out is something that requires international coordination. We have been saying, and we have been saying this for a long time, that there is a need for a key in the European Union. There are countries in the European Union that are losing it right now and that are not taking the responsibility, such as the United States. Denmark takes, or for that matter Sweden, which has taken a huge responsibility. We've been mocking that a bit, but when they couldn't anymore, it wasn't so much fun anymore. The fact is that the solution to this problem cannot be found in each country. This cannot be solved by wiping out the problem on our neighbouring countries. Oh, how ridiculous Sweden was when they took 100,000. We could also have been glad that the 100,000 were not in Denmark. It's unsolidarous. This is not a way to solve an international refugee crisis. So basically, it's all about screwing this whole thing up, and it's obviously about stopping the flow of refugees. We were asked whether we want as many refugees to Denmark as possible. No, we want as few as possible, because there should not be people at all who are forced to flee their own country.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601140455	Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601140458	Thank you. I do not think anyone disagrees with the need for international solutions and perhaps even European solutions are needed. But Mr. Pelle Dragsted does not admit that it is far off the horizon when the European countries cannot agree on anything, either a key or anything else. The only pan-European solution on which agreement has been reached and which is working, and perhaps that is where my question to Mr. Pelle Dragsted comes in and is the readmission agreement that we have with Turkey, which, although it is not perfect or sex, is, after all, a European solution that has been made with Turkey and which actually works, but which the Enhedslisten has also opposed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601140543	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601140544	Yes, we are very critical of that agreement, and this is because we believe it is at odds with the conventions, because, according to Denmark itself, Turkey did not ask us whether the Minister for Integration is a safe country of return. That's what you do. It is also because this intimate relationship with Turkey is deeply problematic. Turkey has been an important supporter of the Islamic State. They have allowed warriors for the Islamic State to run back and forth across the border and allow them to be treated in their hospitals. They are sending mortar grenades in these weeks and months over the areas that the Kurds control in northern Syria, which is one of the most important allies in the fight against the Islamic State. A short-term solution is being put in place, which can actually create even greater problems because we will have even more refugee flows afterwards. To this point, I would say that everyone is in favour of international solutions: no, we have a government that does not support a fixed distribution of refugees in Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601140643	Then it's mr. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601140646	Well, I'm afraid I don't have such a big circle of acquaintances, so I don't have any names that I can refer to, so this is going to be a very common question. I can see in Jyllands-Posten today that Enhedslisten is working with an idea of forming government with the SF and the Alternative, and presumably with the Social Democracy as a support party. What is it that you want to lure your new support party into the foreign debate, into the debate on foreigners and into the restrictions on foreigners? What is so on the agenda and ready for the Social Democratic Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601140720	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601140721	That's an exciting question. No, that is, there is no indication that after the next elections it will be possible and that is also what I said to Jyllands-Posten yesterday to imagine another government alternative. Here and now the choice we have is Mette Frederiksen or the Prime Minister, and that choice is not very difficult. Because it's been a mess with this government. I think most of us sitting over here feel that when we wake up in the morning and turn on the radio, we think a little bit: what is on the way now? So it's not a hard choice. What was my point and I actually think the speaker will agree with that was that right now there is a break-up politically. After all, we see that those parties which have historically always been the big ones and who have been in power, in other words those we call the old parties of power, are losing voters. The voters are flowing away from those parties and we see some new parties, including the speaker's own party, gaining ground. I think we need to recognise that there are some things in progress that can develop over the coming years and that can change the picture in Denmark, where the power monopoly that existed with the old system parties is not as strong as it was in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601140834	Here you go, sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601140836	Yeah, the idea that dream lasted only 7-8 hours, because since I read it in Jyllands-Posten, it's gone. That's okay, too. So if there is a change, it will be a social democratic government anyway. But it is still the problem of what is actually being done in relation to foreign policy. In other words, the Socialist Group chairman has said, as regards how many we can take, that it was closer to 1,000 than 10,000. I get that to about 4,999 as the highest number you can take. Will the Enhedslist also be able to support it? Is that a fair number? Because I also know that Enhedslisten himself believes that I have also heard various politicians from EL say that there is a limit to how many Denmark can take. Is that a reasonable limit, i.e. a maximum of 4.999?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601140929	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601140930	Compared to the first one, it is a dream: the kind of arrogance that we often experience, that there are some parties that have almost the first birthright to be those who are government-bearing, I do not really think the Danish People's Party should jump in. The Danish People's Party has been subjected to the ridicule of the parnass for many years, so I think we should really be happy that things are breaking up, and it is not only in Denmark, it is also if you look beyond the world that something is happening. People want things to be done in a new way, and I just think we should be happy about that. I think it would be good to get things upset, including at home. So it's not a dream, it's a vision. And I can see that there has been a lot of talk about the front page of Jyllands-Posten, but quite frankly: There is certainly nothing unusual in that one in the Enhedslisten, just as they do in all other parties, has a vision and a desire at any given time to be able to form government itself on the basis that one stands for. I think that is what all the parties in here are in favour of, even the Danish People's Party, and now I did not get to answer the question. But it may be that I will have the opportunity to do so afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601141030	Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601141032	Thank you for the floor. I think it is glorious that Enhedslisten's chief strategist occupies the Parliament's speaking chair, and I will follow up where my colleague, sir. Søren Espersen, let go. It is the case that Pelle Dragsted as chief strategist in Enhedslisten is probably allowed to go to Her Majesty the Queen when the next election is over and the Queen Round begins. And, as far as I understand the procedure, it is possible to make a condition for pointing out the royal investigator. Will the Enhedslisten with mr. Pelle Dragsted in the lead demands, as part of the Queen's Queen, that the above mentioned alien straits be rolled back, so put it as a condition for one to be able to support the Social Democratic Prime Minister's candidate as Head of Government in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601141114	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601141115	No.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601141120	Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601141122	Either that question hurt a little bit or you don't want to discuss it any further. I think it is a pity that Enhedslisten dreams at night and by day chooses to give up his ambitions. In other words, if we really wanted to achieve our ambitions to form a government of the so-called alternative majority, we could make a whole series of demands on the Socialists and Mrs Mette Frederiksen, and I hope that the Enhedslisten will do so. But is it to be understood as if what we can read in Jyllands-Posten is just an advanced form of invitation to couple therapy in the red block, or do you mean something concrete political with these thoughts other than to come into the media of course?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601141201	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601141202	I welcome the concern expressed by the Left's questioner for the Enhedslisten. No, I mean, to be honest, the interview I gave in Jutland-Posten didn't actually deal with the next election. It was about a perspective on how things can develop in Denmark, as we have seen in many other countries. What, then, about the next election? Yes, as I see it right now, we have two options. One is to point to Mette Frederiksen, and the other is to point to Lars Løkke Rasmussen, Prime Minister. And that choice is not difficult for Enhedslisten, not at all. Then I also think that I feel that way in this conversation in general, and I can then prepare the questioner for the questioner or other askers that I am not the one who sells live bear skins.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601141252	Thank you, and they say Mrs Mette Frederiksen and the Prime Minister. Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601141259	I'd like to ask Mr. Pelle Dragsted, if he agrees, that if the municipalities are to be able to properly increase the refugee effort, the welfare that will be cut in other places will be affected. Is Mr. Pelle Dragsted agrees with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601141318	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601141319	Yes, provided that we do not provide the municipalities with the necessary funds. However, if we can make an agreement today to cut the top of the battle aircraft purchases and perhaps roll back the corporate tax reductions that the rapporteur's party helped to implement a few years ago, then we will have more than room to fill the gap that is in the municipalities' boxes and cover the costs of the people who come here on the run. We do not think that it should affect the national pensionists' home help or the children's care in kindergarten that Denmark welcomes refugees. As I mentioned in my speech, we are a very, very prosperous society. Well, look at what was paid in dividends to Danish shareholders last year. At the risk of saying something wrong, I remember it as if it were 170 billion. kr. It's change we're talking about in this context. We are a major society, but we are not very good at distributing the wealth we have in a fair way. We can easily solve this challenge economically. Then it is clear that accepting many refugees creates challenges. I think that is important to everyone. The only question is whether the answer to that is to say that we will not help to meet those challenges and instead wipe them off on our neighbouring countries. I do not think that is a sensible way forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601141433	Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601141434	The reason I am asking is that we had a question debate on 26 May, and Mr. Rune Lund from Enhedslisten just the following: If the municipalities are to be able to properly raise the refugee effort, then welfare will be cut elsewhere. • If we now insist that what the rapporteur's colleague said the other day applies, will the rapporteur relate to which welfare areas are going to suffer when the increased expenditure on refugees is to be financed?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601141505	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601141506	That's a weird question. After all, the whole question debate was about the fact that the municipalities should have provided more funds, so that this situation was avoided. That's it, sir. Rune Lund said, and that is why we reached out to the Socialists and said: should we not try to make a joint decision, in which we say that the municipalities should be compensated for crowns for the money that they have in excess of the cost of refugees? But it is clear that if money is needed to lighten the tax on millionaires again in the autumn and to spend money to make sports cars cheaper, then we will be in a situation where priority must be given. It's just not Enhedslisten's policy. We believe that we can do both things because we are a rich society and we can afford it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601141548	Then it's Mrs. Merete Riisager, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601141550	Thank you. The rapporteur mentioned Susanne, who is mentally depressed and is having a really difficult time. I came to think of Valborg, who I once cared for at the nursing home Ringbo, and who felt so difficult that she needed care 24 hours a day. Susanne and Valborg are so fortunate that because they live in a liberal democracy in a country where capitalism and growth exist, society has become so prosperous that we can afford to take care of those who are in real difficulty. That is why I am surprised when I go into the Enhedslisten's programme of principles and see that it says: Capitalism stands in the way of freedom, security and democracy. Can the rapporteur mention a country where capitalism has been abolished and where Susanne and Valborg would have a better life than they have in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601141649	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601141650	No, but I can mention a group of countries where there has been historical tradition of putting strong ties on capitalism and has chosen to say that we are not really afraid to have a large and strong public sector and to tax the widest shoulders relatively hard, and that it has been said that health and education and such things are not something that the market has to deal with, because we actually think that we are doing better together. These countries are called the Nordic welfare societies. They are, of course, still capitalist countries, but they are quite different from capitalist countries, for example. a capitalist country such as China, which certainly does not have any liberal democracy or anything else. So in relation to this combination that capitalism necessarily brings democracy and prosperity, it is very different societies that are called capitalist. We want to develop Denmark further in this direction, in other words, where democracy is moving forward at the expense of market forces, so that we as citizens have something more to say.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601141756	Mrs. Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601141757	Does this mean that the Nordic countries are the final socialist vision, that is to say that it is the end product in which prosperity has been created in a socialist way and the best way to deal with the socially vulnerable? Recently, on Facebook, I asked the rapporteur whether he could mention precisely socialist-controlled countries that were well-functioning and where the weak citizens were doing well. Of course, I also thought of a country such as Venezuela, which has collapsed completely under a socialist regime. But it could be that sir... Pelle Dragsted had other examples of countries that were more socialist than Denmark and where the citizens and especially the socially vulnerable were doing better.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601141839	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601141840	The attempts that have been made with alleged socialist countries, for example. Under the Soviet regime and other things, we have never considered socialism. These were command economies, and it is not at all the kind of democratic socialism that Enhedslisten stands for. But are the Scandinavian welfare societies the final vision? No, and I certainly didn't say that either. But on the other hand, I think we can build on a great many of the things we have in Scandinavian welfare societies. Sometimes we talk as if we only have private capitalism in Denmark. It's not like that. We have a mortgage sector that has been owned by customers, we have had cooperatives and a public-run sector that runs our universities, hospitals and everything else. That part of the economy we want to roll forward and make stronger, so that the one there, what can be said, Goldman Sachs capitalism, which unfortunately we see developing, gets a little less to say.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601141935	Thank you. Mrs Mette Abildgaard, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601141938	Thank you. Now we have heard several from the Enhedslisten talk about the revolution coming. I recently heard that Mr. Frank Aaen had bet a box of beer that this would happen within 20 years. I've pulled a little bit of that on my smile tape and I've been thinking about it. Yesterday I saw in Jyllands-Posten that Enhedslisten warned to want to go into government, and then I thought: Oh, it's happening, and then I got really scared. I was able briefly to welcome the fact that I had not put children in a world in which private property would now be abolished and defended, and that, after all, was very good. I had not just foreseen that it might be the Radical Left that would become my rescuer, but I could read in the same article that they were out and reject this very, very blank. I would like to ask Mr. Pelle Dragsted: Who really are you supposed to be in government with? The President of the Alternative has also been out saying that it is not per. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is an extremely important report. What does Enhedslisten think?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601142041	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601142042	Those were incredibly many questions at once. However, I would like to start by saying that the rapporteur can be absolutely calm. There is no need to be afraid of anything coming from the Enhedslisten. By the way, I think it was sir. Per Clausen, who put a beer on when the revolution would come. Let me start by saying something about the revolution. There are so many misunderstandings about that concept. I have noticed that Bernie Sanders in the United States has talked a lot about the fact that the United States needs a political revolution because the growth that has been in the last 20 years has fallen into a tiny group at the top of society, in other words because economic interests are increasingly involved in politics. I am in favour of such a political revolution. I also think that it is a huge problem that, for example, we are dealing with. The author's party is currently negotiating a renewal of the tax conditions for A. P. Møller - Mærsk out in the North Sea. It is a company that, year after year, has donated an unfamiliar amount of money, how much we don't know, because you won't tell us how much you get to the very same parties that are sitting and negotiating. It's deeply worrying, and I'd like to do something like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601142148	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601142149	I can tell you that there are quite a lot of things about Enhedslisten's policy that can scare me as a citizen. My question was very specific: what government options will be sought for a forthcoming parliamentary election? There was no clear answer to that at all, and perhaps it is because there is basically a great deal of disagreement. The text adopted here is an exceptionally thin cup of tea. It is written that you can work together on education, health, climate and the environment. Will the Enhedslisten really be content to point to a Prime Minister's candidate, where these are the only political areas on which we can actually find common ground?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601142224	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601142225	Oh, I wish I had such 10 minutes of speaking time again so I could answer that question properly. Compared to what I could imagine after the next election, I think I have the answer. As the cards are now, we have a choice between either Mrs Mette Frederiksen or Lars Løkke Rasmussen, and we are not shaking our hand there. I think most people can see all the good reasons for this, only the consequences for vulnerable citizens and the environment, and what else has happened. What I have been talking about is that I feel this way forward-looking, and I think that is how all parties feel, including the Conservatives, even though of course they also have a former reign that if you can get into a situation where you have the support of the electorate to be able to form a government on its own basis, then of course it is the vision. I think it is for all of us, and it is also for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601142310	The Prime Minister is referred to as the Prime Minister. Then it's mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601142318	Thank you. After all, it is not every day that we have a new Prime Minister's candidate, and today we really have two, namely both Mrs Pernille Skipper and Mr Pernille Skipper. Uffe Elbæk. Because I understand at the Jyllands-Posten today that Mr. Pelle Dragsted has indicated that if these three parties, i.e. the Enhedslisten, the Alternative and the Socialist People's Party, become larger than the Social Democratic Party, then it can be interesting with this EAA government that sounds quite uncomfortable too, I think. I just can't really understand sir. Pelle Dragsted, when he has indicated to several other questioners that it may not be so topical anyway. So, Enhedslisten wants to own the PM post in Denmark after the next election, or does Enhedslisten not want it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601142406	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601142407	It's actually pretty simple. The Enhedslisten is set in the world to influence our society as much as possible in the direction we want. And from that point of view, we will always choose how we act in relation to the majority at any time. It is quite clear that in the next parliamentary elections we have a choice between continuing with the present Prime Minister, Mr. Lars Løkke, or with Mrs. Mette Frederiksen. And there's no reason to shake our hand. This government has been responsible for an endless series of mistakes. But it is clear that in the future the voters may be able to put together the Folketing in a way that allows Enhedslisten to go after the government power, so I can't really understand that. I think that the Danish People's Party should be careful not to become part of those old, arrogant power parties. You have experienced them yourself, and are you now to be one of those parties that say: Uh, there are some here who are not as good as others? I mean, when you say it sounds uncomfortable, I'd say that every five Danes vote for the three parties you're talking about. Should we not now respect the people and the choices made by the people instead of there? I don't think it suits us. Yeah, I'll stop it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601142522	There are so many challenges in such a debate, but the Rules of Procedure must be observed with the possible forms of indictment. It's the best you can do. Here you go, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601142532	Yeah, but I'm just gonna have to wonder again. For when is it then that Enhedslisten will claim to fill the PM's post or hand it over to Mr. Uffe Elbæk? Is it when the three parties have 90 seats or when? Or did Mr. Pelle Dragsted learned some special tricks during his trip to youth camp in Gaddafi's Libya? When is this going to be updated? I'd like to know. For those clues, like Mr. Pelle Dragsted must have learned in North Africa, maybe the rest of us could also get a little involved in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601142607	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601142608	I don't think I'm going to discuss too much youth camp right with mr. Berth. It's not about tricks and tips. It is about a vision, and it is about the fact that what we have experienced in recent times is that, whether we have had that or the other government, unfortunately, things have gone too far in the wrong direction. Whether the government has been so-called red or blue, inequality in our society has increased, welfare has deteriorated, such a control regime has been rolled across the public sector and conditions have deteriorated for our unemployed. We just feel that this development is not what we want. We want a different development and we can see that there are some parties in the Folketing with which we have a large political community and, in fact, also a community of values. Perhaps even a community on how to conduct policy and that one could do it in a new way. And there we clearly have a vision to get as far as possible. But in the end it is the Danes who put together the Folketing and decide who can form government. And I have full respect for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601142718	Then it's Mrs. Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601142720	Thank you. I listened to the rapporteur's speech with interest and I understand that the rapporteur is concerned about the local economy. I also noted that the rapporteur, among others, was: in writing. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent report. Perhaps the rapporteur could tell us what schools are to be closed down in Assens.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601142750	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601142751	I haven't talked about Assens. It must be another rapporteur with whom the questioner confuses me.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601142759	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601142800	Then perhaps it was one of the rapporteur's colleagues from the Enhedslisten. However, the rapporteur could not tell us a little about the consequences of this. What kind of schools do you want to close out there? I assume you must have discussed it in the Enhedslisten circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601142815	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601142817	Now I have perhaps been a little nervous and concerned about going to the platform, and frankly I have to admit that I have not actually heard that question, so I have no idea whether it comes from one of my fellow Members or not. But I can try to answer more generally. We are extremely concerned that when the government comes with what is called the re-prioritisation contribution we call it the downgrading contribution and take up a billions of the municipalities' coffers year by year, it will of course result in some violent deterioration out there. And that is not a view that we are left alone with. The mayors of the left are, after all, some of those who have taken the lead in the protests. There have been demonstrations in nearly 100 cities, and under many of them the Left's own mayors spoke and said: Stop it there. This is going to undermine our welfare. We've cut to the bone, we can't cut any deeper.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601142903	Thank you to the rapporteur. And that was the last question that time has passed. Then it is Simon Emil Ammitzbøll as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601142915	Denmark is a lovely country for which we live and breathe. It should be good to live here, it should be good to grow up here, here it should be good to do business. That is the way it should be in the future. However, Denmark is facing two major crises: the growth crisis and the migration crisis. If we want, we can get Denmark out of both crises, but it takes more than fine words. It requires action, it requires will, and it requires the courage to make decisions too. The Liberal Alliance supports the current government, but let it be said immediately: the government's finest achievement so far is enough that it has hutted through the Folketing for a whole year. Well, we are happy with some of the results that have been achieved, such as: lower registration fee, lower NOx tax, lower inheritance tax, ceiling on housing taxes, better opportunity for remuneration with employee shares, increased support for free and private schools, securing fixerums for drug addicts and many other good things. But if we look at what is really batting, namely to restart the Danish economy and ensure that we manage the migration flow, then expectations have been greater than the results. It is well said that the joy of expectation is the greatest of all, and my goodness, we rejoice in the Liberal Alliance. For what an exciting autumn we face. Tax and reform must be negotiated that can kick off growth, and the ambition of the Liberal Alliance is to be like the prince of the white reformer who comes and saves the welfare princess of her thorny sleep. A vanet bear has grown high, but we are not going to wait for 100 years. The Liberty Sword is to free the princess and she and all the queen kingdom must experience growth, prosperity and welfare to the joy of women, men and children. The Danes are a friendly people. We should be happy about that. But sometimes we get so friendly that we just smile and pretend. We imagine and pull our mouths up and think ours. One cannot help being happy when one is told that we belong to the happiest people in the world. Even though the individual may be upset, exhausted, stressed, depressed, or quite unhappy. We are also delighted when we are told how fantastic a country Denmark is to operate in the OECD even though there are more countries in the OECD than I have fingers and toes on my hands and feet that have higher economic growth than Denmark. Because we're not alone friendly. We are also wary of conflict, and who will destroy the good atmosphere? I have to apologize in advance, but I will. Because never has any country been so high on so many lists and got so little out of it. Yes, we celebrate one top ranking after another on all the charts of the world. But for some reason it never really translates into growth, prosperity, and welfare. Denmark has had the fifth lowest growth in the OECD since 1995, and it doesn't look much better when we look out on the horizon. OECD predicts that Denmark will have the sixth lowest growth by 2030. So it is essential that we are in a crisis of growth. That is why we need to get the reforms under way. The tax on work must be reduced and we must have met the Government's ambition to lower the top tax. Furthermore, the Liberal Alliance has an ambition that no one who goes to work should pay tax on the first DKK 7,000 he or she earns per month. No one can be expected to contribute to supporting others until one can support oneself. At the same time, we want to ensure that working pays better. The difference between a low-wage job and passive support should be greater, and finally there is an easy fruit to pick: Danes have to retire a little later than they do today. We want to remove bureaucracy and rules so that it becomes easier for the Danes to live the life they want and create growth to the delight of themselves and the common. From the end of the 1800s until the crisis, Denmark had an economic growth of an average of 2%. a year. From 2008 to 2015, the Danish gross domestic product decreased by 0.4 per cent. Over the same period, Sweden's GDP increased by 11%. We need to get Denmark into a higher growth gear. We can if we want. It requires only 90 mandates in this high thing, and the Liberal Alliance is happy to deliver the 13 first and look forward to negotiating with our partners in the autumn so that we can deliver solutions for the benefit of the Danes. The Danes are not alone facing a growth crisis. We are also facing a migration crisis. Of course, we are not alone in this. There is a terrible civil war going on in Syria that has sent millions of people to flee. There are other millions from Africa and Asia who want a better life and have set themselves in motion against Europe. But the whole world cannot live in Europe and half the world cannot live in Denmark. In 2014, 14,792 asylum seekers came to Denmark. In 2015, 21,225 asylum seekers came to Denmark. This year the government is budgeting 25,000 asylum seekers. Of course we must help, but more people are coming and applying for asylum in these years than Denmark can handle. That is why the Liberal Alliance has proposed a humane moratorium on asylum. It means a stop in order to be able to seek asylum spontaneously in Denmark itself for 2 years. During the same period, 4 000 UN quota refugees are to be taken a year, and the many saved expenses in the area of asylum will be used to help in Syria and in the vicinity of Syria, people who need protection, people who are starving, children who need schooling. In this way, we can help far more people. It is the most humane thing, and we can ensure that Denmark does not have to integrate more than we can overcome. The ideal solution is, of course, still European. We want to strengthen the EU's external borders significantly, but until sustainable and lasting European solutions are created, national solutions are needed. If we hesitate, there will be a great deal to pay; specifically for the municipalities, specifically for more people outside the labour market, and specifically for more integration problems. The good news is that, as with the growth crisis, we can also resolve the migration crisis in Denmark, if we want to. This requires new thinking, and it requires the courage to take unconventional decisions: tax relief on top and bottom, a humane asylum freeze. These are the most important issues facing Denmark. These are the most important cases in the autumn. The Prime Minister has said that it is not possible to solve all Denmark's problems by lowering the top tax or by reducing the number of asylum seekers. That is absolutely correct. But it helps. Oh, my God! But I agree with the Prime Minister that we should not settle. More reforms are needed, so Denmark becomes a country in growth and harmony, so Denmark becomes a country that young people from all over the world want to try to live in, because this is so great. We can do that if we want to. The Liberal Alliance will. We are ready to negotiate with good ideas and solutions. We are ready to take responsibility. We are playing with open cards, and now we are waiting for the government to play out and show that together we can deliver solutions to the problems of the growth crisis and migration crisis for the benefit of the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601143831	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we will have brief comments for a maximum of 45 minutes. The first brief remark is from Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601143841	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteur for the many language blossoms. I mean, there was a part of them. Now, in the rapporteur's speech, I noticed that there was a great deal of talk about the need to lower taxes and reduce top taxes in particular. That's why I'd like to ask you a question. The rapporteur's party chairman, Mr. Anders Samuelsen, on 25 June 2015, said to Danmarks Radio in connection with the talk about whether top tax relief should be part of the government base that: "A government can overturn itself by not listening to its parliamentary basis. ▪ A year has almost passed and the Liberal Alliance has not been granted top tax relief yet. Does the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance still believe that a government can overthrow itself if it does not deliver the announced top tax concessions?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601143927	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601143929	Our views are well known. We are not going to repeat them week after week. We look forward to negotiations with the government this autumn.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601143937	Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601143939	Thanks for not answering that question. So let me come up with follow-up questions. Does this answer mean that the Liberal Alliance really no longer has such a strong desire for top tax relief in the autumn if it is no longer felt that a government can overthrow itself if it does not provide the announced top tax concessions?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601143957	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601143959	There were a little plenty of interpretations. But let me be clear: there will be a good solution tomorrow I do not think it will come, but in the autumn. And we'll find out with our partners who we're happy to work with.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601144017	Then it's mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601144020	Thank you, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll. I hope the Left are some of them, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll on his proud white hallway with the banner of freedom, and whatever else came out of beautiful glossaries, will be happy to cooperate with. One of the things we are going to discuss is tax relief, which is a subject which lies with Mr Seligman. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll's heart is close and also mine for that matter. How can it be that the Liberal Alliance was not involved in reintroducing the housing job scheme when we adopted it last summer?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601144052	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601144054	I also wondered whether there was a metaphor for the Left in the fairy tale, but chose the welfare society instead of as a princess, because I thought it would create some wrong pictures with the questioner and Prime Minister if it were the Left who was the princess. On the question, I would like to say that the Liberal Alliance takes the view that we believe that taxes should be reduced in general so that citizens and businesses can decide for themselves what they want to spend their own money on, rather than having to choose certain things politically for which the money must be spent. In other words, I am talking about the intervention which the Left prefers and which we are not so much in favour of. But I have to be honest and admit that I think there are a lot of people who like it. The day you completed it with the Alternative and Enhedslisten, I got a text from my husband, who was very excited. He said, "We've got tax breaks, and you haven't even given them to us."
ParlaMint-DK_20160601144148	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601144150	As for the image of the Prime Minister and myself as princesses, I have just received a crown from my colleague Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen. It was, however, an enclave and not a crown of kings. But the housing job scheme is a tax relief. How can the Liberal Alliance be against tax cuts when we are about to talk about tax cuts in the autumn? I hope that Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll remains ambitious in this area. Many of us want to be. Then why is this tax relief against us? I simply do not understand that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601144222	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601144224	I am incredibly pleased with the break-up which I understand there is from the Left that there will be pressure on the Liberal Alliance for further tax cuts in the autumn. I don't want you to hear an evil word for that. But with the housing job scheme it is very simple, because the housing job scheme is a symbol of everything that does not work in the Danish tax system. The taxes are far too high, and then you choose to always find places where you put the taxes a little down to repair the accident. But I would like to say to Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, I think that we should make Denmark better and create a new tax system instead of constantly patching up what does not work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601144300	Then it's Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601144303	Thank you very much. Until a few weeks ago, after all, we had a majority in this Chamber who wanted the documents of the closed-down Iraq Commission to be presented. It was, of course, the Liberal Alliance's own proposal, and I think it was a very good proposal, because it is clear that there are still many unanswered questions in this case. In particular, it can be said that this is the issue of hundreds of people being extradited to an uncertain fate, although we know that there was widespread torture in Iraqi prisons. I can understand why the Left and the Government have been willing to go quite a long way to shut down this discussion. I would like to hear the rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance explain how a party that talks about openness can be consumed with such an historic statement, which does not relate at all to the very core of what happened to the prisoners during the Iraq war. Is this really how we should understand the interpretation by the Liberal Alliance of maximum openness in the public sector?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601144410	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601144411	Now I think the questioner forgets that the Liberal Alliance actually went to the polls that there should not be an Iraq Commission after the elections. We have, in fact, gone to the polls on this. That's the way it is now. So we have achieved that. In addition, we thought it would be a pity if the documents made available to the Commission were simply lost, because then there could be an expectation that someone was trying to keep something hidden. That is why we said in the first place that we should put them forward. What we had to admit, unfortunately, was that there were probably a large part of the documents which would not be fully open if that model had been chosen. Now, instead of making sure that there is an historic statement, in which all the documents available to the Iraq and Afghanistan Commission will also be available to the historians and political scientists who will be carrying out the new investigation. There is not a single document that will not be available. In this way, perhaps as the only party in the Folketing in this matter, the Liberal Alliance has got exactly what we wanted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601144514	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601144516	I would like to stress that there is absolutely nothing in the statement that will make it possible to examine what was going on in relation to the prison management and that we will not be able to clarify anything there and have any openness about it. However, I understand from the Minister for Justice that he is of the opinion that it is not necessary to bring these documents forward, because everything has been completely clarified, including the handling of prisoners. I would like to hear from the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance whether that is also the position of the Liberal Alliance, in other words that everything has come out in this matter and that no new scandals will arise in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601144549	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601144551	I can't guess that last one for good reasons. I certainly wouldn't dare. It may be that the questioner is more brave than I am and so much respect for it. But our starting point is that it should be possible to do a study with all these papers. After all, there are no limits to the fact that there is something not to be investigated. The papers are there and they are available to historians and politicians, and then we will see what they come up with.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601144614	Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601144617	I understand that the Liberal Alliance refuses to repeat its views. It sounds like such a good advice for a TV debate with Clement Kjersgaard, namely that instead of repeating the question simply refuse to repeat its views. Nevertheless, I do have a need to say that I think it is a bad thing for Mr Seligman to say. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll to start his speech in exactly the same way as I had planned, namely to congratulate the government on its survival, but then not really with so much else. Then I came to think that it was nevertheless strange that two parties, one of which is parliamentary basis and the other in opposition, could have the same introduction to such a speech as today. Many may be amused by this, but nevertheless there is just the difference that Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll and the Liberal Alliance promised something else, namely that when they were given the decisive mandates, we should really see dada. I guess it wasn't about a single white horse, but I guess it was the old story about the red horses. They rode that way, and they brought Tove, because now it really needs gas. Unfortunately, however, the reality is that reforms have become nothing. Where the SR government made reforms that increased employment by 26,000 well and well, hardly anything has come in the past year when the Liberal Alliance has had power as they had been watching. But where did it go?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601144736	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601144738	It can be said in this way that when both an opposition party and a support party agree that not enough has happened, perhaps there is something about the talk. Because not enough has happened. Surely there should be no doubt about that. But patience is a virtue, even though it may sometimes be difficult to live by. I just have to say that the parliamentary term is not over yet, and we are looking forward, as I said earlier, to autumn and we have to negotiate with the Prime Minister about Denmark's future, and yes, I was just about to say something more. So we look forward to that, and there we think results will be delivered, because we think the Prime Minister would like that. He has a rapporteur who has apparently said that we are not ambitious enough in terms of tax policy, and that is the best I have heard today. So I'm excited, and I think that Mr. Morten Østergaard can also begin to look forward to seeing the results.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601144830	Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601144834	I even hope to be able to contribute to the results, certainly, because there we have a long and glorious history, both under governments in which we ourselves did not participate, and governments in which we ourselves were sitting. Because that is the way we have tried to use our influence. And I've been looking forward to today, because sir... Simon Emil Ammitzbøll and I have an outstanding opening debate. Well, I've been hiding it all over the past parliamentary year. Because what we were talking about at the time was exactly the same thing, namely what the level of ambition really should be. Now, in all the time I was a minister, I have always been mocked by the Liberal Alliance that we were unambitious because we only made reforms for up to this 30,000. Now we have a parliamentary year in which we have a government that has succeeded in increasing the range of work by perhaps 1,000. How do you describe such a government in the optics of the Liberal Alliance?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601144932	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601144934	At any rate, I can say that the part that has been increased is to be thanked for the Liberal Alliance. It's a start. But I'm just gonna give Mr. Knox. Morten Østergaard is absolutely right. We are not up in the growth and reform gear that we need to be in. It's a confession case, isn't it? We've told the government. It would like to postpone it for six months, so after a little friendly screenshots, we have agreed that this will happen in the autumn. And then we'll have to take that. However, as I said before, the parliamentary term is not over and I think the result will be quite fine.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601145007	Then it's mr. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601145009	I would like to follow up a question from Mrs Eva Flyvholm concerning the Iraq Commission. I have had the great pleasure of taking part in a good course of negotiations with the Minister of Justice and Mrs Mette Bock of the Liberal Alliance on an investigation which is precisely not a substitute for the Iraq Commission. However, I think the rapporteur is slipping off a little on the issue that comes from Mrs Eva Flyvholm. One thing is that the Liberal Alliance did not want the Iraq Commission. Another thing is that I think it is rather wrong to invoke the right of full openness at the same time. It is true that the investigation we have started and which I think will be very valuable to Denmark will shed light on many things. But it does not have the legal and international dimension. This is partly due to the fact that the Liberal Alliance did not want the Iraq Commission. Otherwise, there would actually be a majority. So I think that transparency is somehow indexed in the rapporteur's speech. It is certainly not full transparency if you do not want the legal and international law to be included in a Commission, so we will therefore end up in an analysis as the first step.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601145119	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601145121	I am extremely sorry that the Liberal Alliance has failed to fulfil the promises of the Enhedslisten and the Alternative. But we have fulfilled our own. I can stand by that in the face of the 275 000 people who voted for the Liberal Alliance. The fact that there are others who have other wishes than those we have cannot be my responsibility. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601145148	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601145151	I fully agree with that. All I want to talk about here is this complete openness. So you do not get it when you renounce the right to Danish soldiers, Danish veterans, the countries in which we have been at war, and we politicians gain insight into what has actually been the basis for our participation in war. We will only get that on that day when we have international law and legal responsibility placed. Having said that, I am looking forward to our historical analysis, but these are two different things, and therefore I do not think that the Liberal Alliance can say that it wants full transparency about Denmark's participation in the war.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601145225	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601145227	These are two different things. We are in complete agreement on this. It is the case that if the resolution that we had originally tabled had been adopted, it is our view today that there would still be certain restrictions on how much would come out fully and openly because it was not possible to present it all. That is why we thought it would be wiser to have the agreement that we have made with great pleasure with Mr Seligman. René Gade and the alternative. That is actually why the alternative is included in the agreement, isn't it? Then it may be that the alternative and other parties have other additional requests in addition to what we have agreed on. You have to fight to get a majority in the Folketing for that. It may happen someday, and then we'll have to take it from there.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601145308	Then it's mr. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601145310	Thank you for that, and thank you for a rapporteur's speech full of zeal. It is always a pleasure to hear the rapporteur. Now I asked a little at Dansk Folkeparti about the possibilities for Dansk Folkeparti to participate in top tax reliefs in the autumn, and they answered something weird, I would say. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl said that before one could ever deliver a majority to it, the core welfare should be in place without then defining when it was, and then they should be put at the bottom. I would just like to hear: does the rapporteur agree with the considerations that they should be placed at the bottom, i.e. that tax cuts should be made at the bottom before they are made at the top? And should the core welfare be in place first?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601145353	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601145355	I also listened to both Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl's speech and answer. I always do, because it's always a pleasure to listen to you. It is so that I agree that it is important that the core welfare is in order. That is what we in the Liberal Alliance think. We think it is a pity that the public sector is also spending money on a lot that is not core welfare. But we do think it is essential that there are good hospitals, that there are good education, that there is a proper social safety net. That is absolutely crucial for the Liberal Alliance. We're just saying you gotta get the money, too. The money is raised through growth, and we know that if you are going to have growth, top tax relief is one of the best ways to do it. Another good way to do something is to look at the registration fee. We've talked about this before. So there are good ways to get there. Again: I have it with the Danish People's Party, as I do with the Left. I look forward to having to sit and find solutions with our good partners this autumn. We have good experience of this, including from the Finance Act. I guess we'll find each other. I think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601145455	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601145457	I have learned that simple questions and closed questions have to be asked in order to get answers in here, so now I will try two of these. Does the Liberal Alliance prefer relief from the tax at the top or at the bottom, and is there a deadline for when the Liberal Alliance has completed their top tax relief cases by the end of this parliamentary term?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601145518	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601145520	We expect relief to come both at the top and at the bottom. We have gone to elections on both sides, and we have been pleased to see that the government has written into its government basis that it will both. We fully support that. When have our issues been completed? Well, some of the people we're talking about here, it's our firm conviction that this autumn we'll agree with the government and others to find solutions to. So that's what we're going for.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601145546	Then it's Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601145547	On 11 January this year, Mr. Anders Samuelsen to BT: I have received a call from the Minister for Finance, and he guarantees me that the government will, of course, live up to its government basis. As long as he guarantees it to me, I'll also give you a guarantee that the government is alive. ▪ Onward, Mr. Anders Samuelsen: Claus Hjort has just told me that there will be a tax debate in the spring. He has also assured me that there will be tax cuts both at the top and at the bottom. We are now in June, and I really think it is interesting to hear whether the Liberal Alliance means this by holding hands under the government. After all, no negotiations have yet been convened. There is no prospect of relief. Does the Liberal Alliance mean anything at all about threatening to overthrow the government, or are they just words?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601145645	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601145646	When I examine my soul, I also remember that there was a little curfew between the government and the Liberal Alliance at the beginning of the year, but sometimes you are saved by other things. Because it is in politics, as it is in private life, that sometimes a small crisis can be good, and there came the agricultural package negotiations as sent from heaven. For suddenly the crisis was quite different from the one between the Left and the Liberal Alliance, and there was also the possibility that we could take care of our relations again. It is our feeling that, after that crisis, the Liberal Alliance and the Left have entered a much better stage, and we very much welcome this, just as we look forward to the negotiations in the autumn.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601145732	Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601145733	In other words, one cannot help thinking that the government, the Finance Minister and the Prime Minister have the Liberal Alliance exactly where they want the Liberal Alliance. Despite countless threats to overthrow the government, it seems time and again that the government is able to speak the Liberal Alliance in its place. That is why my question to the rapporteur is whether he himself believes that the government will live up to the government's basis in terms of tax relief at the top as early as the autumn, which is what the Liberal Alliance claims over and over again.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601145819	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601145820	Yes, I think so, and I would say that I agree with the rapporteur that the government has the Liberal Alliance exactly where they want the Liberal Alliance, that is, on the other side of the chin with the sword, which allows us to get out of our thornsleep and that growth can resume. That's exactly where the government wants us to be, and there we are. I can promise the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601145842	Then it's mr. Kaare Dybvad.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601145845	Thank you and thank the rapporteur for the lyrical introduction. I am not, of course, the one who says that the Liberal Alliance is a little adventurous in its policy in general, but I will nevertheless try to get the rapporteur a little into the concrete. On September 18, last year, Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll the following: "Try to hear: We must have reduced the top tax. And I think we're gonna get that, too. And I think that, among other things, because Lars Løkke knows how important this is to us. We will be faced with exactly as hard a demand as we did when the government was formed in June. We have supported a government that has top tax relief on its programme. It was a prerequisite then, and it will be in the spring too. ▪ My question to the rapporteur is then whether the top tax concessions contained in the government programme are enough for the Liberal Alliance, or whether you want additional top tax relief in addition to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601145938	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601145938-2	I still think that the Socialists are turning the rhetoric up. One obviously has a feeling that the blue parties will find each other in the autumn, so one will hear whether we are going to turn up the demands so that some sort of unrest can be maintained in the blue block. Well, I think it's very well tried, but anyway, I would say to Mr. Kaare Dybvad, maybe it's right on the smart side.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601150001	Sir. Kaare Dybvad.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601150002	If we stay in the lyrical, one can quote Hans Christian Andersen as saying that it is the drop that caves the stone. So I will try again to ask whether the rapporteur can confirm that top tax relief in the autumn is a prerequisite for the Liberal Alliance to support the government the year out.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601150019	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601150020	As I said to the fellow Member of the questioner earlier in the debate, our views are well known. We have decided that we will not say them again week after week, but we are sure that we will find good solutions with our partners this autumn. I have to say in parentheses that I am so envious of the Socialists that they have such good researchers so that they can find quotes from everything between heaven and earth. I think that if I now give a sponsorship or a round, could one imagine that the Liberal Alliance could borrow a little, because we would also be happy to put some quotes in the noses of Mrs Mette Frederiksen to a greater extent, perhaps?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601150100	Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601150101	Thank you. Now it is the rapporteur's own statement that needs to be quoted, and that is that I heard the rapporteur say thank you in his rapporteur's speech. Moreover, I am grateful for the well thought-out style in general, and it is always refreshing in the middle of the afternoon that the difference between pay and cash aid must be greater. I have also heard the rapporteur's party colleague, Mr President. Joachim B. Olsen, say that LA has the same desires when we talk about the difference between the daily allowance and the salary it must also be larger. The Prime Minister's announcement here a few hours ago, when one of the seven challenges, in the Prime Minister's view, is that we have some fairly generous transfer income. It was in any case a literal quote. I would just like to ask how much cash benefits and cash benefits should be reduced before LA is satisfied? Is it a requirement that LA will make in the financial law negotiations and a requirement that must be met as a precondition for concluding a financial law agreement that cash benefits and cash benefits will be reduced? And are there any other transfer income that LA would also like to see reduced and tightened up on the same occasion?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601150216	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601150217	Finally, when he quoted the Prime Minister, the rapporteur said that it was at least correctly quoted. It was good that the rapporteur said this because I said something a little different in my rapporteur's speech. I said that the difference should be greater between going to work and being on transfer income. That's right. You can do that in a number of ways. I think that the most obvious way to make that difference is to ensure that people who go to work do not have to pay so much tax on the first money. That is why I gave the example and said: No one who goes to work has to pay tax on the first DKK 7,000. a month. This really is a socially balanced proposal. It is a proposal that increases the difference between being in work and being under passive support, so it will have incredibly many good effects. I actually thought that Enhedslisten was in favour of something similar.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601150310	Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601150311	The rapporteur did not answer my question, but should it be interpreted as meaning that LA does not require the reduction of cash benefits and allowances, and that it is therefore said: OK, now it has reached as low a level as it should have, and that is fine, so we do not? That is one question The second question is: how will LA finance the tax cuts both at the bottom and at the top? If this does not happen by reducing transfer income, where should you find the money? Is it, then, cutting expenditure in the area of welfare?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601150348	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601150348-2	We have not put forward a proposal to do anything about the daily allowance, but it is clear, and it is known, that we want a lower rate of cash assistance than there is today. I would like to answer that because we want it. For cash benefits must be a short, temporary benefit until you get back to work. Where will we fund it? Yeah, that's gonna do a lot of places. I mean, we're gonna do it. efficiency of the public sector by 1%. a year and thus find a number of billions to make sure that there is money to make the tax cuts that enable us to get growth going. 'Cause if we don't get growth going, I'd say to Mr. Kim. Finn Sørensen, we can stop discussing welfare, because then there is no welfare to distribute in the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601150432	Then it's mr. Erik Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601150433	Thank you. I would like to continue with what we have said on a number of occasions, namely that the Liberal Alliance attaches great importance to getting the top tax relief through. Now Simon Emil Ammitzbøll said a little about the fact that we were good at finding quotes, so I would like to mention that just last Saturday Ole Birk Olesen said: if the government is not willing to give us the tax cuts, although it is both economically and politically sensible and the demand is very small, compared to how much money is on the table, then there is something wrong with the government, and then it does not deserve to be government, and then we pull the blanket away under the government. How are we supposed to perceive this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601150515	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601150516	As it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601150520	Sir. Erik Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601150521	In other words, if there are no top tax concessions in this autumn's negotiations, does the Liberal Alliance withdraw the carpet under the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601150529	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601150530	I am considering whether I should ask for an e-mailing list for the Social Democratic Parliamentary Group, so I get all 46 Members on it, because then I can just send the answer. Because I have answered Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, I have answered Mr. Kaare Dybvad, and now I am answering Mr. Erik Christensen, and I would like to reply the same thing again. Our views are known; we do not intend to repeat them week after week, but they stand as they are. However, we are sure that we will find a good agreement with our partners this autumn.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601150605	Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601150612	The reason why we are a little interested in this is because we are parties that think that it would be deeply antisocial to spend money on top tax incentives at a time when you can see that there are 17 children per year. teachers and a wide range of challenges out there with e.g. older people who do not receive the care they need, etc. That is why we are asking about it, because we are quite interested to hear whether there is a majority. And there the Socialists have announced that it will certainly not be their mandates that will ensure this. We could not really get an answer from Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. It was such a bit that he did not like it so much, but that nothing was written in stone etc. That is why we are interested in knowing how far the Liberal Alliance will go in this matter, and that is why we are asking. I think it is reasonable to have an answer from the party's rapporteur, who is on the floor of Parliament, to know whether this means so much to the Liberal Alliance that the curtain will be pulled away under the government. Before the rapporteur says that many people have asked, I would like to say that we would just like a definitive answer as to whether this is a cabinet issue, a question of life or death for the government in relation to the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601150727	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601150728	I would also like to put SF members of parliament on the mailing list if it is to be. Let me put it this way: we look forward to negotiating with our partners. We will do so in the autumn and a good solution will be found. I am convinced of that. I said in my speech that the Danes are a friendly people. I myself am also trying to be an incredibly friendly person to all the many questions you ask. But I also said that we sometimes imagine a little. And I think a little, if I'm to be honest, that the questioners imagine a little. The questioners pretend that there is interest and concern, but in reality there is just a burning desire for it to collapse, so that the questioners can again take over power in this country, and that is a perfectly legitimate purpose, but that is what this is all about. Why don't we be honest and say it? Well, I don't get a mailbox filled with complaints from LA voters. So I'll take care of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601150837	Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601150838	But the rapporteur is absolutely right: there is nothing we want more than a change of government. There is nothing we want more than a deep anti-social tax reform. It's no secret. I cannot understand why the rapporteur is running for some kind of conspiracy. That is clearly what we want. Therefore, we are also interested in knowing how firm in the meat DF is and how firm in the meat Liberal Alliance is. And when we count the mandates together, what will be the result? For we are some who are very interested in the political outcome too: what is the tax reform that will be the result in the autumn, or will there be anyone at all? And when the rapporteur does not want to answer, I just have to conclude that it is the same as it has always been, namely that it is ultimate for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601150925	Then the rapporteur answers.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601150926	It can be said that Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen's conclusion will not change the outcome. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen can in fact conclude exactly what she wants. This will have no effect on the outcome. And I also think it is incredibly nice that it finally came out: it is about thinking: can we not put lice in the fur coat so that we can make the blue parties have a bad relationship and we can regain power ourselves? That is quite fair, and Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen admitted this, and it is wonderful that there is an honesty from the SF, which perhaps was not quite so clear with the partners. I think it's nice that SF is a party that takes the lead and tells us what we're really talking about. Thank you, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601151007	Then it's Yildiz Akdogan.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601151008	Thank you. I can confirm that I think the rapporteur is a very kind person, and that is why it is also a pity that the rapporteur is slightly irritated by a rather relevant issue. In the last few months we have heard, among other things. The President threatened the government that the government would be overthrown if top tax relief were not provided. The rapporteur's colleague, Mr Seligman, is most recently present. Ole Birk Olesen, also pulled the threat card when he said in an interview in Berlingske on Saturday: Well then we pull the blanket off under the government. Then the rapporteur stands and speaks, yes, actually entertains the platform of top tax relief, and that top tax is so important again-again. And then the rapporteur just says: well, we are waiting for the government to play out, we believe that results will be delivered. What if results are not delivered, what if there is not a good solution in the autumn? Is the rapporteur's party ready to withdraw the carpet under the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601151110	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601151111	Now I praised the Socialist press service earlier, but I would like to withdraw it a little, because I understand that we now have to hear the same quotes several times, because this was also asked from someone else about exactly the same quote before. But fair enough. I'd say I'm not at all irritable. I think it's a party. The Social Democrats can just ask around, you can keep doing that. After all, this is important for Denmark, and it is basically about whether the Social Democrats and combatants should be allowed to fertilize the hack of thorns again, so that Denmark can continue in the sleep of thorns, or whether we should tackle the reforms, break down the habit of thinking and ensure that Denmark grows. Because we have very great challenges in relation to Denmark, as I said before, having had the fifth lowest growth in the period 1995-2015 throughout the OECD. There are only four countries that have made it worse in terms of growth, namely Portugal, Greece, Japan and Italy. That is what has been delivered by the policy so far. We're trying to deliver something that works.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601151219	Yildiz Akdogan.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601151220	I can tell the rapporteur that I have been taking notes and quoting from the rapporteur's own statement, just waiting for the government to play out and believe that results will be delivered. This is important for Denmark, but it is obviously also important for the Liberal Alliance, because we have heard nothing but the word top tax relief. I would like to hear about something: will this be an ultimate demand from the Liberal Alliance in relation to the negotiations with the government? Just a short yes or no.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601151250	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601151251	When misquoted, I have to correct it. We have heard more than the desire for top tax relief on the part of the Liberal Alliance. It is true that top tax relief is extremely important, but we also have a wish that no one who goes to work should pay tax on the first DKK 7.000. It is quite unreasonable that you should be involved in supporting others before you support yourself. It is important for the future of Denmark that we have some solutions made here. That is why we can afford proper education, that is why we can afford proper health, that is why we can afford a social safety net. We need to get Denmark into gear, and the Liberal Alliance is the knight on the white horse who comes and saves the welfare princess from the thorny sleep.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601151336	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601151339	I should now like to breathe so that the rapporteur can also breathe. What does it really take for the Liberal Alliance to realise that free market economy and wild growth are actually the way to our end on this planet and the way to us smash the globe? So, I mean, is the climate debate and the debate on how much we have polluted so far, because we have let the forces drift and have had only one bottom line, go all the way over the rapporteur's head? Or what does it look like? Where have the climate considerations and consideration of our planet gone? If it's just a bee, it's in the footnotes, or where's it in the Liberal Alliance program?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601151425	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601151426	Now it's always exciting to be lectured on the matter of smashing the globe of a former member of the Communist Party of Denmark, because if anyone has destroyed the globe with both specific human life and the environment, it is probably the communist world movement. It is the greatest disaster for humanity that has been, without exception, in the history of the world. In relation to the issue of climate: this is also an important matter for us. We just don't think that the way to solve it in concrete terms is very clever. The way climate policy is conducted here in Denmark moves pollution from Denmark to other countries to a large extent. We believe that we should instead follow the economic wise men, among them. Peter Birch Sørensen has argued that you should be able to buy CO2 This is actually the smartest solution. It is known that this is the wisest solution, so why not do it instead of self-inflicting pain on Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601151530	Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601151531	When I was young, there was something we called buying socialism. It was the Social Democrats' model of ED. There wasn't much out of it. Nor is there much point in starting to introduce a principle of buying climate or purchasing ecology. After all, there needs to be a very firm control, both in terms of production, pollution and so on. It is of no use that we say: if it is just the others who are polluting, we do not have to do so, and then we can let the market economy control it. The market economy cannot take this into account. Does the Liberal Alliance not understand that at all? We're gonna go straight into sorry I'm gonna tell you hell if we don't figure this out.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601151614	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601151614-2	Listen, we have to do what works best. What works best is two things. It is 1) to buy CO2 It is 2) to increase research into environmental technologies. That is the answer of the Liberal Alliance. I know that the broad majority of the Folketing wants to tax the Danes right into the place that Mr. Christian Juhl mentioned, but which I will not mention. That is why Danish consumers are paying Europe's highest energy prices; that is why we are currently struggling with PRS taxes and such things. That is because the vast majority has not been committed to what works, but to what is tormenting.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601151703	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll and goes on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Ammitzbøll. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601151718	Today's debate marks not only the end of the parliamentary year, but also the end of the first year of the Alternative as a political party here at Christiansborg, and this naturally gives rise to a lot of reflection, both about cooperation, about working form, but also about the past and about the future. I think I speak for both myself and the rest of my party colleagues when I say that it has been as exciting and challenging a year as we could have imagined in advance. Most of us came directly from the street and into the Folketing without the shadow of political experience, which is why we have had a very steep learning curve. In this respect, I would like to thank all those who have helped with everything, from finding their way around the Castle to the work of the committees and here in the Chamber. It seems almost forever since now, but the truth is that a great deal has happened with the alternative, yes, with Denmark, since we launched the parliamentary season in October. If I am going to try to sum up how the Alternative has experienced the year, then I would say that at one and the same time it has been a year that has both filled us with great, great concern, but also with hope for the future. Our concern is that the direction the government, together with its support parties, has set for Denmark, is heading us in a completely different direction from that which we want in the alternative. We want to steer Denmark in a direction of serious, sustainable conversion, so that Denmark will not only be the best country in the world, but the best country for the world. It may just sound like big words, but we have never concealed the fact that we may be a small party, but we have great, great ambitions. We have ambitions to create a greener, more entrepreneurial and more equal society, a society where we move away from the narrow box thinking of the competitive state to human and environmental thinking and where we work seriously both with an economic, a social and an environmental bottom line, but where we are aware that the environmental and social bottom line is the goal, while the economic will always be only the means to reach the others. That is the society we dream of, and that is what we work for every day within and outside Christiansborg's walls. Unfortunately, the last year suggests that the government has chosen a completely different direction for Denmark. This is a direction in which re-priority contributions are introduced which downgrades the close well-being of implementing a ceiling on cash aid, which increases inequality and makes vulnerable children and families poorer, but it is also a direction in which we do not take enough responsibility for the two major challenges: the climate crisis and the global refugee challenge. If we start with the climate crisis, science is ready: temperature increases must be so if the climate crisis is not to become a permanent climate disaster. That is why the Paris Agreement marked for us a turning point which says that the fossil industry is on the wrong side of history, but the agreement is also a gun to the temple because it quite clearly says that it is now that we must act if we are to save the climate. Regardless of how you turn it around, as a society, we need to recognise that growth has its limitations, because we cannot continue to use resources without limits when we live on a planet with limited resources. We have to acknowledge this, including in the policy pursued. We already see and feel the consequences of letting go. January was the warmest month ever measured. February was the warmest month ever measured. So was March, and so was April. And yet it does not seem that the scale of the crisis has come to the fore. For example: The keys to the Prime Minister's Office were barely in the hands of the Prime Minister before the government defied a majority in the Folketing and raised doubts about Denmark's reduction targets. Then a regular bomb was dropped into the electric car market when the tax exemption was abolished, just as the farmers were suddenly allowed to spray and fertilize more. The last thing we have heard is that the black record list now needs to be extended again, because the government is proposing to drop the PRS tax. We do not think that makes sense in any way when we know that these initiatives are working against the green transition at a time when there has never been a greater need for us to speed up that transformation. Denmark's handling of the global refugee challenge is another example that worries the alternative. The challenge of refugees is too great for any country to take up the task alone. I'm pretty sure we all agree on that in here. That is why we are surprised that Denmark was one of the first countries to reject the Commission's proposal for a pan-European distribution key, because if we all agree that common solutions are needed, why on earth do we reject it when it lies ahead of us? After all, we do not solve the refugee challenge by tightening legislation at home. It merely passes the problem on to our neighbouring countries, and we do not think that is a solidarity or a sustainable solution. Speaking of refugees, I would like to make a brief comment on the work process we had in the Folketing when we had to deal urgently with the government's asylum package. It may be because we are brand new in the game in here, but we just don't think it's okay that we Members get a wretched day to understand a law of more than 100 pages. That is why we would like to call on the government to ensure a better process when we make such a great piece of legislation in the future. As I started by saying, the year that has passed not only fills the alternative with concern, but also with hope. This is due not least to the fact that some small progressive enclaves have begun to emerge around Denmark, experimenting with new ideas, new communities and new solutions to the challenges and crises we face now and in the long term. One of the very best examples is on Samsø, where the island's inhabitants have joined forces to create a sustainable local environment, so that today you are both self-sufficient in renewable energy and move towards future-proof agriculture based on ecology. In Lysbro there is a local savings bank offering green loans, eco-loans and humanitarian training loans. Such communities would like to have many more of them in the future. It gives a hope of a sustainable society that local responsibility for the green transition begins when the political will can be difficult to see. Hopefully, we will also be in the alternative when we see how civil society moves in the area of refugees and integration. Organisations and individual volunteers have played and continue to play an invaluable role in integration. We see how companies, welcome families and friendly people take a huge responsibility for local integration, and we see how new efforts and collaborations arise between municipalities and private and local associations and organisations. These bets are worth gold, both literally and figuratively. The faster refugees become part of society, the better. And we all know that it is first and foremost in the meeting between people that the best integration takes place. That is why the alternative would like to praise the Prime Minister for inviting civil society to a talk about how we integrate, but at the same time we would like to appeal for civil society to have an even more prominent role when we try to achieve the world's best integration in the future. Now it was really my plan to stop, but before I finish altogether, I would like to say a little about how we have tried internally in the Alternative to create a new and more inclusive political culture. We have, for example. Trying to create new spaces for policy development and dialogue. Many have probably heard about our political laboratory, but we have also tried what we call the alternative parliament, where we ask citizens, professionals and politicians to develop new answers to current challenges, in sync with the fact that this is happening in this Chamber. We have also explored the potential of combining art, politics and activism, partly by having a house artist living there, partly by exhibiting politically motivated art like what you see down at the Palace Square. At the same time, we are constantly trying to be inspired by the outside world and our colleagues, all of you in here. In fact, we have become so many times. Most recently, this has been done by a proposal from the Liberal Alliance and Radicals to introduce a social card for people on transfer income. In fact, we have no doubt that there is plenty of innovation and inventiveness in here if we are willing to lower our guard and allow each other to be inspired by those who are sitting opposite us. In any case, we are ready to be inspired by you both by you in this Chamber and, of course, by you who are behind the screen. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601152705	Thank you very much. We have a number of brief comments to make. That's a maximum of 45 minutes. The first one is from Mrs. Trine Bramssen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601152712	First of all, I would like to congratulate the alternative of the first year of Danish politics, and then I would like to ask a specific political question. For part of sitting in the Danish Parliament and being a party in the Danish Parliament is that you enter into agreements. One of the agreements reached by the Alternative is support for the Blue Agreement on a so-called historic statement on the Iraq and Afghanistan war and a number of other wars. Does the alternative itself believe that the historical statement creates openness about the Iraq and Afghanistan wars?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601152751	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601152752	Thank you for the question. As Mrs Trine Bramsen knows quite well just by looking at the press release that came with this agreement, we do not think that this is the perfect picture we are getting out of it. We will continue to work for a commission which looks precisely at the international and legal aspects of these wars. However, we think that with this agreement we will have a much better deal than what was planned in relation to the Liberal Alliance's proposal to present unclassified papers. When we discussed it at first reading, I stood for our rapporteur, and I have to say that I do not remember any rapporteurs who cheered. I thought we were all a little reluctant and said that yes, when we can't get any more. In fact, I think that with the agreement we have made with the government and the Liberal Alliance and other parties, we have received more than just the unclassified papers. Because we will have an historic statement and, at the same time, we will continue to fight. We will continue to fight for the establishment of a commission to look at the international and legal aspects of these wars. We have said this quite clearly from the outset when we discussed it with the Minister for Justice, and we have also made that clear in this Chamber. We keep fighting for that, because we think that's the right thing to do. But we should not, therefore, say no to some steps before we get there.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601152904	Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601152905	The reason why I am asking is that the statement does not deal with the legal or international issues, including responsibility. There won't be interrogations. This also means that we will not find out in that study whether Iraqi prisoners, for example, were exchanged. So I would like to ask the rapporteur what is the practical result of the alternative being included in the Blue Agreement. What is with today, which would not have been included in that agreement if the blue parties had written their history book alone?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601152939	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601152940	There's the whole composition of the team that has to sit and look at it. We have helped to influence it in a different direction, so that there are also others who are not just historians. And then it's just important for me to say that this investigation isn't investigating these things. I also mentioned this in my first reply to the questioner. That is why, when we get a second majority in here, we still have to place that responsibility. But that is just not what we can do, with the majority that is in here now, and that is why we think it is better to have a little. And then we can take more and more.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601153013	Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601153014	Thank you for that, President. And thank you for the speech by the rapporteur. There are a lot of exciting things in the fall during such a graduation debate. The reason for my question is the statements that have been made in some places that the alternative will not, of course, support a social democratic leader as a prime minister candidate at all costs. Sir. Uffe Elbæk has said that it challenges the common thinking about how to build up government affairs and things like that. It's very exciting. But if you don't do it per. Mr President, my question is as follows: what are the political requirements that must be met if we are to do so anyway? Because it's politics, it's politics, it's not everything else. The interesting thing for us and all Danes to know is: what are the political demands that the alternative will make in order to point to Mrs Mette Frederiksen as Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601153113	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601153115	What is very crucial for us to say is that we think it is actually a little strange that we have to spend 11 months in a parliamentary term discussing the outcome of the next elections, which we do not even know when to come. What is important for us to say in relation to a possible second majority, where we can play a decisive role in getting a different policy, is that of course we must be able to see ourselves in the political project. But we said at the last election that we do not make demands, with a list that we have to tick. No, we have a political direction that is very clear, I think, for everyone, and that is what we are working for. If we can't even see ourselves in x, y, z party that might want to make a government, in our cooperation block, then it's clear that we're not part of it. However, in relation to this automaticity that we should go out today and put our political mandate in the hands of the Socialists, I would say that I really think it is strange that we should discuss it at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601153213	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601153214	Yeah, you could say that. But there are many things to discuss in politics where one has to ask oneself: why do we have to discuss this right now? But it is clear that when we read on the front page of the Jyllands-Posten today that red parties are in internal dispute over the power of government after the next election and when Mr. Uffe Elbæk, as the leader of the alternative, is not uninteresting, I think that the Danes will also be aware of what political demands have been made and especially because it has been wrapped in very clear statements that all restrictions on foreigners should be rolled back, that is to say that all restrictions on foreigners should be rolled back since the summer. That is the political starting point. This is interesting in terms of wanting to support a candidate from a party that has been involved in most of the restrictions that have been made since this summer, and that is why I think it is interesting in a purely political discussion to hear the rapporteur's proposals on these matters.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601153309	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601153310	Well, as I said very clearly earlier this morning when I put a question to the leader of the Social Democratic Party, it is quite obvious to everyone that there is a deep-seated political disagreement about which we are deeply divided. And in relation to the fact that we are to start working together at a time after an election in perhaps three years and one month we also know how much is happening in politics in three years and one month, because three years and one month ago the Alternative did not exist I would say that much can happen. I am sure that if we want to do a joint political project, we will sit down and do so. But we just said this isn't automatic. In other words, there are other than two parties in the Danish Parliament who can also be in the front of two parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601153349	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601153350	Thank you. And thank you very much, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist on behalf of the rapporteur. A question was asked along the way, for which I cannot help answering the question. And it is this recognition that we cannot solve the world's refugee problems alone, and a surprise on the part of the rapporteur that there was no Danish support for the European solution as it was expressed. It was precisely because it was not a solution; it was because it was a way to move the problem around. Distributing refugees does not solve the refugee problem. That's why. But let me return to Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl's question, because if you roll back all these restrictions in the field of foreigners, what consequences does the rapporteur think it will have on the number of asylum seekers in Denmark? So, we will probably soon agree that it will increase, but how much does the rapporteur really think it will increase if all these tightenings are rolled back?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601153448	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601153449	What is my whole point in the speech I have made is that we cannot do anything about this at national level. This is an international issue on which we must take an international position. The Commission's solution was not just a redistribution; a number of things were involved in this solution, which was very sensible, and we would very much like Denmark to devote its energy to supporting it. And I don't think that would actually mean that more refugees would come to Denmark. I believe that this would mean that we would have much closer cooperation in Europe and that there would be a joint and united responsibility for this problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601153520	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601153521	Yeah, but now that's not what I said either. I did not say that this was what would give more refugees to Denmark; I said that it was the roll-back of all restrictions on immigration policy that the alternative proposes that we should do, which will lead to more refugees in Denmark. So let me ask you a few questions. If you roll back all these restrictions, it is reasonable to assume that there will be significantly more refugees in Denmark. How are we gonna finance this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601153555	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601153557	I have to take a step back again, because it's as if Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen believes that we will simply abolish all legislation and then we will go out this door and lock it at us. That is not what we want. In fact, we want to make a number of initiatives, European initiatives that go in and address this jointly and jointly, because that is what we have to do. So we do not believe, no, that there will be more refugees for that reason, precisely because it is a common European initiative that needs to be taken to deal with the refugees who are coming to Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601153624	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601153626	Thank you and thank you for your speech. I am impressed by the alternative's approach to politics and the interest that is always to hear what the opponent thinks. I also had the pleasure of discussing with Mr. Uffe Elbæk at Frederiksberg Library on Monday. That was a very good debate. There is a lot of talk about the three bottom lines, and I am experiencing the same thing here as on Monday. I am such a Conservative who also cares about the economic bottom line. It is almost easier to nail pudding on a wall than to get such a concrete economic presentation from the Alternative on how our society should be financially linked if the alternative gets its way. I live in Produktionsdanmark. If it is to be abolished over one night, should people go from house to home, should Denmark be run bankrupt? I am very concerned about the economic policy pursued by the alternative. I find it very difficult to see the concrete in it. And, frankly, I would like to ask questions about this, because many people live in Production Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601153735	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601153736	As far as I know, the questioner lives just near one of the new production jobs, which actually takes it very seriously to work on green conversion and work on green energy. What we are proposing quite specifically in relation to the economy is firstly that we should look at how our tax system is linked. We were happy this morning when we read the financial wise men's report on, for example, housing tax. I know so we don't quite agree on that. And then it is clear that the question of the economy is also a very big question, and then you throw it out, and then we have to be able to respond broadly to it. We want a different tax system from what we have today, we want a more resource-based tax system, we want tax to be reduced to work. And then it is something that our fucking financial rapporteur is also working on now, trying to put all the blocks together in an economic policy for the alternative, and it is being presented.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601153829	Søren Pape Poulsen
ParlaMint-DK_20160601153830	I recognise that it may not be quite fair to say: give me an economic model of society, complete and complete. I just cannot help thinking that if the alternative party programme were to be carried out fully with 90 mandates, would it not give many people a great challenge to their livelihood, or how long would it have to take before it has been put into practice? After all, what matters to every human being is also having a job to stand up to every day. And there are enough jobs in Production Denmark, but that is not the focus of the Alternative, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601153909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601153911	Now I want to start by saying that I always say: Oh, no, I hope no party ever gets 90 seats, because I do not think that is very healthy for democracy. It is clear that our party programme will bring about major changes in the way we live, we live, we consume. So it's big, big changes, and it's not something you do over a night. This is precisely something that needs to be introduced calmly. Because if we are to bring about such a major change as a serious sustainable transformation will bring, then we must also be able to get used to it, but we have to get started today. The climate bell has
ParlaMint-DK_20160601153949	Then it's mr. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601153952	It is natural in relation to a party that is as new as the Alternative, not only to look forward, but also to look at the results achieved, and the result that I would like to ask you about is the housing job scheme, which is not so much because our parties disagree deeply about the biased housing job scheme, but about the financing of it. Could the rapporteur explain what the financing of this is like, because it is financed by a financial law where there are savings on research, on education, on development aid and much more. So to what extent do you feel that you have shared in contributing in this regard?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601154039	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601154041	The short answer would be: not at all. I am not here to take responsibility for the Finance Act that the Minister of Finance has made, and the questioner does not make me do that at any time. We were not involved in the negotiations, we were not involved in the signing, so I do not want to take responsibility for the work that has been done. We could easily find funding for this scheme in the financial bill that we made ourselves with, and I would like to take responsibility for that, but I do not take responsibility for the Left Government's Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601154108	Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601154110	Hopefully, we agree on a prerequisite for the implementation of the housing job scheme is that the government implemented a financial law and in the Finance Act there were among others. savings on development aid, on research, on education and on many other elements.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601154127	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601154129	We fully agree that when there is an expense, there must also be an income, but I will not take responsibility for a budget law that I did not share in negotiating, which I have not signed up to, which I have not been able to vote through. We could easily find funding for this scheme, and we even offered to help find funding, but that was not accepted by the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601154154	Then it's mr. Anders Samuelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601154159	The alternative would like to have a dispute with the thinking that growth is good in itself, so I would like to hear whether the alternative rapporteur can point to one country in the world where it is possible without growth to promote women's equality, to provide education for virtually everyone, to promote health systems, to eliminate poverty, to combat hunger. Is there a country, is there somewhere in the world where this will be possible without growth?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601154236	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601154237	No, but what we say quite clearly is that we are a very rich country in a very, very rich part of the world. We have had extreme economic growth for very, very many years, but we are living on a planet we are looking at right now at a global inequality that is completely extreme. Maybe we should start working a little bit to bring the whole planet along instead of thinking that it's here in little Denmark where we're doing really well. We could feel better, but we're doing really well. I do not believe that it is economic growth in Denmark that will create a better society in Denmark or for that matter in the rest of the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601154311	Sir. Anders Samuelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601154313	Thank you for confirming that so far, in this reality in which we live and on this planet on which we live, it has never been possible to promote women's equality, to provide a proper health system, education system, etc. without having growth. But that is the path that the Alternative is experimenting with to go out. Good luck with that. The leader of the alternative, Uffe Elbæk, said in the national meeting hall that he really wanted a showdown against neoliberal thinking. I have then had a dialogue with Uffe Elbæk on Twitter and also directly in person, and he has said that it was not the Liberal Alliance he was thinking about stood for neoliberal thinking. So I would like to know whether the rapporteur will point out which other party is responsible for neoliberal thinking in this country. Where is it in this country that has perhaps the highest tax burden in the world that you can see that there is neoliberal thinking? Where is it that you can see that you put the market before man? I do not see where that is, but can the rapporteur point to it in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601154410	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601154413	I can look at this quite specifically here in Europe within the European Union. There you have this neoliberal box thinking, and that's what we want a fight with. We want a showdown that every time we talk about health, every time we talk about education, we say it is expenditure, and when we build a motorway, it is an investment. We'd like to have a fight with that. This is the thinking that has been laid down over Europe, which we do not think is healthy, with which we see leading economists today also making a showdown. If you open the Politiken or it was Information, I don't remember, but it was at least an exciting article, you can see it. That's what we want a fight with. We want a fight with the totally blind box thinking and cut that we have seen in Europe and that has not led the good life with them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601154456	Then it's Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601154459	I would like to start by thanking you for a very fine speech and thank you for the very good cooperation we have had here between the Alternative and Enhedslisten over the last year. I really appreciate that very much. It's really nice. But I must also say, and we have also discussed this, that I am surprised that the Alternative has chosen to make this agreement with the government and the Liberal Alliance on a historical account of Denmark's participation in the war. For our parties, we fully agree that there is a need to restore the Iraq Commission, especially because it is precisely because we need to investigate these cases, which concern the extradition of prisoners, even if there was a risk that they would be tortured or have the death penalty. I would just like to say that until a few weeks ago, we actually had a majority in this Chamber to bring out the documents of the Iraq Commission, and we fully agree that it is not as good as a real commission, but so there were also a great many experts from Amnesty International and journalists who pointed out that there was plenty to come after because there was a lot that was not classified.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601154614	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601154617	First of all, thank you for your cooperation. I have to say that it is wrong for us to have a majority in favour of all documents being presented. It was all unclassified documents that had to be presented. So it's not true in my world either that journalists thought this was the most amazing thing. I did until several interviews the same morning we first dealt with the case with journalists who said: Do you know how little you get from looking at non-classified papers? We think we're getting more out of this. Now we know that Enhedslisten is resubmitting this proposal and nicely and well with it, but it is also important for me to say time and again that we are completely in agreement, as the questioner also says, and that is what we are fighting for. We have even got it written into the agreement that this is not a substitute for the press release, we are even saying that we will continue to work for the fact that we have a legal responsibility, that we have looked at the elements of international law in it, and also in relation to prisoners, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601154715	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601154716	In other words, the problem with this study that has been carried out is that it does not deal at all with the most central issues which are precisely about prisoners and whether there has been a lie to Parliament on the issue of torture and the death penalty. I think that is so great a deficiency that you cannot do that study, and what worries me is that it will block the further process. I would like to hear: has the alternative been given any guarantees that the request for access to documents and the question of this subject will not just be swept away by the fact that there is a statement going on? And what will happen to the Commission's own documents now? I think we need an answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601154755	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601154756	Surely I hope that access as such will not suddenly end because of this. So what is important to me is that we have a majority in this Parliament right now who does not want this committee of inquiry. That is the reality. Then we can say that we want to see unclassified papers and then no more, and then we can stand and shout again: we want an investigation into this! We want a legal responsibility! But that's not gonna happen. We think this is one step, and then we're gonna fight on for the other. We can continue to fight for the second, which will actually place the responsibility that we both want to place.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601154833	Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601154835	Also a great congratulations from here on the first big graduation debate. After all, there are two very specific areas in which the alternative has been able to put its finger on it in the past year, namely the two conciliations in which the alternative forms part: the housing employment scheme and the prevention of the publication of Iraq documents. And in relation to both, the alternative has then delivered, it can be said, the decisive votes to the government, which could not have implemented a housing job scheme or made this agreement without the alternative being included. That is why I would like to ask: how long must the housing job scheme, which has no green effect, which favours the richest families in Denmark and which everyone recognizes today is basically money out of the window, continue? How many years does the alternative think it should go on? Then I would like to ask about the documents. I understand that it is the authorities who decide which documents these historians may quote from and publish. Has the alternative ensured that the rest of the public can access these documents via access to documents? Or has there been an agreement here on secrecy with the government, so that it is only these historians who cannot then quote from the documents that have access to them?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601154950	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601154951	First of all, I have to say that this housing job scheme is clearly in place for many years and drove on in 2015 as the old housing allowance, which the questioner himself helped to introduce, and then it is made for a green scheme. We think it is sensible to make a scheme that pushes for us to start making climate adjustments and energy renovations of houses. This is one of the ways we push for it. We think this is sensible, and we do so both for poorer citizens without so much money and for richer citizens. We're gonna push for this switch. I also know that the questioner himself had a similar proposal some years ago, where it was quite reasonable. We've been in this agreement about this historical statement because we think we're getting more out of this than we are just putting out unclassified papers. At the same time, we have ensured that we can continue to work. It is not such an agreement behind closed doors where we must never say anything where we must not fight for new steps in relation to where we would like. That's why we're working on it. I can't give you 100% details of what we've secured. I would very much like to find out and send it to the questioner, but I cannot stand here and say which list of papers one or the other can get; I do not have so many notes up here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601155111	Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601155113	That's fair enough. But perhaps we can just hear whether the alternative has ensured that there is quite general access to those documents or whether they have been shut down as part of the agreement. Then, of course, there are some who are classified and some who are not, and I understand the rapporteur is not in a position to explain that. However, the simple question of whether it has been ensured that access to documents can be implemented could perhaps be borne in mind if this agreement has been drawn up, which is that the public should not have access to documents. Then I would just like to say in all tranquillity about the housing job scheme that, if anyone, I support any movement in the green direction. The problem is that it has been shown that there is nothing but a few kilos of CO2 so we could probably have much more climate effect by spending that money in a different way. I hope the alternative will consider that for the next Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601155201	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601155203	We would very much like to contribute to many more initiatives for the climate and for the environment, and I think the questioner knows that too. This was one way we could push a deal that was black. It turned green, and we actually want to work in here that way. In relation to these papers and if everything gets shut down, I have to say again: I am not standing with the text of the agreement in front of me. And no, what I remember from it isn't that everything is shut away in a box and that no one has to see it. But I still have to stress that the proposal we discussed in the Parliamentary Chamber, which I also remember was a question of just taking it when we cannot get anything else, concerned unclassified papers to be presented, that is. very, very little knowledge of something that is really serious and that I think we should continue to work on getting a Commission study on.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601155250	Then it's mr. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601155251	Thank you, and thank you for a good debate and good cooperation this year. I think it's been exciting to hear many of your visions. One of the things I have been waiting for and for which SF and I personally are very passionate about is primary school policy. After all, all new parties must be allowed to make a new policy, and the policy of the Alternative School came here 1-2 months ago, and I read it with excitement. However, I do not entirely agree with many of the bids made by the alternative. Of course, there is also something we agree with. One of the basic ideas of the Alternative's primary school plan is that in future all Danish primary schools should be placed under the Ministry of Education. It is simply necessary to drop the fact that they are in the municipalities, put them under the Ministry of Education and make them self-serving institutions. At least that's how I've read the primary school plan. It is compared to the high schools, which have also become self-serving. One of the things we feared with the self-serving institutions back then was this with everyone's fight against everyone. And I would like to know whether the rapporteur does not fear that it would increase the competitive mentality that we are fighting together to prevent if all primary schools were placed under the authority of the Ministry of Education and made them self-serving institutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601155404	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601155405	I know we do not say in our education policy that everything must be placed under the Ministry of Education. But what we very much want to fight for and which we have put forward in our primary school presentations is, of course, complete autonomy for the individual school. So you have to look at how we get away from sitting in here and making measurements of what to do when and how many hours of one thing and the other, what to read when, what not to read, and what to do on Mondays, Tuesdays and Wednesdays. What is important for us to say is that we have to get the management to the individual school and that it has to work with their teachers and educators to offer the perfect teaching for the student composition, which is a given place.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601155454	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601155455	Okay, but it just says in the primary school plan that you want to take primary school from the municipalities, and you compare it to the high schools. But we can always talk about that. It is more because they say they want to take the influence of the municipalities to create such a common school system. But one of the things I think is really great about Denmark is that as a municipal politician in the municipalities, you have an influence. Soon the alternative is also a party out in the city councils more than today, so the alternative will deprive the municipalities of joint school visions, that is, where they say: We have a plan for our entire school system. And will you just let the schools themselves plan completely how they plan their courses?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601155531	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601155532	In fact, I think it would be extremely interesting if we said: how will schools go together to create joint school visions in a given area in Denmark? And that is the self-determination we are talking about. It seems so important to us to start taking seriously in here, so you don't just think that it should go out into the municipalities, and then we can go and manage teaching plans at the same time, but that we actually give each school free and say: You know your student composition and know what challenges you have. And we are actually confident that super-trained school teachers will be able to carry out that training. We are not going to be in charge of detail, but of course schools can come together in communities of values and find ways of developing the best policy. That's where we want to go with primary school.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601155612	Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601155613	The alternative rapporteur, Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, in his speech, referred to the fact that we are not meeting the challenge in the area of refugees by tightening legislation. It must be dealt with internationally. That is basically what was said. And that also sounds promisingly good. The only question is, can it be done? In fact, the lesson of the migrant crisis we have been through, and in this way it is still gone, is that it has not been possible to resolve it internationally and that, in fact, it was only a little better when the countries started to introduce border controls. This leads me to an issue which is, of course, very important and very dominant in the political debate right now in the field of foreigners. And that is: which way will the alternative choose after a parliamentary election? Will the alternative choose to seek direct influence on what a future government wants in the field of foreigners, where it is said to the government that is coming: we will implement a policy that is called to roll back all restrictions on foreigners? Or will the alternative stand out on the sidelines and say that the government that is now sitting must mess with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601155732	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601155733	First of all, I have to say that no international agreements were drawn up. After all, there were no agreements on the table that could actually go in and resolve the refugee challenge facing Europe. And then the countries began to close their borders. So, no, we have not seen that international solutions were not succeeding. They did not want to create international solutions, for example. because Denmark did not push for it. In relation to what kind of policy we want to pursue, I would say that we are, of course, fighting to get our policy through. That's what we want to work for every day. That is why we have been elected here and spend so many hours on it all over the country, and that is what our Members are doing. But I'm not standing here making the ultimate demand that it be like this or like this. That is not the way we work at all, and I know that is not the way the author's party works either. We are seriously working to get our political agenda through. And we think that we should roll these austerity back, and we will work for that politically.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601155832	Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601155833	During such a closing debate it is very interesting to learn a little more about what the parties want and what they do. And when we heard this weekend about what the Alternative is proposing, namely that all the relaxations should be rolled back, perhaps we thought it was such a little bit crazy. Having said that, the situation is that there are two lines in the Folketing. There are those who want restrictions on foreigners, and just over 30 of them have been carried out under the current government, and then there are those who want relaxations and some 45 concessions were made under the previous government. What will the alternative do after a parliamentary election? In which direction does the alternative work? Do you want to make demands, or don't you care?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601155916	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601155917	Sorry, I did not laugh at the question put by the questioner, but because the questioner came to say relaxation instead of tightening. That's why I'm getting a little caught up here. We will work politically for the refugee policy, which we think is the right one. And it is first of all that we need to find European solutions to this issue, because we cannot stand here and discuss it and believe that we can solve it. The alternative would like to look at how to create the world's best integration instead of concentrating on whether it is called 5,000 here or 1,000. Because that's what you have to look at. You don't stop the flow of refugees that is, by thinking that we can do tighter things here at home compared to neither jewelry nor posters, or what has now been done here at home. And that's why we'd like to roll back these symbolic tightenings, yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601155959	The next question is Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601160001	Thank you. The alternative is still a little out of the new one in class. I can also tell from many of the other questioners that they are asking questions to find out what the policy of the alternative is. I would like to ask you something to find out what the policy of the alternative is. I understand that the alternative, as the only party here in the Folketing, is in fact against increasing the penalty for rape. Could the rapporteur of the alternative try to explain in more detail what is the reason for this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601160035	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601160036	Very, very much. Firstly, you do not use the penalty framework that you have as it is today. Secondly, we don't believe that punishment solves this challenge. We don't believe that it's only prison time that can solve these challenges. So let us take advantage of the fact that there is a penalty framework. It can be used. And then we would like to look at other initiatives instead. But we do not believe that it is punishment that resocialises the best possible way.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601160104	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601160105	I guess I expected that answer. However, I would like the rapporteur of the Alternative to go deeper into alternative solutions rather than punishment. I also understand that such a thing as sexual abuse of children is not something the alternative would increase the penalty for. I'm having a little trouble understanding that. Could the alternative rapporteur try to explain a little more how to punish criminals?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601160140	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601160142	I'm glad to be allowed to unfold this. The thing is, we don't want to punish. We're just saying that you have to use something else. We don't want this to happen. How do we get to where it doesn't happen? Are we doing this by extending the penalty by one year? No, we don't. We do this by grabbing the people who are doing these attacks and working seriously with them so they don't do these attacks anymore. So we also do so with all the preventive work under the auspices of youth education, schools and so on. Here we can talk a lot more about sexuality and all these things, so that we do not find ourselves in a situation where people commit abuse. But it is not the extension of the penalty by one year or six months that makes this stop. This is also evident when we do not even use the penalty framework.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601160233	Then it's mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601160236	Thank you so much. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist says that you will not make ultimate demands on a future government. In this way, the alternative has otherwise entered an ordinary christian castle rhetoric. That's what most parties say in here. In the past week, the leader of the alternative has, sir. Uffe Elbæk, after all, was in a bit of a media storm due to an interview with Mr. Clement Kjærsgaard. What was left of that interview was that the alternative wanted a different asylum policy. You don't have much to figure out if it's 10,000 or 50,000 extras. But what certainly burned through that must be given to Mr. Uffe Elbæk was asking for a different asylum policy. Even if we do not want to make ultimate demands, it is the case that every support party should be paid in some areas. That's the way it is. That is the price you take to support a government. I would just like to ask for an answer to the question as to whether this is one of the areas where payments are to be made.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601160349	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601160350	It's actually funny that it's exactly Mr. Kim. Joachim B. Olsen, who asks that question when I come up after the rapporteur from his own party was up here. The question is a little the same: when do you want to overthrow a government because you do not get X, Y or Z in the tax negotiations? What we are saying is that we do not want to talk about the number of refugees, because it does not make sense to talk about the number of refugees in Denmark. So this is an international issue. We do not stop the war in Syria by saying that we only want 1,000 refugees to Denmark. It doesn't stop anything. So we say we want to pursue a different policy. We fight for that politically. We are seeking political influence in this area. But I do not know the outcome of the elections, which may not be for three years and one month.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601160435	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601160437	Hopefully it will take a long time for us to have an election, and once we have an election, I am personally quite convinced that the Blue Block will win that election. But this is about what citizens can expect from the alternative, what they want to work on, and it must be possible to demand, in any case, whether it is the case that the alternative can support any government which does not make any concessions on this issue on the question of asylum. The alternative wants to relax, and can the alternative support a government that does not want to relax? Surely you can get an answer to that. After all, this is a specific policy that matters to ordinary citizens in this country and to Danish society as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601160529	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601160531	My ambitions aren't so great that I'm going to convince sir. Joachim B. Olsen to vote for the alternative. The questioner asks: What will the alternative be working on? Well, we will work for the policy we stand up for, which is international solutions to the refugee challenge we face. That is what we want to work for, that is what we want to work for every day. I cannot stand here and say what a government debate looks like. It would then be completely pathetic for me to stand and say that our negotiating position after an election would be like this, like this or like this, when we do not know whether we have 10 mandates, 9 mandates or 25 mandates. That would be completely in the air. Then I'd have to make 340 pages where we'd have all the calculations, and that doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601160619	The next question is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601160624	Thank you. I would like to start off positively by thanking the Alternative's rapporteur, at least in my areas, for good cooperation. I actually respect the fact that when we publish a new large natural package of 360 million, for example. kr., then goes out and praises what you find positive, namely more untouched forest etc., rather than going out with the negative attitude. Of course, I am aware that there were differences and they also emerged, but respect for the positive approach in politics. However, that is not everything we agree on, it is absolutely no secret. I will continue with what Mrs Anni Matthiesen also asked, namely in relation to this proposal to tighten up the penalties for rape for children under the age of 15. At first reading, the Alternative rapporteur, Mrs Josephine Fock, said that the punishment of freedom is destructive. I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur will try to clarify what is meant by the destructive nature of the punishment of freedom. Is it consistent to reduce penalties in all areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601160725	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601160728	What we want to question very much, what we want to work for in relation to this concept of punishment, is how we achieve that there is no sexual abuse, for example. That is what we all want to achieve. We just have to say that it is not the extra year you put on a penalty that helps. We believe that detention in this context is destructive because it keeps people in crime. A lot of investigations are pointing to the fact that jail time doesn't get you out of crime. That is why we say: how can we use all the other tools we actually have, education, social, cultural and so on?? Once again, I have to stress that we are not, of course, using approximately the penalty framework that we actually have at our disposal today, so it is also a bit of a hoof talk that we are now going to have to add one more year, while, incidentally, we are spending only a quarter of what we have at our disposal in this framework of penalties. So we don't think it's freedom punishment that makes people not commit these crimes again.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601160834	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601160836	I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether there is also a concern for the sense of justice, if there is no consideration for the child or young person who has been subjected to an attack, that is to say that he should not be able to meet the person who has done this so terrible, so terrible to you, on the street. Because if you bring this to the end, that is to say punishment is destructive, you could, in theory, meet the person who has subjected you to something so terrible on the street the next day. I don't suppose that's where the alternative is going either, or how?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601160906	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601160907	No, not at all, and there are plenty of ways you can work with this. This applies both to the sense of justice of the victim and also to the rehabilitation of those who have committed an attack. And there we just have to say that it is not enlargement by one year on a penalty that we do not exploit that does something about it. But we would do something about it if we were to tackle the social parts of it if we were to tackle the education part of it and so on. It's not this penalty that changes this; then we can feel like we've done a lot, but I just don't believe it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601160937	So when we get one last question in this round, and that's Mr. Knox. Jakob Engel-Schmidt, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601160944	Thank you for the floor. If it turns out that my religious beliefs are wrong and that I am reincarnated in this world, then I will join the Alternative in my next life. Because I'm sure they're having a party. Politically, I can be a little bit of doubt about where the project lands in this way, and I am sure that is the intention. I remember when sir... Uffe Elbæk started the project, talked about a new way of thinking and conducting politics, but I think that in many cases the political airship is this way to the left from the left when it comes to voting in this Chamber. And then there are some cases where I am incredibly surprised by the alternative, which blows a little hot air in the balloon and flies into the middle of Danish politics and finds solutions to both the right and left of the middle. Great praise for that. That's why I'm gonna ask Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist: If we now open negotiations on hopefully lower taxes in the autumn, would the alternative want to join in? Would you like to help ease the tax burden on hard-working entrepreneurs, public employees and others who are affected by some of the world's highest income taxes?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601161047	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601161049	First of all, I hope that the airship will not land anywhere. In fact, I would prefer it to move freely around to stay in that metaphor. Well, we would very much like to be involved in all the negotiations. What has been a little awkward so far in relation to the government, when we have tried to be involved in negotiations, is that two things are always bound together that do not necessarily have anything to do with each other. Then they say: these negotiations must take place together, so you have to say yes to this, so that you can join in on this, for example, to talk about the law of plans in order to be able to share in talking about growth throughout Denmark. We think that's a shame, because we're not gonna go along with these kinds of deals. We'd love to talk about it. I am also looking forward to talking much more about entrepreneurship with the government, which I have already talked to the Minister about. There are a number of things where we still believe that we can do something with the government. But it is not every day that we are invited into government offices and are involved in some negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601161141	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601161143	I mean, when I ask, it's because we in the Left like to have some guides. I know, for example, that if we are to build an easy track, I should not call Rasmus Jarlov; if we are to arrange a demo, it is a good idea to call Enhedslisten; if we are to hold a Femøslejr, SF is probably able to deliver. Then it is also good to know where to turn politically to the alternative in order to get good help. Since the political map may turn out to be a bit diffuse, it is not quite unreasonable that this is what Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist a little more detailed question of how the party would like to be both helpful, willing to negotiate and even enthusiastic in terms of political cooperation with the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601161220	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601161222	We love negotiating, we love making solutions, and we love making solutions with everyone in here. I think that was also clear in my rapporteur's speech. So I really just think that the government and the Left should call when they have a problem, because then I or one of my colleagues will be happy to come and tell you how we look at a solution and maybe we can meet somewhere there.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601161241	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601161250	If politics is about gaining power and keeping on the cost what it will cost, then the government is probably a success. But for me, politics is about turning human hope into political will. Today my Johanne is 7 years old, and in good time I have prepared her for her to work on her birthday in addition to breakfast and dinner during dinner. I really wish I could tell her that what we are doing here in the Danish Parliament we are doing to create an even better society for her and her classmates and children like her all over the world. That is why I set out to make a list of all the decisions we have made in the past parliamentary year, which will make a really positive difference to the future of our children, and it will then come here: yes, that was it. Because when I think back to this parliamentary year, I can't really think of a single decision taken since the parliamentary elections, which will have a decisive, positive impact on the future of our children... not a single one. That is why it is not just a neglected spring, but in many ways a neglected parliamentary year. In fact, Danish politics probably reminds us most of all of a traffic jam: the cars keep quiet, yes, the chairman responds immediately, of course no one comes forward or back, engine noise, honking, increasing traffic rage, great fuss for nothing. And it is actually the case that the traffic experts tell us that it is often just a single car, whose driver just thought it could get over before it turned red, which ends up creating this traffic chaos, where everyone keeps quiet and nowhere can get. In Danish politics we know who is behind the wheel of that one car that stopped everything. He's got a tight grip on the wheel, white knuckles and the central lock on so that none of the passengers can get out, even if he's on the right, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, constantly scouting out the window, almost demonstrative with the back of the driver, and whispering: Won't, won't. Last night, we heard. In the back seat, Mr. Pape and Mr. The conversation about racing with threatening demands on the driver to drive both back and forth and right and left at the same time... or else they will have a new driver, it sounds. The man behind the steering wheel, the Prime Minister of Denmark and the President of the Left, he does not move forward. The passenger is not of any help, but, he thinks, if I just sit still and hold on, I'll still be behind the wheel a little bit longer. This has been the case in Danish politics in the past year. And I could use all my speaking time to tell you about all these ills and misery, but I really can't. That is why I have decided to use my remaining speaking time to look forward to the coming parliamentary year, to the results we could achieve together if we set out to do so. If we dared to represent the hope that, despite the challenges of climate crisis, refugee crisis, financial crisis, we would set out to start shaping a better future. If we do not do so, if we allow the fear of tomorrow to run the work for another year, then we simply confirm what too many people already think, namely that politics cannot do anything for their future. Radical Left is Denmark's Social Liberal Party, and that means to us that the freedom of the individual is the starting point, but that freedom comes with a responsibility: that you want to be something for someone other than yourself, that is, that you want to be something for someone as well. We should not be the same, but we should have the same opportunities, because all people are equal. All people have earned a life where they have something to stand up for in the morning, where nobody's contribution is too small, and where everyone feels that the day would not have been the same without them. What if, at the end of the debate in a year's time, we can say that it was the parliamentary year of the children and young people; a year in which we made decisions that enabled us to invest in their future, because for us as social liberals this is where it all starts, namely with the children. In such a parliamentary year, not all municipalities are asked to save on day-care institutions and schools simply to be able to reclassify and send the money to the elderly and hospitals by means of the Finance Act. Nor does it set off a firing round of 1 in 10 high school teachers in order to afford more cops at a time when crime is falling. In the years of the children's parliament, you invest in children's upbringing, in their education, in their creativity and in their desire to engage in each other and in our society. You will find it difficult if you cannot read and count well enough to manage a youth education after school, but it is the formation, creativity, the ability to enter into communities that can make dreams a reality. Imagine if the next parliamentary year really became a green year; a year in which we sought and found common ways of a long-needed process of change in a buzzing, innovative and profitable food sector in Denmark in pact with nature and in respect of future generations' right to clean drinking water and a decent aquatic environment; a year in which we did not step on the brake, but rather on the accelerator of our world-famous journey towards fossil-free energy supply, and where we would rather lighten the tax on future CO2 Think if we set out to make the planet's first thorough review of all laws and rules in order to support the transition to circular economy. Does that sound like future music? Yeah, that's actually what it is. These are the tones of new opportunities for more people to get jobs as a result of the green transition. As social liberals, we are often associated with reforms, and that is because we believe it is useful to change society so that more people have more opportunities. The ceiling on cash benefits implemented by the government and its supporting parties is not a reform. The ceiling on cash benefits offers the most vulnerable and vulnerable in our society significantly fewer opportunities. This will increase the number of poor people, and more will have trouble paying the rent. Instead of finding room for manoeuvre among those who already have the least and whose opportunities are the least, we Radicals have long been proposing that we ask the brave and healthy in employment to postpone their pensions slightly, because life expectancy is increasing much more than had previously been expected. Of course, those who are worn out in the labour market must see that they are dealt with. This applies, moreover, regardless of when they lose their ability to work, young or old, and whether or not the retirement age is raised five years earlier or later. On a previous occasion, the Prime Minister has called our proposal masochism. Let us hope that he has come to his senses, because a strong economy gives us the power to shape the future ourselves. Often, thinking about the future of present - day problems is disturbed. With the flow of refugees, thousands have come to Europe and part of them to Denmark. We have been told that we have to choose between humanism and welfare, but as a social liberal, I have no doubt. Of course, anyone who comes here can be a gain for society. All human beings are equal - that is at the heart of our human vision. The government also states, most recently in its so-called convergence programme, that the flow of refugees can eventually contribute to a more sustainable economy. I welcome solutions such as apprenticeship pay and the agreement to build more housing in the municipalities, things that did not excite us when we first laid them out, but which are now going to happen anyway. This reflects the fact that outside Christiansborg one is concerned about creating solutions that work, rather than tent camps for the sake of sight, jewelry laws, which are supposed to send the signal that Denmark is not as warm as people thought. We Social Liberals believe in Europe and European cooperation as part of the solution to the problems that no country can cope with on its own, the climate, the refugees and in terms of security and globalisation. The European Union gives us more influence in solving the challenges that we do not have the slightest chance of solving ourselves. This was the case when we joined the European Union more than 40 years ago, which is the case today. Where would I hope that my closing speech next year will not be a speech about an EU without Britain or a Europol without Denmark? Across parties, we have promised the Danes the security offered by police cooperation. It is not time to run away from your promises, it is time to act on them. We would also very much have liked to have been involved in discussions on how to take action against extremism and social control. We will strengthen freedom and make a determined effort so that those who are oppressed or led out into darkness will be on the right track. I note that such a liberal approach, which sees freedom as the best protection against fundamentalism, has been too much for the Danish Liberal Party, which, under slogans such as "We must follow with time" and "We must search the boundaries of the Constitution" now has an agreement that restricts freedom of expression. I think this is the wrong way to go. I believe that freedom of expression is one of the values that we must protect when we are under pressure from fundamentalists and extremists. Frankly, I feel insecure when the Left is looking after freedom of expression alone with the Danish People's Party and the Social Democrats. May I remind all three parties that the founders and politicians of freedom before us have often faced difficult situations where freedoms have been under pressure but chose to stand firm on them. Don't let a few TV shows change that relationship. Our society and belief in our own values must and must be stronger than that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601162259	Thank you, and we shall turn to the brief remarks, and there are many of them. We'll start with sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601162306	Thank you very much, sir. Morten Østergaard, and above all congratulations to Johanne. Secondly, I understand that all people are equal unless they mean something other than the Radical Left in this Chamber, because it seems that everything is bad and that everything is terrible and that we have achieved nothing at all. Once the Radicals were marked by a mantra that it was spring and Niels Helveg, and now it has become autumn with Østergaard. But it's just that we disagree. Sir. Morten Østergaard does not really need to be in doubt that everyone sitting in this room wants a better society for our children. That's why we're here. We just think something other than the Radical Left. But all people are equal, and we also have the right to be here. But to look forward, there was from Mr. Morten Østergaard's side a little hint that he was wearing a jahat in relation to the forward-looking • Would the Radical Left be interested in making reforms along with the current government, which can increase the supply of work?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601162404	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601162404-2	After all, I belong to a party which stems from the famous words that one must divide oneself according to one's opinion and which has a long tradition of making agreements with all parties and sitting in government with a large number of different parties, so Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen is quite wrong if he thinks that we do not recognise that people have different views from us. What we are concerned with is the results that we can create together, and I can hear that one is trying to convince oneself that one has done very well in the past parliamentary year. However, I do not meet so many outside Christiansborg, who are impressed by what we have done to address the major challenges of the past parliamentary year. I do not even know whether the Prime Minister himself is really impressed, because I understood what was said at the meeting last week at Marienborg, that we have the great challenges ahead of us, and you have to start with them first, and that is why I say it is a neglected parliamentary year. But you know in the Left where we have radicals, that we are ready to take responsibility if it is about the major challenges. It hasn't been done in this parliamentary year, but I cross my fingers for it to be done in the next parliamentary year.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601162510	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601162511	I could see just one big challenge that has been dealt with. We have just not been in agreement with the Radical Left there either. Yes, the rapporteur looks marvellous, but there has been a small flow of refugees to Denmark, and I think that has been a challenge, but let it be. But since the Radicals want to support the current government in relation to reforms, can one at the same time recommend a Prime Minister candidate from another party who believes that the reform trail is now over and that there is no need for reforms like those I outlined before?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601162546	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601162547	After all, what we need to do is to consider how best to make our mark on the policy pursued, and there we can compare the time during the government we were part of over the last four years, when we often received criticism that we were not ambitious enough with the reforms and the parliamentary year that has passed. In this context, we have to say that if what we are concerned with is reforms that provide us with an opportunity to invest in the common future and in our children I was also talking about this in the dialogue with the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, and that is where the government has chosen to cut back on yes, then something better went under the SR government. I just wanted to say to Mr. Knox. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen that if you are ready to reform, then we are ready. But if what you meet us with is that it's 1 in 10 high school teachers who have to be fired to afford more police officers, then it's probably gonna be again without us.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601162638	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601162642	It was quite a doomsday talk about how terrible this past year has been, that is, that we are sitting in a car and we are shouting and screaming. I shall not comment on the mood that remains on that bus if Mr. Morten Østergaard and that part of the opposition were to make the agreements. But what is really touching me is that the unbelievable luck of the previous government was that the parliamentary elections were held in June, so that the keys were no longer attached when the flow of refugees arrived. Because what would the Radical Left have done? What has been done this year, even though we have made some tough decisions, I recognise that has also been for the children, because we have taken it seriously that there are flows of refugees that this country cannot cope with, on top of a failed integration for many years. The rapporteur must take this seriously. What would the rapporteur have done with all the people on the motorways and those who have come here? Should not initiatives have been taken to limit influx?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601162749	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601162750	First of all, I would like to say to Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, that what I'm putting up with isn't that you have to scan yourself in a car with the central lock knocked down so no one can get out. What I am proposing is that we work together. That is, for example, the case. It's very strange that Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen claims to be concerned about nature and the environment, and then he insists on making an agreement on a three-party nature package, which does not have the same interest at all, despite the fact that there was a majority in the Danish Parliament that was ready to go much further. That's the way it is when you bring block policy in here at Christiansborg. Some may have hoped that Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, with his background in local politics, would be a breath of fresh air, but in record time we have become accustomed to the scourge of block policy, and I hope that this will not be allowed to happen in the future. Let us then work together broadly and find new patterns and undertake some real tasks. This also applies to international cooperation, where I really lack old and proud conservative traditions, such as believing that we have to solve cross-border problems together. There has been a proud European Union party in the Conservative People's Party. Today, I don't really think you know where you are. The only concrete solution that is on the table and that can make a real difference if we want controlled conditions instead of the coincidence we have seen in the last year is the one that has been presented by the Commission and supported by the countries that have received the most refugees. And even simple mathematics tells us that if you think that we have received too many refugees because we are above the average in the European Union, then it would be wiser to work with the other countries to share the task between us so that it became more affordable. That is why it is our solution, and Denmark would have played a completely different and active role in the attempt to do so if we had much power as we had heeded.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601162928	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601162929	I want to see that before I believe it. It is, of course, a pity if I have adopted the scourge of block policy or what is being said. I have to acknowledge that things in here are a little too predictable, and perhaps we can all try to do better. But I didn't get an answer to my question. Because I asked specifically and nothing about what we could have done in the distant future, but here and now. When people came on the highway, and when the influx was huge, huge, should one have said that we cannot take a position on that, because we need an international solution? I mean, we had a specific problem, and we have to deal with that as best we can. It was not a situation that any of us wanted to stand in. It was hard. It's still hard. But what did Mr. Morten Østergaard did?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601163021	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601163022	I would have done what the countries that have received the most refugees have also been advocating, namely to put pressure on us to find a joint arrangement in which we divided the task between ourselves. What has changed with regard to the influx of refugees into Europe is not a Danish border control. Anyone who gets stopped in that border control can just apply for asylum. It doesn't make any difference to any refugees. What has mattered is what has happened in Europe and down below, which means that there are not so many refugees coming up to Denmark. Therefore, it has been a once symbolic policy with jewelry laws that have damaged Denmark's reputation abroad; a removal of a legal requirement to come before a judge when you are locked up. So, parties that have traditionally stood firm on very concrete values have left them behind because they dared not take responsibility for a common European solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601163116	The next question is Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601163118	Thank you. Sir. Morten Østergaard has said that, for a new period of government, the Radical Left wants to break up with the set of restrictions on foreigners implemented by the Left Government with the support of the Social Democrats, and then we know what awaits us if we are unfortunate enough to have a red government after the next elections, namely many more asylum seekers. My question to Mr. Morten Østergaard is therefore: Mr. Morten Østergaard did not say that it is enough for us to have an extra bill of 6.4 billion from 2017 to 2020. kr. due to the large influx of asylum seekers in 2014? Is it not enough that the Rockwool Foundation has calculated that non-Western immigration to Denmark gives an extra move on Denmark's resources of 16 billion. kr. A year? And do we need more parallel societies in Denmark? Are the atrocities revealed by the television documentary that the mosques behind the veil have revealed, not sufficient? So the question is: can Denmark stick to the radical Left's foreign policy economically and culturally?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601163225	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601163226	I think the rapporteur can almost figure out that my answer will certainly be yes, that is to say that Denmark can do it. Anything else would be strange in some way. But perhaps I would just like to send a greeting to the Prime Minister, because there was previously some discussion about how many changes we made to the immigration legislation. I think the Prime Minister simply forgot to count the 14 with which the Left voted. I mean, it was 45 changes in alien law, but the Left voted in favour of the 14th. They voted in favour of the Imlov, they voted in favour of a number of amendments to the Aliens Act. So it is just to say that even the Left voted in favour in reality of one third of the relaxations that were made. I think that was a pinch, and maybe you should try to think about that again. But back to Mrs Krarup's question. After all, the Minister for Finance, who is also present, has sent down a so-called convergence programme to the European Union, and it shows that under the right conditions, the flow of refugees can contribute to the sustainability of the Danish economy. It's not something I wrote. It is probably not something the Minister of Finance has written either. It's probably something that's been figured out over in the Ministry of Finance. But that requires good and rapid integration, and that is where we have a real dividing line. The Danish People's Party has the most expensive integration policy at all: no integration and full support of all those who come here. I do not think we can afford that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601163344	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601163345	Should I understand that the more asylum seekers, the better the economy? Then I think we have really bright prospects, because we are in a period of migration. There is currently a migration from the Third World. It won't stop. It will continue for many, many years, and the European Union has not managed to stop it either. There are analyses of African countries that show that it is especially from those countries where there is some growth, that is, where there is development, that people leave because they then get the idea that they can live even better in European countries. That means that this influx to Europe will rise and rise and continue to continue. So there's obviously a prospect of an amazing economy if this could be turned into a plus. It just hasn't been possible in the past at all. Twenty-two different integration plans have been tried in this small country, and that has not been achieved. So what is the spell of the Radical Left, which no one else has had, that can turn a negative development into something positive?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601163450	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601163451	First to the facts: we recognise that we are part of the world where people are on the run and that we have committed ourselves to protecting people who are actually persecuted here. We are not talking about any migrant being allowed to stay in Europe. It is not possible to deal with problems in this way. But what I think is important to have said is that the dividing line between the Danish People's Party and us goes by saying that we are in favour of integration as soon as possible and much faster than we have seen in the past, i.e... already in the asylum centres. Nevertheless, we recognise almost nine out of ten of those seeking asylum. That is what can do what the Prime Minister talked about earlier, namely to ensure that people provide for themselves as soon as possible so that the rest of us do not have to support them. The Danish People's Party's policy is the most expensive of all, for you say that no one can support himself and that everyone must be financed by the rest of us. That's just why I don't quite understand the question line. After all, the most expensive model of all has been chosen, the most expensive policy of all, and that is why it puzzles me.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601163551	The next question is Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601163556	Thank you very much. Right now, the Radical Left, together with the other parties, sits in the defence circle and is in the process of buying new fighter planes. Radical Left has indicated that you want to buy fewer fighter planes and that Denmark is not going out so much on international missions in the world. Sir. I would just like to say that I have a great deal of sympathy for this view, but at the same time I would like to ask the rapporteur how the rapporteur thinks that this strategy is in line with the view that it seems that the conciliation circle is purchasing the F-35 combat aircraft, which is, after all, an American fighter aircraft, which is first and foremost highlighted, as a good choice if you are going to go out into the international missions and bombs as an ally with the Americans, and which, first and foremost, wins on those very aggressive attack scenarios on which they have been tested. I would very much like to hear the rapporteur's assessment of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601163652	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601163654	First of all, I think that, after all, we will have respect for the fact that I will not comment on what is going on in those negotiations and what we are sitting and having on concrete considerations, but simply say in general that we have taken part in a defence settlement with open eyes, which included replacing the current jet fighters with some new ones. It has been provided a process for where it has been examined in open tenders with a lot of different offers from different producers. That's where we are today. Then we resigned at the beginning of the parliamentary year at our summer group meeting that we thought we should buy as few fighter planes as possible. What we have also said lately is that we must be certain that the economy does not run away and that there should therefore be a ceiling on how much money they can cost, so that we are sure that the aircraft we buy can be kept within the defence framework. Having said that, we are still standing at the defence settlement which says that Denmark must also have fighter planes in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601163755	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601163758	I understand that the rapporteur is concerned that the economy is going to run away in this battle airplane purchase, because I think there is a very high probability of it doing so. I would probably also bear in mind the fact that I am going to take part in this battle aircraft purchase at all, but I would like to ask the rapporteur: does the rapporteur believe that the purchase of the F-35 fighter aircraft will help to support a more peaceful Danish foreign policy where we do not participate in so many bomb missions in the world?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601163827	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601163828	I certainly believe that we have to deal politically with the fact that what is very much demanded and in which Denmark is highly capable of delivery is not just the fighters who have otherwise filled so much in our discussion about our foreign policy contribution. There are quite obvious challenges in stabilising some of the areas of conflict we have been in, where we have primary competences, and that is why we have also called on the government to try to discuss within the NATO circle, if we should not extend the definition a little of what it is that we are contributing to when it comes to listing what the countries' contributions are. So we see a much broader palette of Danish contributions to creating a more peaceful world than that which has been applied in recent years. But that does not change the fact that we still stand by Denmark having fighter planes, even when the present ones have been served.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601163918	The next question is Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601163921	Thank you. Having heard the rapporteur's speech, it is actually a little difficult to decide on a stand-by basis whether, if all this were to happen, Denmark would be driven on a collision course in a tailing track or whether we would end up in a trail. In the past, the rapporteur has guaranteed that, if the Radical Left were to have the decisive mandates after an election, there would be a relaxation of foreign policy. In fact, in my optics, this corresponds to driving a car blindfolded if I were to stay in the rapporteur's metaphors again. I would like to ask the radical rapporteur whether the Radicals will support a Prime Minister who is in favour of strict immigration policy after an election.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601164012	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601164015	The determining factor in which government we might be able to participate in is not what the Prime Minister is in favour of, but what policy should be pursued. What I have said is that just as when we entered the government in 2011, when there was also a well-known disagreement among the parties that then entered the government, a new immigration policy would have to be created. I have no illusions that it will be the policy of the Radical Left from a to z, unless the day should come when we can decide everything ourselves. On the other hand, I am quite sure that no one is imagining that the radical mandates can be counted without meeting us, and I also think that we have historical evidence to say that this will happen another time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601164057	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601164059	Thank you. I have to understand that a new immigration policy needs to be put in place. I would just be happy if the rapporteur would answer my question, namely: will the Radical Left support a Prime Minister who is in favour of strict immigration policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601164113	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601164115	That's what I said. What matters is not what the Prime Minister is in favour of. I respect the fact that we are different parties. What matters is the policy to be followed. We demonstrated, I think, with all due clarity when we entered the government last time that it was possible to find a compromise between two different starting points which created one, I think, on all fronts better immigration policy. And when the refugee situation changed, we also took stock of it, among other things. with the presentation of a new integration policy. So everyone has to deal with the real world. I'm just saying that it's to pretend perhaps especially to yourself, but at least the Danes are also something if you think that jewelry laws and getting the opportunity to lock people up indefinitely are something that makes any difference compared to how much the bill for the refugee crisis is going to be. It doesn't matter at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601164204	The next question is Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601164206	First of all, congratulations to Mr. Morten Østergaard's daughter, and thank you for your speech. Let's talk about fighter planes. I'd like to ask Sir. Morten Østergaard two specific questions. Does the Radical Left wish to reduce Denmark's combat aircraft capacity, and does the Radical Left generally want to reduce the military's fighting force? The reason why I am asking is that the government has been playing out a proposal to acquire 27 fighters, and that has really been turned on as much as possible: it is assumed that the pilots must be able to work for up to 48 hours a week or more, and that the aircraft can deliver many more hours a year than there is any historical evidence that our fighters can. And there are many other prerequisites, which are also extremely optimistic, for having 27 fighters have the same capacity as the 44 fighters we have today. The Radicals have then played out with 20 fighter planes, and there is no other way to say that this is a major deterioration in Denmark's combat aircraft capacity. I have heard the Radicals say that, and Mr. Morten Østergaard even before that you can bid in with other things. But does this mean that the Radicals want us to offer in with soft power such as advice, foreign aid and such things, or do the Radicals recognise that we need to maintain a combative force in the Danish defence at the level of what we have today?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601164338	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601164340	Let's start with the last one, because I think that really makes the most sense. We have presented a proposal for a new defence policy in order to have a solid basis in the negotiations on, among other things, the Middle East. fighter planes, which are somehow the overture to the next defence settlement. What we have said is that we want a strong international commitment. But we also want to spread the palette out, and we think that there has been too much and too one-sided a focus on contributing with combat aircraft capacity. That is why, from the beginning of the parliamentary year, we have already said that we believe that the number of fighters needed to obtain a certain capacity and to assert our sovereignty and also to be able to participate in international action should be limited, but not necessarily at the same level as we can today. Because we actually believe that there is more need for some countries to be willing to contribute something else. And we can specifically point to stabilisation efforts, which are obviously lacking, while in NATO as a whole there is no shortage of combat aircraft capacity.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601164437	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601164438	But that then gives rise to a few new questions. First, what kind of capacity do the Radicals imagine we should have instead? And here I am looking for the answer that I also sought in my first question: is the softer power in which the Radicals are over, or do the Radicals recognise that the money should first be spent on tanks and frigates or other military force? I am looking for whether the Radicals are trying to disarm the Danish defence at a time when it is more needed than ever, at least in recent decades. The second question I would like to ask is that 20 fighter planes do not allow for participation in international missions. And I have to ask the Radicals: has it regretted the fact that in recent years we have voted in favour of the international missions in which we have sent out fighter planes? Because if the Radicals do not think we should be able to do so any longer, then that is quite a change of course, and does that mean that the Radicals are proposing a completely different security policy than has been the case in recent years, when they have voted in favour?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601164543	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601164545	Once again, we may have to start with the last. In other words, when I say that we have presented a new proposal for a defence policy in which we would like to spread the palette, it is an open and honest recognition that we think more things are needed in the world's hot spots than just being able to contribute with fighters. And it is therefore important to maintain the capacity for it, including things that Mr. Rasmus Jarlov seems to be less military or hard capabilities. But you just have to be aware that fighter planes only mean that you have the opportunity to create peace. What brings lasting peace is stabilisation, and we have seen problems with some of the places we have been, because it is a little small with people who want to take responsibility for it. And that is where we really think there is a real need for some to be willing to lift more than they do today. The second is that of the total appropriations. So, in the field of defence, including the Conservatives, we agree that this acquisition must be possible within defence budgets. That is what we have agreed in the recent defence settlement. I know that the Conservatives would like to spend much more on defence as a whole. However, the conciliation agreement is that combat aircraft must be able to be accommodated within the current defence framework.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601164655	The next question is Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601164659	Thank you, sir. President. Sir. Morten Østergaard mentioned earlier in his rapporteur's speech that radical policy is based on reality and that the rapporteur hopes that other parties' policies will also do so. And I can reassure you that this is the case with the Danish People's Party. I just do not believe that it is the same reality that we find ourselves in compared to the discussion we have on integration challenges in Denmark. Denmark is a country with increasing polarisation, we have parallel communities and no-go zones where the Danish authorities cannot enter. We have Sharia zones and many people who put religion above democracy. We are a country with major economic challenges. The latest forecast says that by 2019 we are missing 48 billion. kr. only to honour the demands that come from the increasing migration and asylum influx to Denmark. This is the reality in which the Danish People's Party finds itself. I do not know where the Radicals are. Because what is going on is that the rapporteur for the Radicals says that if you get the government back, you will roll back and deregulate a large number of the austerity that we others have been so sensible to achieve after the last parliamentary elections. So I would like to ask the rapporteur: does the rapporteur not think that the rest of us are in reality? Or it is the Radicals who have their own reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601164818	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601164820	Oh, we're gonna have to stick to it, there's only one and the same reality, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby. What is then the big question is what we are going to do about the challenges we face. And what is just my recurring claim is that the Danish People's Party has chosen the most cost-effective view, namely that all the refugees who come here must be supported indefinitely by everyone else. None of them can support themselves. Our efforts are to support oneself as soon as possible, and I also understand from the Prime Minister that somewhere in the middle one has an ambition that once the torment has been pulled out for about 12 months, people may be allowed to start supporting themselves. The point is that, regardless of how you turn and turn it, the situation is, of course, that where we can today agree that it is not good enough that only every other adult immigrant is working after 5 and 10 years, then with the view of the Danish People's Party it will be the case that none of them in the new group of refugees must be at work while our position is that more people should be in work and thus contribute. So it is not us who write the government's convergence programme anymore. It is the current government, and it is they who have handed it over to the EU and written out loud and handsomely that, under the right conditions, this can actually contribute to the sustainability of the Danish economy. This is something to be welcomed and helped to become a reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601164939	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601164940	Thank you. I must at least conclude that we are not in the same reality. The rapporteur postulates that it should be the fault of the Danish People's Party that we have these major economic challenges in Denmark because of failed integration. I would therefore like to ask the rapporteur for the Radicals: how many integration plans have the Radicals not been in since 1999? 21 integration agreements have been implemented since 1999. These are 21 plans in 17 years, and has this led to better integration or worse integration? That is where I would say worse integration. Has this resulted in more expensive integration or cheaper integration? I would say, then, that this has probably led to considerably more expensive integration. The rapporteur should not then come and postulate that it is the fault of the Danish People's Party that we are facing these challenges. In fact, the Danish People's Party has insisted quite precisely that a wrong policy has been pursued. The rapporteur also mentions that we should just let the European Union distribute all these many migrants and asylum seekers. You think that's gonna do you any good? How many are coming next year? Will it be 2 million or 1 million? We don't know that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601165049	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601165050	Well, sir. Shipby! The Radical Left therefore had the crucial mandates from 1999 to 2001 and from 2011 to 2015. That's six of the 17 years. So if we are talking about the responsibility for integration in Denmark from 1999 until today, it seems that the Danish People's Party has probably had the crucial mandates for about twice as long as the Radical Left. So it's just to say that you might also have to take on some of the responsibilities. This is not because the Danish People's Party has not been concerned about integration in the years when it had the decisive mandates. But my claim is that no matter how you turn it or how you turn it, the best thing is to look ahead and relate to the reality we are in now. I am just saying that if we insist that no refugees who have come here must support themselves, then it will be expensive for all those who will then have to support the refugees during the period they will be here. The earlier you can get people to support yourself, the less the problem becomes with the number, because then they pay taxes instead of receiving benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601165152	The next question is Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601165154	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for a joint fight against the ceiling on cash benefits. What I would like to ask is about what I understand the rapporteur has had a conversation with her 7-year-old daughter about, namely the society of the future, and congratulations on that. That's a good thing. Has the rapporteur also told her that, according to the rules in force, she will not be entitled to a retirement pension until she reaches the age of 75? Has Daddy told her that he would very much like to see a further advance on the increase in retirement age? Has Daddy warned her to stay far away from hard physical work and mentally stressful work as a SOSU assistant, for then the chance for her to keep on the labour market until she can go on early retirement at the age of 72 is minimal unless Daddy has also got rid of the early retirement scheme completely before she gets that far? Did Daddy tell her those things?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601165247	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601165249	I can say that what so far concerns her most is how long it takes, from the age of 7, until you can call yourself a teenager, and it takes a lot of time in the conversations so far, that is not so much the retirement age. But what matters, in return, when you are at that age, is what it is like with primary school, what it is like with day-care institutions and then leisure homes. And there are the conditions that we have seen in the past year that if we do not create a room for manoeuvre, we all know that we can all be willing to give it some more news, we will experience what we have seen, namely a re-prioritisation in which we ask every day institution and every school to contribute to what the government and the Danish People's Party have agreed, namely that this year it is the turn of the elderly. I think the children will be, if not sad, at least in the long run badly served by it. That is why we are setting a different path, and that is also why we were happy to be part of the early retirement reform and happy to use some of the room for manoeuvre that was created with it together with the Enhedslisten with the finance laws we have made together over recent years.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601165353	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601165355	At 7 years of age, you also start to talk about this by yourself, what you might want to do. And that is where, if you are a responsible father, you say to your daughter: Don't become an assistant to SOSU, don't become a skilled and unskilled worker, because we are making some legislation that makes it a group of people who are left on the platform. FOA says that a quarter of their members do not expect to keep on the labour market until they are 60 years old. 3F says that a quarter of their members have left the labour market at the age of 60. What is the rapporteur's response to these people? They are worn out at an age from the mid-fifties up. They are, after the austerity which the rapporteur himself has helped to do, apparently not sick enough to get early retirement and sickness benefit, but they are also not healthy enough to work. What are these people gonna do for a living? Yeah, they can live on cash benefits if they're lucky.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601165453	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601165456	Yes, I think that the nuance of the question towards the end tells your own little story, because if you are worn out I also said that in my speech and it is, whether you are 55 or 65 years old, and whether we set the retirement age by 2025 or 2030, the community must of course be there. That is beyond question. However, somewhere I think that the ambitions of the life expectancy that we have must be a labour market where you are not worn out at the age of 60. Now I do not quite know whether it should be understood that Enhedslisten believes that the retirement age should be reduced to 60 years for the sake of those who are worn out. I would prefer that we have good arrangements for those who are worn out and then ask all of us who can to continue to contribute and also let those who have taken a long education and have thus also entered the labour market continue. But it is basically a question of creating structures in the labour market, among other things. In this context, I should like to thank the rapporteur for the excellent work he has done on this subject. I think we could find some progressive answers to that. But, in common with all those answers, it will probably be necessary to invest, to have room for manoeuvre, to invest in continuing training, in retraining, and to have room for manoeuvre. And I see that the best way to do that, if the money is not to be picked up in day care institutions or high schools, or where money has now been raised in recent years, is for all of us to see that we are living longer just giving it another nourishment, so we can afford to help those who are in difficulty.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601165627	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601165630	Thank you. I was somewhat ensnared by that discussion about the integration of everyone, that is, that when people come here, they just have to be integrated, and that when it was not possible in the past, it was because the Radicals have not been sitting with the crucial mandates for more than six out of 17 years? I think I'm just gonna leave that alone. What I'd like to hear, sir. Morten Østergaard tells me about the number. Well, we've had some talgymnastics lately about that with how many we can actually take in. We in the Danish People's Party do not think that we can take very many. We think, in fact, that we have taken enough on this task, but there are other political friends who are closer to Mr. Morten Østergaard, who has had some other figures. Social democracy operates with something between 1,000 and 10,000, closer to 1,000 than 10,000, the alternative says: We can at least easily take 10,000 more, but at 50,000 it will probably become a challenge. So where does the Radical Left actually stand in relation to these numbers? How many of us can cope with the integration that Mr. Morten Østergaard also says is absolutely essential for it to be yes, he probably thinks it will be a profit business if we just do it right. How many can we take? Where is Mr. Morten Østergaard and the Radical Left on this scale? Between 1,000 and 10,000 say Social Democracy, and 10,000 to 50,000 say the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601165748	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601165749	Yes, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby, who said that there had been 21 integration plans since 1999, and then I just pointed out the obvious, namely that at least for every year the Radical Left has had the decisive mandates, there have been 2 years when it was the Danish People's Party that had it. So somehow the responsibility must be that it has not gone quite as it had been expected, at least being divided. And then I just acknowledge that the Danish People's Party has had a persistent interest in the issue of integration and refugees all these years. So I guess in some way you have to take on some of the responsibilities. Then there's this question. We've had a little competition up on the radical walk. You should try to guess what questions I would get. I think there are some who are relieved that the question of the number of refugees finally came because otherwise it might have been a very strange discussion and debate. But at the beginning of this calendar year, I had invited Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl down at Nyborg Strand, where we, even with Mrs Mette Frederiksen, among others. discussed this question. There the present television journalist equipped us with a piece of cardboard and a alcohol pen, and then each of us had to write how many refugees Denmark can take. And nothing came, because none of us at the time thought it made sense to write such a number. That is why I just want to say that my answer is the same. I can work out how to repeat the same six months in a row. It may be that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl thinks otherwise today than he did on the first Saturday in January, but I really think it makes very good sense to say that it certainly depends on how many refugees are on the run in the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601165912	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601165913	It also depends on what you do in relation to the refugees and migrants who then come to a country. It is here that the water really separates, because we did not in the Danish People's Party at any time pretend to the Danes that we could succeed in integrating these people into Danish society. We have always maintained that the purpose of refugee policy must be to help people in need until they can return home, where the Radical Left has always wanted this integration process. That is why I think the Radical Left has quite a responsibility for everything that has happened in relation to these things. It also has something to do with the number. If the number isn't kept down significantly and there's just more and more people coming in, it's an impossible job to integrate these people. 21,200 applied for asylum in 2015. Then the people who are being brought together in the family come on top of it. After all, it will be quite a lot of thousands of people who have to be integrated, have jobs, have housing with all the costs that the municipalities are talking about. Well, then, sir. Morten Østergaard does not see the point that it may now be time to enter into this discussion about how many people can actually come to Danish society if things are to work too?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601170023	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601170025	What I quietly point out is that this discipline in which the Danish People's Party excels, namely that you are sitting with the crucial mandates for a number of years, but no responsibility will be taken for what the results of the policy pursued are, cannot go on. Now you are even the largest party in the government coalition, and I can almost sense that it is the same song that you want to sing, that is that what goes well can be credited for, and what goes badly is because you did not get through with your policy. Then we must end cooperation if we are not satisfied with how it develops. But what is the crucial dividing line, and that is where I think we have to stick to it, is that I say openly and honestly that no one knows when the refugees can return home, because no one knows when there is peace and happiness in Syria to a degree so that they can return. So the faster people get to work, the less they become a financial burden. The most expensive point of view is Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. It is that none of them must support themselves and that they must be supported indefinitely by all others. It simply makes no sense if we are concerned that the financial burden of the refugee crisis should be as low as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601170130	The next question is Mr. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601170133	Thank you. Now I noticed that the radical rapporteur replied a moment ago to Mr Seligman's question. Finn Sørensen said that it was a radical policy that we all had to lift the common burden and that we had to work a little longer, and he also entered retirement age and so on. Then I note that the Prime Minister's candidate for the Radicals, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, has recently said that she did not see any need to make reforms which further increased the supply of labour. How does Mr. Morten Østergaard on that statement? Mr. Morten Østergaard, that was a sensible statement?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601170201	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601170202	I think that the best thing to do is to put forward the policy we intend to pursue openly and honestly so that the electorate can take a position on it. That is why I presented in good time before the parliamentary elections the plans we had up to 2025 to ensure that we did not see what we have seen in the past years of cuts in education and research, redistribution from day care institutions and schools to the elderly in the municipalities, etc. I've left that open. It described the President of the Left, the current Prime Minister, as mere masochism. And now I understand that you might be warming up for the pipe to get a slightly different sound. What matters to me is the political results. I should like to take the lead as an icebreaker and try to say some of what people may not always want to hear if it gets popular over time or at least wins ear. But let's see. I think we should try to see if we can find a way to work together on this, and I hope that the Socialists and the Left too will help to make some of these reforms, so that we are free to cut back on what we have to live on in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601170307	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601170308	I took that as a clear no. It is therefore a very unwise statement, and therefore also an attitude, which Mrs Mette Frederiksen, the Prime Minister of the Radicals, has shown here, so that there is no need to make the further labour market reforms that increase the supply of labour, because the Radicals have a vertical disagreement with that. So what picture do you radicals think it draws? I noted just now that the radical rapporteur also replied to my good colleague, Mrs Jane Heitmann, that there was a great deal of disagreement with the immigration policy which Mrs Mette Frederiksen is now calling for, in other words, that it should be a strict immigration policy which must be understood by the Socialists. So now we have two very crucial areas: we have the immigration policy, on which we very much disagree with our Prime Minister's candidate, and we now also have the labour market area, on which we very much disagree with his Prime Minister's candidate. - Sir... Morten Østergaard not well see that it draws some picture of some mud?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601170358	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601170359	I think in my rapporteur's speech I tried to describe that I think there is a lot of mud and, for that matter, nonsense in the Folketing and very few results. But what I can do then is compare what happened during the four-year period when we sat in government and where we certainly made reforms, also more than most people had expected, I think. We reached close to an increase in employment of 30,000. I can then compare this with the current government, which has barely come up with an increase in employment by 1,000 in the first year. If what I am proposing is masochism, I do not know what to call it, that you whip on those who have least in advance. But at least I would say that I do not think it is difficult to understand why we come to the conclusion that we have greater influence in a social democratic government, because we have demonstrated and documented this, and we can do so again.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601170456	The next question is Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601170458	Thank you. I would like to congratulate Mr. Morten Østergaard's rapporteur speech. Stylistically, it is a Mercedes, but as soon as you get into it, you find that it is a makeup corpse, and that is especially when you listen to the rapporteur's answer. Let us take the questions that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl addressed Mr. Morten Østergaard. There was no answer. So I would like to follow up on that. How many migrants and refugees do Mr. Morten Østergaard that we can go to Denmark? There are approx. 70 million people on the run, and that figure has been fairly constant, so we can also demand that the leader of the Radical Left put a figure on it. The Liberal Alliance has done that: 4,000 a year. The Social Democrats: More than 1,000 than 10,000. Sir. Morten Østergaard must also be able to give us a figure so that he does not have a makeup corpse to present, but still also a Mercedes content.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601170602	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601170603	Well, I'd like to re-tell a little anecdote about how it was certainly not possible for the TV 2 journalist present at the debate session on the first Saturday of January to have Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl to write a number on a piece of cardboard. The opportunity was there, it was live television, everyone's eyes turned to Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, but he didn't write a number. Neither did Mrs Mette Frederiksen, nor did I, because that depends on how many refugees are coming to Europe. But that is clear, and I would like to say this openly and honestly, and I think I have said this before that, of course, it means that there will be many people at the same time, that the integration task will be bigger and more challenging and more costly. But all the more important it is to ensure that people are able to support themselves as quickly as possible, and that is why I do not understand why we insist that they should waste the first 12 months doing nothing in an asylum centre when we know that nine out of ten of them are still granted a residence permit.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601170701	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601170702	Sir. Morten Østergaard sounds more and more like a used car dealer who won't tell the customer what car it really is. I therefore believe that the electorate is entitled to find out how many refugees and migrants the Radical Left will receive in Denmark. And I actually think that you make a fool of the voters when you don't want to tell them. It's actually dishonest. Mr. Morten Østergaard, that it's 50,000, 100,000, 150,000 including family reunification? Let us then have an honest talk about it, instead of referring to the fact that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl hasn't said it, and that Mette Frederiksen hasn't said it either. That's not good enough, sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601170750	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601170750-2	But I do not believe that an absolute number can be meaningfully added. However, I recognise openly and honestly that the more there are, the greater the challenge and the more expensive the integration effort is and, of course, it requires a greater priority for the common resources. But what I do not understand is that all the parties that care so much about the number and discuss it the way they do it do not take the mathematics to help. So why is it that it is not said that when we receive more refugees than the average in Europe, measured against our size, it must be an advantage to make an agreement? Just as you look at it in Sweden and Germany, it must be an advantage to make an agreement with the other European countries that we divide the task between us. Denmark should take the lead in that fight. That's the only way to sort it out. In any case, if you take the mathematics to help, it will not lead to more refugees, perhaps less as a proportion of those who come to Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601170853	Thank you. Unfortunately, we will not make any more brief comments in this round. I would like to thank the rapporteur of the Radicals. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr as rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601170907	Thank you. You know where you've been, I'm afraid. Now we know it, but the voters did not know it a year ago, because the Left is quite a different place now than they were in the election campaign. I am not just thinking of the fact that the Left is in government today. However, while the Left spoke a year ago about more money for welfare, they are talking today about a re-priority contribution, which is called a reduction contribution in general Danish. The left then talked about tax relief at the bottom. Today, the Left wants tax relief at the top for those who already have plenty. And the left said nothing about the U-turn they have made when it comes to the green switch to the detriment not only of the environment and climate, but also of the business community. Anders Fogh Rasmussen's green awakening years ago. However, there are points where the Left was honest before the elections: Left promised cuts in cash aid. They have fulfilled that promise, unfortunately. About 10,000 have become poorer, two thirds of them are children. It pays to work for just as many people as it could before the cash benefits ceiling. And the employment effect is modest, even with the government's own biased methods of calculation. The left promised to help agriculture. That promise is also fulfilled, but they forgot to tell us that the bill has to be paid by taxpayers in violation of the principle of taking responsibility for their own actions. I thought that was a good liberal principle. The agricultural package increases the climate impact and leaves the problem of nitrogen unresolved, because what has been agreed in the new nature package is patchy. Thus, the Left's aid to agriculture is short-term, like most other thing that the Left does. In the long term, in fact, the Left is damaging agriculture, because the future of agriculture really lies in the green conversion, not in its counter-measures, and not least in the development of the agricultural industries. Agriculture could actually play a very important role in the development of many new jobs and new industries, but the Left does not have the ambitions. Now we know where we have left. A lot has happened in Danish politics in the past year, and there are probably some who voted blue in the elections, who thought it was difficult to tell the difference between what the previous government did and what the Left promised. Do you not think most people have realized the difference, for it does not require a magnifying or eyeglassing? In the area of welfare, there was little money under the previous government, yes. The economy was tighter, and something tighter than strictly necessary. But the Left takes directly from welfare. The municipalities are subject to a re-priority contribution, or let us just call it what it is, namely a downgrade contribution. In fact, the government has promised that the municipalities will get the money back in 2017, but there will be a billion bill in 2018 and 2019. And then the unchanged economy really means cuts in the municipalities, because we all know very well that there will be many more elderly people. So it hits the elderly, the kindergartens, the schools and the vulnerable citizens, including the disabled. Research and education are also getting some decent cuts, although these are areas on which we must live in the future. It is not raw materials that we can live on in Denmark. It's the raw material that's in your head, even on Mr. Knox's head. Morten Østergaard's daughter Johanne, we must live on. Left says that cuts are necessary. That's not true. That is a political priority. The priority given by the Left is tax cuts of 4 billion. kr., most of which go to the best. If you had held back a little, perhaps there would have been a few billion extra for welfare and investment. But the Left hasn't held back. On the contrary, the Left will distribute additional gifts to the best-off in the form of top tax relief, despite the fact that the Left, before the elections, claimed that tax relief should come at the bottom. Well, I guess there's a little change set aside for tax cuts at the bottom, but apparently the big amount needs to be spent at the top. For many years, we have seen an increase in inequality, a rise that is deeply unfair and leaves too many people in poverty or what is close to them and, at the same time, is detrimental to the economy. It's a curve that SF thinks we should crack. This is vitally important. But the Left has just given the development extra gas. It makes much more sense to make maximum efforts to stop tax fraud instead of tax evasion, which costs the state billions and helps to increase inequality. Because it's the best people who spend the money. The left also knows where you have when it comes to language. They've studied George Orwell thoroughly and learned a new language where words don't mean what you'd think. For example, "cuts" are called "cuts." "Reassignment of priority', "Minister of Agriculture' is called "Minister of Environment and Food', and "Black Environmental Policy' is called "Green Realism'. Let me just deal with this lately. It is clear to everyone that it takes a microscope to find the green elements of the government's environmental and climate policy. The government has otherwise signed the Paris agreement on climate, but barely the ink was dry before giving discounts to the cars that pollute the most while the electric cars become more expensive. The development of renewable energy sources is being cut happily and will even run from the supply of coastal wind turbines in progress. There is not so much concern for business or credibility here. The brakes on energy-saving activities are being imposed, and the result is that Denmark is very far from achieving the target of 40%. CO 2 Green realism • yes, I think there is no doubt that for the Left means "green" in the best Orwell style of coal. But note that green realism has nothing to do with realism. A few weeks ago, the so-called Minister for the Environment and Food expressed shock at the demands for a smaller CO2 but the approximate size of those demands has been known for over a year and the SF has repeatedly said that it is a matter of getting started as soon as possible. Because when the government moves in the wrong direction, both when it comes to cars and when it comes to the climate influence of farmers, the task gets bigger. They have been obtained by the reality of the real reality. Another reality is green businesses. This is where it goes best for Danish business. Here there is progress, exports and new jobs for good pay. The government wants to preserve those jobs, but the reality is that when you cut down on the green ambitions, the new green jobs come not in Denmark, but in the countries that overtake us while the government runs backwards on the green track. Now I'm hardly being offered jobs in the Left Secretariat, and certainly not after this a little scratchy review, but if you were to offer me one, I would give some input on how Denmark and the world could be drawn in a better direction, how we could combat inequality. In SF we are very concerned that all children, regardless of their background, will have the opportunity to live out their potential and contribute to the community, just as the Prime Minister's own background makes clear. It is wonderful when children inherit their parents' blue eyes and curls, but not their debts or vulnerable social situation. The whole children's area needs a huge lift, for more hands. I would also provide input on how to restore security in the labour market, because a secure labour market is the cornerstone of our community. We must create a labour market with less Uber and Ryanair and more security and solidarity and where we cannot look forward to German wages. And if I were to come up with not just a few sheets, but probably a lot of suggestions on how to get the green transition going, I would provide input on how agriculture can both create jobs and export and exist in harmony with nature, how green jobs are created in our industry and how we ensure clean drinking water in the future, too, and much, much more. I don't think the Prime Minister is inviting me to join his secretariat, but I'm allowed to dream. All of this is wishful thinking, because the Left is actually well aware of where you have right now, unfortunately. What Denmark needs is for us to get the Left somewhere other than on the government bench as soon as possible. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601171757	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. We'll start with sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601171802	Thank you very much. If Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr wants a job in the Left Secretariat, send an application and I will look at it very kindly. I actually think that Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr is doing even more good where she is today. During the SF's national meeting, Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr drew attention to this with the massive flow of refugees from the Middle East and North Africa, and that failed integration threatens our free and open society. Is it intended as a recognition that the policy pursued when one was sitting in a government, on the one hand, and a government on the other, supported the previous government and the relaxations that were carried out, have contributed to the fact that too many people have come to Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601171853	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601171854	I think it is a recognition that the war in Syria over the last few years has brought much more refugees to Europe's borders and to Denmark's borders. I am certainly concerned about the number, there should be no doubt about that. Because the challenge we face is only going to be greater in terms of integration, the more refugees we get to the country. When we get 10,000, we have an integration effort in the municipalities. It gets bigger when we get 15,000 or 20,000, and we recognize that. But that is because there are more refugees in the world and because the situation in Syria has deteriorated. That is why we have seen an increase in the flow of refugees over the last few years.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601171930	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601171931	There is certainly no doubt that it has a very, very great effect. But do the concessions that have been made also have an effect? And then in the opposite direction: we have introduced an integration benefit. Will the SF remove that integration benefit and where will you get the money from? That was a lot of questions at once. I hope they're hanging on.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601171956	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601171956-2	I think it is crucial that we look at ensuring proper integration. Proper integration is linked to the fact that people actually have stability in their lives. The prerequisite for that is that you can also bring your family here. So, no, I actually think it was a good idea to relax the policy of foreigners in relation to family reunification. And I was against it when the government tightened the rules, so it had to be three years before you could see your family. Then there is the amount of integration benefits. I was pleased that we abolished the start-up benefit introduced by the previous government, because we could see that integration would work much better. I wish people would go back home tomorrow, but they won't. They're gonna be in this country for a lot of years, because there won't be peace in Syria in a couple of years or ten years, or maybe not even 15 years. So the people we receive, we also have to make an integration effort so that they also contribute to this society. That's why the number means a lot. However, this also requires that we do not start with the integration effort.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601172057	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601172058	Thank you. I have simply looked forward to asking Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr a question on the basis of an article in the Jyllands-Posten today. I do not know what the effect of being taken as an income for something you have not said yourself about must be. It must be a mistake on the part of the journalist, and I would like to remedy that by giving Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr the opportunity to deal with it. Because in this report, which is of course about Enhedslisten and the Alternative is making such an alternative alliance in some way to try to provoke a possible formation of government outside the Social Democracy, the SF is incomed for it, i.e. seen as part of a three-clover. And when the three-clover is greater than the Social Democracy, one gets the opportunity to get, we can understand, such a really new thinking into Danish politics, that is, away from this neoliberal, etc., as Mr. Bjarne Corydon and the like stood for in his day. I just want to ask Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr: do you see yourself as part of such a three-leaf clover? Can you see the visions that are being drawn up as the way forward, perhaps in order to get a whole new orientation in relation to the policy being pursued in this country?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601172210	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601172212	I'm so glad I can do that, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl happy. Everybody's gonna be happy. I would also like to give an answer on that article. I'm preoccupied with getting a new government in Denmark. I think that the government that is sitting right now is making very bad for Denmark: making people poorer, helping to destroy the green transition, etc. And so, of course, we point to Mrs Mette Frederiksen as a new Prime Minister in Denmark. That is what creates a majority; it is what creates 90 mandates and it takes 90 mandates to get a new policy in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601172243	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601172244	Well, sir. Søren Espersen from the Danish People's Party has been disappointed in the past. Such a front page of Jyllands-Posten he thought he lasted for six hours or something. Now it is not three parties, but two parties, so there are some who come to hard work. What we can at least say is that it flies a little in all kinds of directions. I mean, at least some people say that this is a crucial thing. But the background to that, I can also understand, is the demand of some parties that these restrictions on foreigners, which we have been implementing since the summer, be rolled back. Well, sir. Uffe Elbæk has said that it is all alien straits that need to be rolled back. I asked Mr. Pelle Dragsted from Enhedslisten, whether it was also Enhedslisten's view, and that was it. I would also like to ask Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr in the same direction: can we get some picture of whether it is also the position of the SF that all the restrictions on foreigners which have now been implemented since this summer should be rolled back? Or should a large part of them be rolled back? Can we get some substantive knowledge of how SF views that particular point?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601172347	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601172348	Now the Danish People's Party, together with other parties, including the SF, entered into a voting agreement only yesterday on radicalisation, and of course we are on the target for that. After all, we are concerned about making integration work and, in fact, getting hold of these hateful preachers who help to say to women who are subjected to violence and whose children may also be subjected to violence that it is quite right. We are very clearly opposed to this, and we will also be working with the government to do more in the context of social control and to take up the fight against it. When it comes to exactly alien tightenings, I do not think it is a secret that the SF voted against the family reunification rules, the jewellery law and a halving of the integration benefit. It's SF's policy. But then we expect us to work together where we will debate and discuss, and then we will see where it goes. It's kind of, like, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl does not always get his policy implemented with this government, but I will then try, perhaps a little harder, to get my policy implemented with a future S-led government.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601172453	The next question is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601172454	Thank you. SF has just helped to criminalize statements from Witnesses when they are acting in an educational situation. Will Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr then not explain what the SF thinks, when the SF's rapporteur says about SF's support for the government's proposal, that it has gone from criminalising statements to being something notable other? And would Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr not, in this context, explain whether SF believes that SF has contributed to restricting freedom of expression, or whether SF believes that SF has not contributed to restricting freedom of expression?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601172536	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601172537	Where we have engaged is in connection with religious preachers who are in a situation where they provide direct training for others. It may be a priest, an imam, a rabbi who is in a church situation or in the mosque or in the synagogue. There they must not call for violence, terrorism, rape and other things. You can't do that today, either. It's actually illegal. In addition, we have extended it in relation to express approval of terrorism, which is also illegal, and rape, incest and multi-wifery. This is a limitation for a small group of people who are not allowed to approve these statements. The reason why we have been involved in this is terrible broadcasts, among other things. The mosques behind the veil, where we see imams directly inexpensive violence against children. SF isn't prepared for that. We have been a very great champion of the abolition of the right of retribution. That's where the Radicals were. I hope, in fact, that the Radicals will support the idea that today public church priests should not do so. Why should it be okay for imam to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601172641	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601172642	Could it be said, if you were a little naughty, and I allow myself to be here, that it is talking with two tongues when you say, on the one hand, that you do not restrict freedom of expression, while on the other hand you say that you are now fighting radicalisation by hitting hard on the utterances of religious preachers when they are in a learning situation? How does Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr think that people who speak with two tongues are best dealt with?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601172713	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601172714	SF doesn't speak with two tongues. We have hit very hard on the challenges we face with social control in religious environments that are precisely pushing young people, but also, in fact, adult women into a specific situation. We take this quite seriously, and there should be no doubt that in the church of the people, church priests are not allowed to make such utterances. They can't approve of these statements. Then they risk an official case. If primary school teachers get into this situation and approve of these statements, they're also facing layoffs. I cannot understand why this is not the case with other religious communities as well. And I cannot understand why the Radical Left says that it is quite okay if it is done by Muslims or for that matter by Jews, while it is not in the church of the people. I believe that there must be equality before the law, including for different religions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601172800	The next question is Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601172803	Thank you. It was a nice clear speech from Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, I would say such a classic socialist speech I thought I was until 1 May. Now I've never tried to be, but I could imagine that it's something like that. I think the rapporteur has said that welfare is under threat. Then I think: if welfare is threatened in Denmark, it looks bad in the rest of the world, so if we say that the welfare of this country is under threat. Could the rapporteur please tell me where the money will come from to the flow of promises of improvement? Who's going to make the money for the monster-sized public sector that SF wants?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601172848	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601172849	I'd like to give Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen a copy of my speech afterwards, because I think that one should quote correctly if one is to quote, but peace be with it. The SF does not promise gold and green forests, we are, in fact, a very financially responsible party, and that is why we are also concerned that when, for example, we get to know what we are doing. have promised investors something and they have invested millions of kroner in coastal mills, so do not let them down afterwards and pull the blanket away under those that the government is laying up for. We know that if we invest in the children's area, make sure that there are more educators in the day-care institutions, then there is also a much greater chance that children will actually receive youth education afterwards and thereby also get to work. So it's an investment in the future. Where are we gonna find the money? I would like to find them on the reliefs you have made for the heirs, the reliefs you have made on the most expensive cars, the reliefs you have made on the most expensive homes in Denmark in the most expensive municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601172945	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601172948	I am sorry if I quoted it this way after memory... it may have happened sometimes. In relation to rolling it back, I would like to say that it is all housing if, for example, we are going to roll it back. Talk about the guilt. It is then SF's policy that pensioners should be chased out of their house that they have bought and paid for. But does Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr think that this is enough to finance the promises now to be made? Is that enough? Where's the limit? Where is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr's limit to the size of the public sector?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601173027	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601173028	I think it is important that we drop the re-priority contribution that the Conservatives have voted for, drop the 2-percent cuts that have to be made every year in the municipalities, which are going to go beyond the elderly, going beyond the children, will have consequences in the primary school. After all, it is an investment in our community, an investment in the community, which also benefits the private sector because they get well-qualified labour, they get skilled young people into apprenticeships. I have just made a proposal in relation to the six municipalities that you have frozen the basic guilt in the area and I am sure that you also drank champagne in your group room when you got it in the Finance Act; or was it only the Liberal Alliance who did so when they relieved the treasure of the most expensive cars in Denmark? I would just like to make it very clear that we do not want to give priority to what we prefer, that we do not have a re-priority contribution, that the money is actually left in the municipalities and allowed the municipalities a little freedom to invest in the community as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601173125	Thank you. Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601173129	Thank you. I would like to thank you for a good rapporteur's speech with a lot of edge to the government and blue bloc, and also for your good cooperation over the past year. I hope that we will be able to expand it. I believe that the parties to the left of the Social Democratic Party must stick together on some important points if we are to have the maximum benefit of a new majority. However, what I would like to ask is a statement made by Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr in connection with the SF's national meeting, where she said that it was a mistake to sign the 2011 government base of the previous government, which stated that the economic policy of the VKO government would be pursued in the broadest sense, including the reform of early retirement and unemployment benefits. My question is: has the SF also discussed whether it was a mistake to help implement the reforms that were, after all, at the heart of economic policy, in other words, some rather harsh labour market reforms and some tax cuts that were largely paid by people on transfer income? There I am a little curious to hear whether we have taken the same step of discussing whether it was right to contribute to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601173239	Here you go, Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601173240	Thank you. There is no doubt that continuing the bourgeois economic policy of the VK was a mistake. I did not say that it was a mistake to sign the constitution. I said that it was a mistake to pursue bourgeois economic policy, and it has also had consequences. Too many benefit recipients fell through the system. A solution should have been found for the many people who ended up outside the cash register system and in the cash assistance system, some with no income at all. At the same time, there is no doubt that the SF would have liked us to have maintained the post-retirement wage, but there was only another majority in the Folketing at that time. The Danes chose to put together a majority of blue politicians who could determine it. I thought that was sad. There should be no doubt about that. If the rapporteur specifically asks about, among other things: I would like to say, in relation to cash aid, that we had together abolished the poverty benefit. We were able to protect them together over 30 years, which this government has not protected. In fact, we also had some challenges with the mutual dependent, but after some time we had it abolished together for those who are roommates and not married. I think it makes good sense for young people under the age of 30 to be in education and work, and they have come to that on a large scale.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601173401	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601173402	Thank you. I know what Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr said, and I would not try to interpret it as if it had at all been done with itself on the issue of participation in the government, but it was a very important phrase in the government's constitution. There is no doubt that it was an ultimatum from the Radicals that it came to be there. What was my point and my point is that all the reforms, i.e. unemployment benefits, early retirement, flexible jobs, sickness benefits and cash benefits reforms, are listed on the same side of the government base and that they are, of course, the implementation of economic policy. And the same applies to the tax reform, which was largely paid by the transfer income. The view of the unitary list is that those reforms have greatly contributed to increasing inequality and increasing insecurity for employees in this country, and there I would like to hear the rapporteur's view on whether there might also be a mistake there.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601173455	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601173457	I will not be able to go through all the agreements we have made, but in relation to early retirement, we introduced what is called resource cycles. It has actually been SF policy for a very, very many years that you had to look at the individual instead of automatically continuing that some, because they were ill, came on early retirement and that you had to look at whether there were any opportunities there. Let me just give you an example. My own younger brother, at the age of 23, was offered early retirement instead of being offered a real course so that he could be retrained and in a new job. Only after a crazy fight with the City of Copenhagen did he succeed in rehabilitation and later in new work, and he now sails on the Danish gardens and pays taxes to Denmark. The reason I'm saying this is because I actually think it makes sense. Then we can discuss whether it needs to be improved, and we will do so in the conciliation circle. I'm so sorry that Enhedslisten isn't, because then we could improve it together.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601173551	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601173555	Thank you. Right now, there are negotiations on a new reform of high school, which I understand is a little sandy on the basis of a question of admission requirements. Earlier today, Mrs Mette Frederiksen said that it was because of the desire to deprive young people of the opportunity to break the social heritage that they rejected the de facto demand for an average of 4 which already applies today. And I've heard that the Socialist People's Party doesn't like this character requirement of 4. What is the Socialist People's Party's justification for not wanting to support the de facto demand that already exists today?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601173642	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601173643	It is true that there is a requirement that, when you go to primary school, you should be ready for further education in high school. But you can actually have less than 4 averages and yet go to high school because it will be up to an individual evaluation. Perhaps the motivation of the individual student is high, and then one succeeds in being assessed as an educational preparation. But we leave it safe for the teachers. In fact, we have some confidence that they can assess these various elements before they let people loose on youth education. Our focus is, of course, on the fact that we think that as many young people as possible should have a youth education, because if they do not, they will be very bad in the future. Unskilled people find it difficult to get jobs in Denmark, and after 2020 we will have 50,000 unskilled people who will need a job. We take this seriously, and that is why we believe that as many young people as possible should receive youth education.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601173735	Here you go, sir. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601173737	Thank you. That was not really an answer. However, I am a little surprised that the rapporteur says that it should be because we need to have the opportunity to receive youth education. This possibility exists in vocational training, which can be dealt with without having an average grade of 4. Does this mean that the Socialist People's Party does not attach any value to vocational training and that it is not considered to be good enough as a youth education? It is a very funny angle to have to do things when you now claim to be a working party, so that in some way it is not fine enough to be a vocationally educated person, since you should preferably have as many as possible into high school.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601173836	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601173837	I think this is such a reverse world. Because what the Danish People's Party demands in the negotiations is a character requirement of 7. There, then, a clear distinction will be made between secondary schools and vocational training, so it is particularly good to get into secondary schools and then those who enter vocational training, so little is the losing team. But SF doesn't share that view. We think vocational training is important. We believe that skilled labour is very important, including for the future. We are not educational snobs, and we are deeply puzzled at the Danish People's Party's Act in these negotiations, so that they will demand a higher level of admission to the colleges than they do to vocational training.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601173917	Then it's Mrs. Britt Baker, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601173920	Thank you. As Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr said in her speech: the Left knows where you have. Yeah, you do, but where do we have SF? I do not think I am exaggerating by saying that the SF has conducted quite a slinging course in connection with foreign policy. That is why I would like to follow up on my colleague, Mr President. Mr Ellemann-Jensen's question about the integration service. I understood that SF will not abolish the integration benefit, and therefore I would like to hear Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr: what does Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr think it will do about the flow of foreigners to Denmark if we again introduce cash aid for refugees?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601174004	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601174005	SF conducts a fairly clear foreign policy. We believe it is important to look at integration and ensure that it succeeds, and not just talk about it in symbols, as I notice that many people in this Parliament do, but actually find out what sort of grip it takes. We have made 56 different suggestions • this is something you can check on our website if you need it. The second part concerns the number of refugees. We are also concerned about the number, there should be no doubt about that, and we do believe that it is important for Europe to take shape. There are countries in Europe that barely receive refugees, and that is why we believe that quota arrangements should be applied. So there's no slinging course here. In relation to the integration service, it is true that the SF voted against it. We believe that it makes it harder to succeed with integration out there, and I know that many of the mayors of the Left because I have talked to a number of them, are worried about the integration benefit, because that means that they have difficulty finding accommodation for the refugees they are going to receive. And what does that really mean? This means that the citizens of the municipality end up having to take money out of the box to pay for housing for refugees.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601174111	I just need to remind you that you don't say. Here you go, Mrs. Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601174117	Thank you to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr for her honest answer. That was more than we could get out of the Socialist President, Mrs Mette Frederiksen. That then leads me to my next question. Because if Mrs Mette Frederiksen stands by that she will not change the policy being pursued today, can the SF back a prime minister candidate who will not roll back the integration benefit?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601174145	Then I owe it to the rapporteur to say that there has to be quiet about the platform up here, so do not speak too loudly next door, thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601174155	Thank you, President. First of all, I have not seen Mette Frederiksen not telling the truth, and I really think it is quite gross that the Left's question suggests it in the Chamber. I think that is actually unacceptable, but peace with it is obviously the political way in which the Left does things. In relation to whether the integration benefit will be an ultimate demand by the SF in pointing to Mrs Mette Frederiksen as Prime Minister, I would say: No, it will not be an ultimate requirement, but it is not SF's policy. But we are concerned about having a new government in Denmark • a government that actually takes integration seriously; a government that will also seek European solutions to the refugee challenge we face and, above all, will ensure the green transition that Denmark needs.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601174239	Thank you. Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601174242	Thank you. Like my President, I have been looking forward to asking questions to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. That is because the rapporteur here a few months ago actually caused me to fall off my couch. I saw the rapporteur taking part in a programme at Clement Kjersgaard, and she called the Danish People's Party whole racists. I have been thinking a lot about what caused the rapporteur to report so clearly and say that the Danish People's Party was helracists. Because if there's anything the Danish People's Party is, then it's realists. The Danish People's Party has not been the most sensitive, just as the SF has been, in relation to non-western women, to minority women. As the rapporteur has also admitted, the SF has failed the whole minority area in relation to women, but has now been out to sign up as banners in this area. What made Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr say those things about the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601174349	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601174351	Mrs Karina Adsbøl is probably aware that I have regretted that statement, because the Danish People's Party as a party is not something like that. I referred to some specific people, and later I have even apologized because one of the specific people was not convicted in court. The others were.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601174411	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601174413	Then I accept the apology from Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. And then I would like to ask whether SF agrees with the Danish People's Party that there should be no special consideration for minorities, for example. on the issue of gender-separated swimming teams, because this is precisely helping to increase the social control to which these women are subjected. There are also some boys who are exposed to it. That was one question. The second is whether Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr insists that the money box should be closed to women with a non-western background. SF has been out to say that they must be deprived of their cash benefits. I suppose that also applies to men and not just to women.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601174456	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601174457	Today it is already the case that if you do not accept assigned work, you may lose your cash benefits. This applies to both men and women of different origins, both foreign and Danish origins. What we have proposed is that it should also apply to education; that we give these women an opportunity to come down and go in the ninth grade, perhaps learn Danish. Because what I think is crucial to ensuring integration is to help these women out of their homes. Some of them don't have the option. Some of them are practically locked up 24 hours a day by their husband. We have to help these women. I leave it to the specific social worker to assess what action is needed. But when I visit shelters, which I have done a lot lately, and experience women being beaten all day; women who experience things you cannot even imagine exist in Denmark, then I am willing to use all instruments to help them. I do not think it is acceptable for women to be so subjected to patriarchal women's views.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601174559	Then it's mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601174602	Thank you. I just want to start by correcting a misunderstanding. My colleague Britt Baker certainly did not accuse the President of the Social Democratic Party of speaking untruely, just a little bit unclear. It's just that that misunderstanding doesn't affect the debate in the Chamber. Earlier in the debate, Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr's party colleague Lisbeth Bech Poulsen asked a question where Lisbeth Bech Poulsen SF mentioned that the Blue Left Government will carry out an unsympathetic and unsolidarous tax reform in the autumn. I find it exciting that this is how the government's policy can be pre-discounted. Since we have only 34 mandates, we are not doing anything alone. But my question to the SF's premier is now: What characterises an unsympathetic and antisocial tax reform? Is it something about lowering the tax at the top, perhaps lowering it a little for the country's businesses? Or what does SF's premier think Lisbeth Bech Poulsen's expression covers?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601174702	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601174704	I am sure that Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen has been concerned about ensuring that some of the people who have the least money will, of course, get more money between their hands. These are some of the people we all meet every day: it may be the cashier, it may be the window cleaner, it may be others. These are some of the people who work hardest and who get the least money in their hands. We're preoccupied with securing them a little more. However, we do not believe that the time is for tax cuts, not at all when we save as much on welfare as we do. So that's what we're preoccupied with.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601174733	Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601174736	Thus, I can put a dent in the definition of unsympathetic, and now I have forgotten what the rest was when it came to tax reform. At least it wasn't very nice. When I mention it, it is simply because the SF, when they had the heavy power of the government, voted in favour of those very reforms. However, earlier in the debate I asked the Alternative's rapporteur whether the political air balloon could be landed in a discussion about reducing the tax on labour, including on the lowest incomes. We were not opposed to that. Now I understand from Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr that you are also interested in that. We are so happy to work with the SF on this in the future. The invitation is hereby issued.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601174810	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601174812	I have to be a little bit serious. I actually expect the invitation to come from sir. Karsten Lauritzen or perhaps from the Prime Minister when we discuss tax reform. But I am glad that the Left as such invites the SF to tax negotiations. I think it will be difficult to land something which has both solidarity funding, which does not harm welfare and which at the same time facilitates taxation at the bottom, without the inhabitants of small tips in the form of top tax relief. I can certainly imagine that the government will have to deliver, since the Liberal Alliance has said that the government will fall if no top tax relief is granted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601174849	Sir. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601174852	Thank you. Now I've been listening to the fact that welfare is, if not threatened, I don't quite remember what it was, sir. However, Søren Pape Poulsen received a reply which reminded him that it was more or less in liquidation. The answer to Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt before was that public welfare was spared. Then I just want to ask whether Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr can inform the Danish Parliament of something quite factual. If you look at the municipal financial framework this year, i.e. in 2016, with a V-led government with responsibility, has more money come out to the municipalities in their service framework, or has less money come out to the municipalities in their service framework?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601174928	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601174929	More.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601174936	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601174938	Thank you for your answer. How can we say that we are saving in the municipal service when, at the same time, we clearly recognise that before the total economic framework of the municipalities could be extended by half a billion kroner, as is the case, a government headed by the S-led government was in power last year? Half a billion kroner more has been added to run municipalities for, so how can SF's optics translate it into a saving?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601175008	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601175009	It is thought-provoking that the Left Government can adorn itself so much with borrowed feathers. Because we know that the reason why the Danish economy is feeling a little bit better now than it was in 2011, among other things. is that we had a Social Democratic government with the Radical Left and the SF. The Danish economy had to be cleaned up after the money had been sold away, and the economic crisis did not make things any better. So after we have cleaned up, it is true that the Danish economy is feeling a little better, we can send out a little more money to the municipalities, fair enough. The point is that in 2017 and 2018 the priority contribution doesn't seem to be going out to the municipalities, and then it should be the children, it will be the older ones, and it will be the primary school that will last for that, and I just want you to be honest about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601175055	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Susanne Eilersen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601175057	Thank you. I can then hope that the rapporteur can tell the party that she would like to lead the next government that there is no minus growth in the municipalities. Even if you say it often, it doesn't make it factually right anymore. But what I want to ask the rapporteur is a deepening of what my President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, has to say. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, earlier asked the rapporteur, namely the restrictions on foreigners, and that is a very simple question: will Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr roll back the restrictions on foreigners imposed by this government if Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr is in a government after the next elections?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601175139	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601175141	As Mrs Susanne Eilersen may be aware, the SF has participated in this radicalisation agreement and we will vote in favour of it in the Folketing. That is why it would be absurd to roll it back. When it comes to some of the other things, I have to look at them in concrete terms. There have been elements that we have supported and voted in favour of in the Parliamentary Chamber. We do not want to roll them back. However, we were opposed to the change in the family reunification rules for the three years we opposed the jewelry law, and we opposed the halving of the integration benefit. It's SF's policy. We will then work for this, because we want integration to succeed in the municipalities. But we are not a party and now I have heard Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl say the same several times, also in the Parliamentary Hall that makes ultimate demands. My ultimate demand is that the Prime Minister no longer be Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601175225	Mrs. Susanne Eilersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601175227	Thank you. This means that all the restrictions on foreigners, which the SF has voted against, the chairman of the SF will hear her say so here from the Speaker's Chair of the Danish Parliament, roll back after an election. Is that how I understand what the President is saying, or is she going to give a vague answer that it is under debate? Even if you have voted against the restrictions on foreigners under this government, you will not promise the electorate that, after election, you will roll back these restrictions. Is that what I hear the President say?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601175310	Here you go. And there has to be a little more quiet in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601175319	If the SF gets 90 seats after the next elections, we will conduct our policy fully. I doubt it. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601175322	We need a little more quiet, even in the sidelines, so that we can hear what is being said from the platform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601175327	Although, of course, I hope that the SF will be given 90 seats after the next parliamentary elections, I do not think it is very likely. What I am concerned about is that we have a new government in Denmark which is much more united than this one and which ensures a green transition. When it comes to these rules, I have said over and over again that SF has been opposed to them. I made that very clear. There is no doubt about that. Of course, we will be negotiating this, but at the same time there is no doubt that there are things that we have supported, and we want to maintain them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601175356	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601175402	Thank you. It almost sounds like Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr is drawing up the classic fairy tales about the bad guys and the good guys, and it's quite clear how to draw it up. It gives the impression that we are saving on welfare, despite the fact that Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr has now acknowledged that we have actually added extra money to the municipalities this year. Then it is claimed that we will save next year. There, too, we have promised to return the re-prioritisation contribution. So that's not true either. Then it is said that the only reason things are going well now is that some unpleasant decisions were taken when the Socialist People's Party supported the Red Government or was part of the Red Government. However, this is largely due to the decisions that were taken before a red government came. That is why I would just like to ask Pia Olsen Dyhr if she could mention some reforms made under the former Red Government, which made a greater contribution to growth than the withdrawal reform and the unemployment benefit reform, which the former Left Government made before the Red Government came to, and which the SF chose to abolish by the way?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601175507	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601175511	If you have to look at what has created the most jobs in Denmark, then I think you have to look at both growth plan 1 and growth plan 2 as some of those who have been entrepreneurs of it. I also believe that the Left agrees with this, since they have supported both Growth Plan 1 and Growth Plan 2. In addition, the Togfonden DK was an element which would create a great deal of jobs, also the energy settlement with, among other things. the coastal mills with which the Left is at war right now, which will mean that we lose 8,000 jobs in West Jutland. I do not understand that, but it is evident that the Left is giving priority to this. Then I just have to say to the nonsense that I can hear that the Left is working at some polemical club, and that is fair enough, but I also think we should deal with the fact that when we were in government, we took responsibility for cleaning up the Danish economy. And the current government is throwing away the money for tax relief to the richest, to the most expensive cars and to others. the most expensive houses in Denmark, and I think that you should acknowledge this is a priority issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601175603	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601175606	Well, it's different what you put in cleaning up after. That's leaving a gap of 22 billion. kr. in a fund where all the money has been promised away and will not be used to finance it, or is it making responsible reforms that ensure that we can create growth for the future? For it is the case that the withdrawal reform and the unemployment benefit reform in isolation are the ones that give Denmark the most growth. We think it was good to make the two growth plans made under the previous Red Government, but it does not provide the same employment and growth as the unpleasant reforms that we were aiming for did.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601175637	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601175639	After all, we must look at the reforms when they are implemented in reality. If, for example, we are going to do something like this... Looking at the unemployment benefit reform, we can see that it has so far meant that over 60 000 people have fallen out of the benefit system. I know that in the left optics they will get to work, but let us now look at what has happened to those people. Many of them have ended up on cash benefits or on various transitional benefits until one day they end up in the cash benefits system, and if they are fortunate enough to have a spouse, they are without income. That's a little funny to hear. Instead, one should relate to some of the things that actually create jobs. We know investment does. Once we have moved public investment forward, we have helped create jobs. The same applies when we have looked at ambitions such as the Train Foundation DK. Mrs Louise Schack Elholm does not quite correctly tell us what the challenges are with regard to the Togfonden DK, as it is 15 billion. kr. and not 20 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601175725	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup, Danish People's Party, as the last one asks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601175730	I have listened with interest to what Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr has said about immigration policy in particular. The reason for this is that it is an all-dominant theme on which we all have to focus here in the Folketing: what do we do in relation to foreign policy? There are two ways in the Folketing. There's the road that's built on like that. 30 restrictions on foreign policy which have been made since the elections. We in the Danish People's Party would like to see more austerity, but we are then working on it. Then there is another path which the SF, the Enhedslisten, the Alternative and the Radicals stand for, namely a series of relaxations in which the immigration policy that has been implemented since the elections will be withdrawn in whole or in part. What I would like to ask Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr is: what does Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr think of the situation if someone should come and say that there is an alternative to the government and the policy that is now? Is there any alternative when we see that the Socialists are therefore deeply opposed to the SF, the Alternative, the Radicals and the Enhedslisten?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601175841	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601175842	I certainly do not see that the SF and the Socialists are insanely divided about everything. Nor do I see that the Enhedslisten and the Alternative or the Radicals disagree with the Social Democrats when it comes, for example, to this issue. the green transformation in Denmark and the ambitions we must have, that we must have a fairer labour market and that we can look at some of the challenges, such as: The ceiling has created for some of the Danes. Now I know that foreign policy is almost all politics when you talk about the Danish People's Party, but there is much else in the package. It's part of it. With the second part, we are, of course, very aware of the need for compromises, and I am certainly willing to do so. What I am concerned about is ensuring that integration succeeds, that we manage the number and we do so through European solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601175925	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601175927	To that I would say that there is no indication that European solutions are working. It is precisely in the absence of European solutions that the countries have gone their own way, created border controls and, at least, managed the situation more effectively. That's one part of it. That part of it is then what is actually going to happen, and there I think that perhaps Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr is going through a very exciting time, if it is the case that agreement could be reached between the Socialists, who have supported it, I think it is good for many of the tightenings, and on the other hand the SF, which will roll back the introductory performance tightening, will roll back the family reunification tightening and will roll back a number of the other tightenings. Can SF and Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr not well see that it is sticking in many different directions?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601180019	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601180020	I note that we have just been in negotiations with the Danish People's Party and the Social Democrats and have agreed on among others. an anti-radicalisation package in which we have tightened the supervision of our free schools, where we have looked at our public education law, where we have been concerned about whether there are some religious preachers who are helping to maintain, among other things. women in a violent marriage, and in which, across political divides, we have begun to take this integration seriously. The SF will continue to do so. I think that all parties here in the Danish Parliament are concerned about solving the challenge, among others. social control. That is why parties took part in a meeting at Inger Løjberg. And there should be no doubt that this is a very important task for the SF, and I think we can do that together with the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601180102	Inger Løjberg is to be referred to as the Minister of Integration. It's over for this round. We'll postpone the sitting until 2:00 a.m. 7:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601190004	The sitting is resumed. We shall continue in the rapporteur's line, and the next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Søren Pape Poulsen as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601190018	Thank you. After all, it is a challenge to be the first speaker right after the food, where it is probably heavy and people may be tempted to sit around a bit. I'll try to keep the hall awake. We look back on an eventful parliamentary year, a year of many negotiations, a year of many agreements. I myself measure our progress on whether we have come closer to a society of security and opportunity. And I think we are in a number of areas. Before the election, Danish families experienced that living in their own homes became more expensive and expensive. The debt increased, SKAT's property assessments were skewed and too high, and neighbors in one's houses got different bills. It goes without saying that it was too bad. Citizens in Denmark should not be reduced to spectators in their own lives, where the state creates unpredictable and rising bills. The landowners should not be the prey of the state when tax father plays Nak & Eat. The reality was that at 75 years of age Kirsten, who had answered each his, was hit by a huge increase. She paid 38,000 kroner each year. I'm sorry, but the bill was over years to grow to 108,000 kroner. The property value tax comes on top of that. 108,000 kr. At the annual expense of a single pensioner, it is not something that provides security for one's home. As the retired Kjeld from Brønshøj said: I only have my pension, and we cannot stay in the house if the skies continue. But in general the political Denmark failed. One could not undo Kjeld to live at 97 m2 with his wife. You'd think there was an agreement to stop rising taxes. Yes, of course, many would say, but unfortunately no. It is very significant how we treat homeowners in this country. We look at it differently. We did the same at the time, and that is why we said that the increase in the root cause must be stopped. In the election campaign, we said the same thing, and after the election, we said the same thing. When we opened the parliamentary year we are about to end, I said here from this platform: "We have reached the point where an ordinary family in Rødovre pays 26,000 kroner a year for their parcel house. And there was the prospect that that bill would rise. Fortunately, it has succeeded in stopping the rising ground. With the 2016 Finance Act, we managed to stop at 750 million. kr. in tax increases to houseowners • barely 21⁄2 billion. kr. over the next four years. And it was even a nominal freeze. Thus, the root cause did not increase in line with price developments or anything else. Families got total security about the guilt. The bill doesn't increase with as much as a penny. So here I really must praise the government and the other parties that supported the agreement. We are very pleased about this, and I think it is a pity that the debate on this always ends in the debate, especially when you talk to the left, that it is the richest one has secured in one way or another. No, we've just ensured that ordinary people can be allowed to live in the house they've bought and paid for. But there is no need to rejoice yet, and there is no need to let the champagne corks jump. We are not in the end, because the matter is not the end of freezing the ground. That is why we have written a final proposal that removes the land and property tax altogether, because you should not pay tax from living in your own home. It's a place of comfort that you can understand. Just as there is a need for security about the dwelling, so there is a need for security on the street. That is why we are very pleased that over 1,100 new students will be admitted to the police school for the next two years, compared with 900 in the previous four years. This is a result which we are very pleased to see negotiated with the government and the other parties. There must be law and order, and the police must have the necessary resources. We're not there yet, but we're on the right track. I see the police as a key player when we have to shed light on Shadow Denmark, where police and fire trucks are overwhelmed with stones and small traders being blackmailed for money. We should set up mobile local police stations in the heavily burdened residential areas. Denmark must be one Denmark, and law and order must apply to the farthest corner of the smallest ghetto. We know that some young people are looking for communities in the wrong places. It can be in extreme, religious environments, but it can also be in a gang. But there are plenty of opportunities for healthy communities in Denmark, and there are plenty of educational opportunities. Therefore, we can say to Shadow Denmark's hard-boiled youth: we hope you do not just think of something sensible, we demand it, and we destroy the criminal life you thought you were going to have. At the same time, we have agreed with the government to take up a fight with hate preachers. They are cowards who dare not travel in holy war and therefore plague the good hearts of young people so that they can be used as puppets. I don't see why we should let such destructive forces into our country. I think we are heading in the right direction, even when it comes to growth and opportunities. The prerequisite for us to talk about a good welfare society is that we have a good and competitive business. That should be number one. 1 in the textbook. That is not always the feeling you get when you listen to the debate in this Chamber. Therefore, we have helped to abolish more taxes and focus on business conditions and to ensure better conditions for generational change in companies, because it is not reasonable for a daughter to be hit by a special tax and perhaps fire employees because she chooses to run her parents' business further. Then we also hope that a new reform of high school will soon take place. It is important to focus on strengthening professionalism, and we think that there is a great deal of good on the table where negotiations are currently taking place. But it is beyond my comprehension that one cannot agree on a grade claim of 4, when even today it is considered to be something one should be able to pay for being ready for high school education. There's gonna be a phase-in of this reform, and that's how young people in primary school can do what they can to improve their skills if it's in high school they're supposed to be. And I don't want everyone there. I am glad to hear that the director of vocational schools is out to say that it is reasonable enough that it is 2 which are admission requirements for them, and that it should be higher in high schools, because a academic education obviously requires higher grades in the academic subjects. That should be self-evident to everyone. I am surprised that in this Parliament too there are so many parties that do not want to make demands on young people, but have the usual alluring sweet soup path, where we say that it will be all right and that we must accommodate them all without making any demands. Then I cannot leave the platform without having thanked the whole House broadly for the cooperation on our veterans. Over a year ago, my party and I proposed that we take better care of the returned soldiers who had scars on their souls. They had become throwing balls in a system and the people felt that they were seen as expenses instead of the people they are, people who have been ready to give their lives for Denmark. We found a solution with new legislation and I can say that, for us, this is not the last time we will be talking about veterans. Speaking of our veterans, I would also like to say a few words about our defence, Denmark's defence. Our assurance of living in freedom and democracy is, of course, membership of NATO. We have sworn an oath to stand cargo and burst with the other NATO countries, and this requires us to strengthen our defence. It requires the purchase of new fighter planes, also with funding that does not starve two other guards. Denmark, like the rest of Europe and the world, is in the midst of a refugee and migrant crisis that we have experienced in the parliamentary year that is just about to end. This is not an easy task. We all want the external border of the European Union to work. That's crucial. I am pleased that we have been able to make agreements that tighten up our foreign policy. Living conditions mean something to the influx, whether we like to talk about it or not. I would also like to thank the government for the fact that together we have tightened the language requirement for those people who want Danish citizenship. You must of course learn Danish if you want to be a Danish citizen. We are approaching a society with more security and more opportunities and respect for hard work, but there is still some way to go. That's about what I could do in my 10 minutes. I could also have enjoyed a good natural park, more severe penalties, the sun shining and the royal house coming on Facebook, but I stop here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601190957	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments, and we will start with Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil, the Social Democrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601191002	Now that we are at all sweet-soup-la-la-la I do not know whether I am quoting the rapporteur correctly I shall hear where Conservatives are asking themselves in the question referred to by the Conservative President, and now I am quoting the President from 17 September 2014, c. One month after he became president of his party: we will ensure that you pay no more than half of the last earned crown. The end goal for us is the complete removal of the top tax. Is there so little sweet soup-la-la in it, or what exactly are Conservatives' final targets for the negotiations that will come in the autumn?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601191041	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601191042	Our ultimate goal is that we do not have top taxes in Denmark. When that happens depends on negotiations. The questioner can be sure that I'll work hard to make sure we don't have top taxes. It is, after all, a tax that is just an expression of pure envy and which hampers growth in Denmark. But we will work for it. In fact, we will also work for it is included in our vision paper • a flat tax, in the long term 33 per cent, because we want a completely different society. Can I deliver it tomorrow? Can I deliver it in the fall? It's not safe, but I'm going to do everything I can for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601191113	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601191114	But now the difference between sweet soup-la-la and then taking real influence is what you add votes to. So let me be a little more precise: will the Conservative People's Party vote for a tax agreement that does not contain top tax concessions in the autumn?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601191129	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601191131	We do not go to negotiations with ultimate demands. I don't think anything good will come of that. But we're going to fight to get the top treasure down. Having said that, there should be no doubt that any tax relief is a good work for Danish citizens. Anyway, we're not gonna say that if the top tax doesn't come down, we're gonna knock over the government and something like that. We're not gonna say that. But we will fight for it and we will run some tough negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601191201	The next question is Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601191203	Thank you. The Conservative People's Party has helped to create an agricultural package which risks increasing the pollution of our drinking water, of our coastal waters and of our nitrogen-sensitive nature, and that is why we have now received a pilot letter from the Commission on 8 pages with a quite • and now I use Mette Abildgaard's words • brittle criticism of this agricultural package, where it is being told that this could be contrary to three directives: the Water Framework Directive, the Nitrates Directive and the Habitats Directive. If the Commission considers this to be contrary to the nitrates directive, we risk losing our cattle exemption. It will be a disaster for Danish agriculture. My question to the rapporteur is: how can we expect to make enough compensation to convince the Commission not to increase the pollution of drinking water?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601191257	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601191258	That's a very good question. I assume, then, that when such a letter comes in, the government will, of course, make a suggestion as to what we are responding to it. Now we have made an agricultural package, and we have then fought for some initiatives in a natural package, so that we can show to the Commission that we are going for zero a year early environmentally, and then we can hope that this will help. But what the government wants to play out with, I don't know. I don't have the technical sense to tell you what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601191324	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601191325	That's what makes this so desperate, that you have no idea what you're doing here. The cattle exemption must be renegotiated this summer, and this whole agricultural package risks hitting the blue block and agriculture in the neck like a boomerang. I would like to ask the rapporteur to give a guarantee that the Conservative People's Party will ensure that we do not lose the cattle exemption, that this agricultural package does not have the disastrous consequences for agriculture, both in relation to the cattle exemption and to the rural programme and the fines that we risk getting if it is considered that pollution is increased as a result of the package.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601191403	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601191404	I feel that we have made an agricultural package, and it is true that it gives a slump for the first three years in excess. We have always said that, for us, it has not been an environmental package but a business package. Then there will be a number of measures on top of that, trying to reduce nitrogen emissions. It would be crazy of me to stand here and give a certain guarantee of where we end up. I simply have to wait first and foremost for what the government is playing out with, and then we will do what we can to ensure that we do not suddenly lose rural funds from the European Union, because that would be disastrous.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601191439	The next question is Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601191441	Thank you and thank the rapporteur for the speech. We have often and often praised the Conservatives because there is a green voice in an otherwise black block. One thing I would like to ask a little about is that one thing is nature and how we ensure a clean environment, but another thing is that, in relation to the green transition, we will of course strengthen the green economy, that is to say that we will really boost green entrepreneurs and the green economy. So I would really like to hear a little about the ideas of the Conservatives on the green transition for business, what we can do here and what we are interested in helping to strengthen green entrepreneurship and green business.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601191526	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601191527	That is both a good and a big question, I would like to say. In fact, when we discuss this, I think that there is a great deal of development and innovation going on in the whole of the green area. I think we have a string of companies in Denmark that actually constantly evolve and come up with new technologies. We must, of course, help to support this. You can do that in a number of ways. This can be done through legislation, it can be done through certain entrepreneurship programmes. We have a land to take care of. The whole soul of conservatism, if I may put it that way, is of course about the generation contract. It is about the fact that there have been some before us, that we are here now, that some are coming for us and that we must leave a land in good condition for them. And, of course, it is on the basis of that that we are acting. But, of course, we also need to think about how it all works together, including financially.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601191618	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601191620	Good to hear. That was also what I expected, but sometimes one has to ask one extra time to get the assurance of one's expectations. What I really think could be interesting now that we know that a number of debates are going to take place this autumn on various packages on entrepreneurship, etc. is to start thinking about how we can look at green entrepreneurship. For we saw, unfortunately, that the Finance Act has also abandoned many of the programmes that have actually helped to support precisely the green entrepreneurs. We know that jobs come from small businesses, and we know that the good ideas also come from small businesses, so it is an invitation for us to put pressure on this autumn to strengthen green entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601191706	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601191707	Well, I'd like to play a positive part in that. So let's see how we can strengthen it. I think we only have a common interest in that in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601191717	The next question is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601191718	The Prime Minister began his speech with, among other things: Scheduled law negotiations. After all, the government has a desire for more construction in coastal areas, so we can actually see hotels right on the beach line in the future. Here the Conservatives play a very interesting role, since the Social Democrats have reported so clearly that they are not interested in concluding an agreement on the law of plans. Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the political rapporteur of the Conservatives, writes and I quote: 'Plant law' this week? Oh, Løkke, we agree not to rush it through. That's why I'd like to ask Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen: Does this mean that the Prime Minister will not get an agreement on the law of plans before this week is over?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601191814	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601191815	That certainly depends on what will be in the texts we are about to discuss. We can easily close an agreement quickly if you are accommodating. But it's a lot to have to do in two days. I cannot know if there is a text in front of us in the near future that largely meets what we want. Then you can do it quickly. Otherwise, we have to think carefully. It is deeply complicated legislation that lies in the law of plans and, to put it mildly, the law of plans needs to be changed. At the same time, and I can say this to the questioner, we have a great interest in ensuring that we take good care of our coasts.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601191851	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601191853	Hundreds of thousands of Danes have signed that we should take good care of our coasts, that we should take care of something unique Danish, namely that you can walk along the coastline of Denmark. I think it would disappoint many Danes if the Conservatives, who say that they are the green flagship in the bourgeois block, and there may not be so much to be the green flagship, do not deliver it that you can continue walking along the coasts. I would therefore like to ask Mr Seligman. Søren Pape Poulsen, whether the Conservatives will guarantee that one day when you may already be in this week, I understand that you will be making a plan law agreement, it will also ensure that you can continue to walk along the Danish coasts and that we will not see large hotel buildings along the Danish coasts.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601191940	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601191941	One might say that one of the advantages of being a small party is that you do not have as many voters as you can disappoint. Nor is it our idea to disappoint the citizens at all. However, we have an interest in ensuring that the gift we have received from the generations before us also remains. And then we have to figure out what it's like to allow something. It makes sense for a kayak club, for example. may have a place for his things. There we have to find a balance between what we allow on the coasts and what we do not allow. And we are in a negotiating room to talk about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601192016	The next question is Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601192020	Thank you. Thank you to the Conservative President and thank you for at least most of the time very good cooperation over the past year. I should just like to ask you about some of the discussions we will have later this year. So, what's most important for the Conservative People's Party is the relief in the housing tax, or is it relief for those who have the low labour income?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601192049	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601192050	The most important thing for us, that is to say, the ultimate objective, is to abolish taxes on housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601192100	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601192101	It was an answer that was so clear that I must almost have misunderstood it. This is simply more important than facilitating the tax on work for the lowest income from work. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601192111	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601192112	I think the questioner is aware that we would very much like to do both, but now I am suffering from such a disease that makes me want to try to answer the question directly, and of course this is something that needs to be taken care of. But it's important to us. Basically, we could help to create a whole new scheme for housing in Denmark and have the housing tax abolished because of the consequences. We are faced with a new assessment system, and I think that most people would like to get rid of it, that too much has to be done about it. It's gonna be rough, it's gonna be hard. Why don't we just say it? And at the same time we have some people who may end up going from house to home because of housing taxes, and we think that is quite wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601192150	Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601192153	Well, I would like to follow up on an issue which I think is quite relevant, because in the rapporteur's speech Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, that everyone should be interested in growth; that everyone must understand that the crucial thing for us to have anything to do with welfare at all and that we have something to stand up for in the morning and go to work for is that there is private growth and jobs. How, then, can you answer what you do to the question that Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen is presenting the choice of having one chance to reduce taxes? If you answer, as Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen does, it is said indirectly, that there is something more important than private growth and job creation, namely to continue to give tax relief to homeowners. And there I just have to say, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen probably needs to find out what the Conservative People's Party is giving priority to. Is it good conditions for growth for companies, for example? lower taxes on work, or are they gifts to the homeowners?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601192247	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601192248	It is interesting that it should be called a gift that people can be allowed to live in their own house without being thrown out of it. It is interesting that it should be called a gift that pensioners should not be pulled out of their houses because they cannot afford to live there. We are a party that protects the family and the individual and protects the security of the property owners. There is no doubt about that. Now a Finance Act is rarely made up of one element, and I am quite sure that we will both talk growth and tax and welfare and all the other things of the world in the autumn, so I wonder if there will be room for strengthening our companies at the same time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601192324	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601192325	Yes, but it is just fascinating that a party that has traditionally looked up to the needs and interests of business so clearly chooses a priority that any economist who is not to be chosen and therefore is not afraid to tell the truth about housing taxes means that there is no community use. We have presented a model that takes full account of the problem of pensioners seeing property tax rising more than pensions. This can easily be resolved without continuing a tax freeze or freezing the ground debt. It's easy to solve. But what is the tickling point here is what we see happening when you come up with such demands. It is that the government disarms billions of dollars on tax incentives, but bypasses in a large bow what everyone considers to be the biggest problem: the high tax on labour. And I just fear that the scenario repeats itself when you do not have parties behind you that have a sufficient look at what creates growth in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601192420	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601192421	I don't think sir. Morten Østergaard needs to be concerned that we will not work hard to ease the tax at work. After all, there are four of us, perhaps more parties, who will have a talk with each other in the autumn. And as I said before, I am quite sure that a financial agreement contains many, many more elements than one thing. So I'm not so nervous. I am absolutely sure that there will be an opportunity to strengthen our business community in Denmark. I think a bourgeois government will always do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601192446	Then the next question is Mrs Christine Antorini, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601192450	Thank you. Right here next to me is our good colleague, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, whom many of us love. But sometimes I also think that the Conservatives must think that the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur is a pain in the ass, for example. When Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll said a year ago, and I better find it, because I should be quite specific here that the Conservatives played quiet games for 10 years without affecting the politics of the bourgeois government. That is why the Liberal Alliance seems to have to take over that role. Honestly, I think so, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen must have a chance to answer. It is now that the Conservatives have an opportunity to say: we are going for the top tax concessions, and we are going for much more architectial policy. It is an open question: Where is it that the Conservatives want to show that they really make a difference with the Liberal Alliance?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601192549	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601192550	If my first task was to think about how I could make a difference to the Liberal Alliance, I would think I was wasting my time. I see the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party as two parties, which should take each other's hands and make a growth alliance in Denmark, because far along the way we want the same with economic policy. But I am not an archipelagoist, so, as the author says, I have no interest fully in following Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll in everything, because I'm conservative. And I forgive sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, if he's a little hard on us; you can be between friends.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601192626	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601192627	Now I listened very carefully to the question that was raised earlier, where Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen was given the opportunity to say that the Conservatives are actually seeking top tax relief in the tax negotiations that are coming. But maybe it was just a lion that started jumping up and then fell a little and became a more gentle lamb. Because it didn't turn out to be anything but that you couldn't really promise. On the other hand, in the 2034 plan, there will be a lot of praise for the Conservatives, because it is something other than a 2025 plan that really swung with both flat tax of 33% and that corporation tax must be reduced to zero. And then you want to remove 300,000 public employees. Whether it is conservative or liberal, it has to be said that there really is something that the Conservatives are going for. So I would like to give the Conservatives a second chance: where is it that the Conservatives actually want to make a difference in contrast to the Liberal Alliance?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601192719	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601192720	I am not going to measure the Conservative People's Party against any other party. I can tell you what we and it is true that we have made a Vision 2034, which is a vision paper, which has neither been calculated nor has any concrete action taken. It is more like saying where we want to go, what we want to look for in many years and how we can get there. Surely there should be no doubt that we believe that the top tax should be abolished. That would be the best thing for Denmark. Then we have this game in this thing where we say: can you guarantee that...? No, I can't guarantee that the top tax will be removed. How can you guarantee that? We go into a negotiating room and then we will fight hard for that to happen, and then I will deal with the fact that in the real world we have to make agreements and negotiate things.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601192806	The next question is Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601192809	Thank you very much. After all, Conservatives' defence rapporteur has repeatedly stressed that the important thing about this combat aircraft purchase is that you want to be able to defend Denmark's borders. And at the same time, Conservatives have also reported that the government's financial calculations on this combat aircraft purchase are not connected at all. The rapporteur also mentioned this point a little. My question is as follows: how can the Conservatives help to buy new fighter aircraft on a completely unsolved basis, which, on the one hand, may mean that in future it will cost extremely much on our common welfare or other parts of society, if we are to add more money to the military, or, on the other hand, it may mean that the other defences will be completely played out if we do not add more resources. I would like to hear the rapporteur's position on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601192905	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601192906	I think I will start by saying something that I think the questioner very much disagrees with me on. A defence is part of the core welfare of a country, that is to say to have a defence and to have a strong defence, just as it is to have a strong police force and so on. However, about the aircraft themselves and about the purchase of fighter aircraft, I would just like to say that there are negotiations right now, and nobody has said on what basis and how it should be. The government has played out, and it must do so. We have dealt critically with the models that lie there and then we go into a negotiating room. This may take some time, but then it's good that we're close to negotiating a new defence settlement soon. Then it may be possible to find the melody there.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601192947	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601192947-2	Well, it is quite true that we in the Enhedslisten will not buy new fighter planes and that I do not think it should affect our well-being at all. However, I would just like to say that I think Conservatives have been extremely honest in this discussion when it has been pointed out that the economic basis for this combat aircraft purchase does not stand at all and when Conservatives have quite clearly said that they want to increase the defence budget and add some more money. But it is nothing, one can say that has been clarified yet, that is to say whether it is going to happen, and it has been shot to the corner. So I just want to hear the rapporteur: does the rapporteur really believe that this is a responsible way of carrying out such a billion-dollar purchase when you do not know whether that money will be taken from the welfare or within the defence budget in the coming years?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601193037	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601193038	But we know that at the moment we make a final agreement. There hasn't been an agreement yet, and then you can't sit and say that we don't know. That's what we're gonna know. Once upon a time, when we've made an agreement on this, we'll be able to see what we're going to buy, how many, what they cost, and what that will mean. And then you want to see if you can make a deal about it or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601193052	Then it's mr. Troels Ravn, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601193054	Thank you. The subject of my question is also the top tax, which obviously takes up a lot with the Conservatives. And I also want to involve the Liberal Alliance, which has gone so far as to threaten the government's survival if it does not provide relief in the top tax. However, the rapporteur, Søren Pape Poulsen, has been somewhat more cautious in his statements, and would the rapporteur therefore agree with me that it is an expression that the Liberal Alliance, in the end, is willing to go further to ensure relief in the top tax, and that they are therefore the most credible party when it comes to delivering this. Or what does the rapporteur say about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601193142	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601193143	For me, the most important thing is that we do everything we can to deliver on top tax. Every party must say what they think is right, and I should not interfere with what other parties say. I can tell you why I am not going to say that if we do not remove the top tax, we will overthrow the government, and that is because I do not want Mrs Mette Frederiksen as Prime Minister with the Enhedslisten in the backseat. I do not want to live in a society with the political results that will come from it. This is an honest political disagreement, which is why we have said quite plainly: we will not overturn a government if it does not abolish the top tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601193222	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601193223	Okay, it's fair enough that it's about delivering that it's about being trustworthy. But then I have to ask whether the top tax concessions are really so important for the Conservative People's Party that the party will go as far for top tax concessions as the Liberal Alliance will when we come to the negotiations in the autumn. It's so simple, yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601193245	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601193246	I don't know how simple it is. But if what the questioner thinks is that the difference between the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives is whether or not we want to overthrow the government, then we want something different. However, I would like to say again that I find it a little strange that I should always stand and have my policy measured against that of other parties. I am absolutely certain that the Liberal Alliance is doing what they think is right. We do what we think is right and the Socialists do what they think is right. And I guess we all do that, based on what we think is a proper way of conducting politics. And I guess that's fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601193315	The next question is Mrs Anne Paulin, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601193317	Thank you. In connection with the Conservative People's Party's 100th birthday here earlier this year, the party launched a so-called "Vision 2034". This vision shows that the Conservative People's Party will have a flat income tax of 33 per cent. in 2034. Is it to be understood that one is so keen to have income tax reduced that one will demand top tax relief in the tax negotiations that will be in the autumn, or is it more of a conservative daydreaming?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601193352	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601193353	I stand here and get a feeling that there are some prefabricated questions that are being asked, no matter what I answer from here, and that is fair enough. You have to ask about what you want in this hall. I'm glad that our Vision 2034 is starting to create some interest in some people. That is something about what we want in the future. And yes, it's gonna be hard to get there and so on. I can reassure the questioner that there is nothing I would rather do in the area of personal tax than remove the top tax. I think that would be fantastic. If we can get through with it, then the negotiations will have to show. But having a top tax is just symbolism.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601193433	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601193434	We are very concerned about the Conservatives' vision of 2034, which is why you are also surprised when you hear that it is obviously not something you have calculated at all. It's just something you think could be a little exciting to look at in the future. So are you going to ask for top tax concessions for the specific negotiations that will take place in the autumn, or is that not something that you are going to go to the negotiating table and demand?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601193457	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601193458	Now it is the case that you can make an economic plan as a party. We have made an economic 2020 plan and put forward the calculations. Others have made a 2025 plan. Then we have said that although we are an old party, we will allow ourselves to have some visions: some visions for society; one direction; something we are looking for. There are other parties in here who are also allowed to do so. I think it would be liberating if all of us, old parties, dared to think a little hard and say in what direction we would like with society, without precisely figuring it out in the slightest detail. However, I can guarantee that we are in favour of the abolition of top tax and that we will fight for it when we have to make a financial law.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601193536	The next question is Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601193540	Thank you, President. I would like to ask a few questions about the Conservatives' proposal to replace the PSO tax. Because the Conservatives were out to say that they didn't want to pass that bill on. Companies today pay about 4 billion. kr. to contribute to the energy supply of the future, and then households pay the rest. Now the government wants to abolish this tax for companies and place it over in households, on top of ordinary people's tax payments. The Conservatives were very opposed to this, and I can see some sense in that. The problem was then the proposal that came from the Conservatives. Because what was proposed was actually raising the tax. Indeed, it was proposed to abolish the green base deduction, which is also a tax. What is special about that tax is that it targets those who have the very least. I've been trying to figure it out, and it's just such a quick estimate: a single recipient with two children will lose $1,670. a year and a pensioner's couple on the lowest allowance around DKr 2,400. a year. Is it really reasonable that the pensioners or early retirement couples should pay for companies not being able to contribute to ensuring that we also have electricity in the outlets for the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601193700	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601193701	Yes, I am an evil right-wing person who thinks it is good that we are doing the greatest business tax relief for many, many years, because it is good for our society and our businesses. Then why are we proposing to abolish the green cheque deduction? And why was it introduced at the time? It was to compensate for rising energy taxes. It was also to compensate for the sugar levy and the fat tax, but these taxes have now been abolished again. So now we obviously have to give people a deduction for costs they no longer have, and we just don't think that's fair. It is because we would like to have a society where we do not just go and give subsidies to each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601193739	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601193741	That is simply not correct. There are still a number of charges that this check compensates for. There's some small corners of it I think it's 280 kr. I would also like to point out that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances has not been accepted. But regardless of what you say, respect for the fact that you want a corporation tax credit, isn't it just a little rough to rob the people's pensionists? It is in fact some of the people in our society who have the least to do. Could we not find a fairer and fairer financing model than hunting right there?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601193824	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601193825	Now I think that pensioners cover a very broad group. We must be careful not to turn them all into a very weak group. Then I think that more of us can say that this is a very, very wrong picture. We basically believe that we should move towards fewer deductions, fewer subsidies in this country. And that is why we are proposing the funding that we are doing, plus taking a little of the room for manoeuvre in the economy. That is our proposal, and one might think it is antisocial or wrong, but at least we have put forward a proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601193857	The next question is Mr. Magnus Heunicke, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601193901	Thank you. I would like to return to a subject which the rapporteur touched on a great deal in his own speech, namely the Danish defence, and he has also had some questions about it, among others. the question of the purchase of fighter aircraft, which is currently being negotiated across the board. I can also see that there is such a bit of a position war going on on the right side between the Conservatives and the Liberal Alliance about who is the most to the right. I think, right here, the Conservative People's Party is probably mostly on the right. Can the rapporteur not tell the Danish Parliament how many fighter planes in the Conservative People's Party believe we should invest in?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601193936	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601193937	Now is the time I wish I could remember the number that Mr. Rasmus Jarlov has said we need. 35) 43! Assuming we question the calculations that have been made, it was 43. After all, we recognise that it is not certain that we will get there right at the outset. When you bought F-16s in your time, you might not buy them all at once either. Well, it could come along the way. I recognise that it is not right now that we get them, but we think we should go there. We think it's really important. Well, as far as we're concerned, we don't think this is a huge expense, of course, it's a huge expense that destroys something in our society. We see it as crucially important to have in our society as part of being part of international missions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601194030	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601194037	I would say that it should not be such a thing to think about a figure, and I do not suspect Conservatives' policy to be about that either. After all, it is a question of buying those that are needed, not too many, but of course not too few. There we have seen that the government has played out with the number 27, which the government believes can fit within the defence budget, and is what is necessary for Denmark to be able to maintain its participation in the actions we are doing today and at the same time, of course, to ensure Denmark's sovereignty. The government has said 27, but how many can Conservatives live with that comes out of those negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601194114	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601194116	It would, of course, be the worst negotiating position in the world if I stood here and said it from Parliament's platform. Well, I guess we'd have played all the cards off. But I just took note of the fact that Mr. Rasmus Jarlov and the Secretary of Defense sat and talked, so maybe it's the way to some really good news about more fighter planes. You don't know that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601194135	The next question is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601194139	I would like to put a question to the rapporteur on one of the points raised in the speech, namely the question of policy, whether it is for the richest, whether it has been taken into account. The AE has just carried out an analysis which shows that the freezing of land, as the rapporteur also mentioned in his speech, has resulted in tax cuts for 755 million. kr., of which the 28 million. kr. is for the citizens of Gentofte. At the same time, an Audi A6 has fallen by DKK 60,000. That is why I would like to know whether the rapporteur and the Conservatives, together with the alternative, will help to ensure greater equality in our society, because the rapporteur did not make much of that point.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601194237	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601194238	It was a broad question, but I can quickly say that I think it is very good that some larger cars have fallen in price. If this means that Danish families can afford to buy larger and safer cars, then we should enjoy it together. And then I feel like we want you to be able to sit in your home, and because you once bought a townhouse at Frederiksberg or in Gentofte, that doesn't mean you're just a rich person who has plenty of money. Now we must not demonise people who live in certain places in Denmark. It's ordinary people who have to go from house to home. And so on with equality: I do not care very much whether we have an equal society where we should have the same. I care that we take care of the weakest. The income difference between people doesn't seem to me to be very interesting.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601194327	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601194329	No. I would say that I myself live in North Zealand, and this analysis shows that it is the citizens of North Zealand who have benefited most financially from the political measures that have been taken. However, my question was more about whether the Conservatives, together with the Alternative, will be involved in working for a more socially sustainable society, a society in which we are just going in and looking at the things that the rapporteur mentioned before.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601194356	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601194357	It is natural that the areas where people are picked in taxes will, of course, get more out of it when you freeze the ground blame. Of course. And to the end, it depends on what to put into it. If I'm going to put it in that we have to take even better care of the most vulnerable in our society, then I'm totally in it, because often it's those who might be forgotten in this, those who have no one to shout for themselves. I'd like to be a part of that. But I do not want to be a part of the term large, large sections of the population who are socially at risk. I think we can quickly agree that there is a particularly vulnerable group in our society; I would like to do something about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601194434	The next question is Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601194438	One would almost think that there was a very large group in this country that is extremely exposed and that it is the property owners. But I would actually like to start by commending both Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen and Conservatives in order to actually make a move in the area of housing tax. Because it's been totally locked up. There's Conservatives coming up with a play. So I think we should be commended for this, even if it was hopelessly unfunded and enormously inequitable. But it was a new break anyway, you could say. However, because the Conservatives are so interested in housing tax, I am also sure that both the party chairman and the rapporteur have read the section that the wise men have written on housing tax in the report that came a few days ago. In this they say that it is really important, when we talk about taxation in this area, to have what is called the principle of horizontal equality, i.e. whatever kind of income you have obtained, then you have to be taxed equally. This is the principle of taxation. What is the rapporteur's position on this? This is specific to their section on housing taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601194551	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601194553	Now the questioner says it is insanely unfunded or what was said. In other words, what we are just proposing is that we remove all taxation in return for introducing a profit tax when selling. Just as we are taxed when we go to work, we actually think it is reasonable to tax the profits of the sale of property if the housing taxes were gone. Then I fully understand what economists and wise men are advising on in this area. For us, it's just a value. For us it is a policy of value that people can live in their own homes; in the home they have bought and paid; that it is not taxes that shall hunt them from house and home. This is value-policy, and that is why we are so steep in the area we are doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601194640	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601194642	Well, I can hear that the rapporteur would also like to make it a political issue, and that is also very exciting. I think we can do that, too. But it was really just for a moment to take the debate in relation to the way we usually have principles about taxation. That is exactly what the Economic Council says here with the principle of horizontal equality. Two people who receive the same income regardless of how it happened, i.e. through a capital income or whatever it is, via their house, must be taxed equally. For the rapporteur probably does not believe me, but they write that homeowners should be subject to a tax on the earnings of their housing investment which corresponds to the tax paid by other forms of financial investment. That is why they also say that you cannot just remove all housing taxes. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601194731	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601194733	Now I could dream of nothing but of course believing what Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen says to me. I do not dispute the professional point of view they have. We just allow ourselves to have a different approach to it and simply disagree with it and say that we have a different desire for society. People can say it's completely crazy, but that's what we mean.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601194755	The next question is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601194800	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. In his speech, the rapporteur referred to the high school reform negotiations and referred, among other things, to the question of the future of the European Union. The character requirement and the fight for it. I would like to ask something else about the high school reform initiative that the government has presented, because it writes that the government wants to modernise the approach to education and mentions four competences: global, innovative, career and digital. In fact, when we were still in the alternative at the high school reform negotiations, I was pleasantly surprised that the Conservatives' rapporteur was very concerned to ensure that the formation still gets a strong place in future high school legislation. At the same time, the government plays out with these four competences, which must somehow be a modernised approach to the concept of education. So I would like to ask the rapporteur: are these four competences Conservatives' understanding of education? Are they in line with such Conservatives' understanding of classical formation? Because I think that conservatism as a political ideology in itself has been mentioned several times by the rapporteur, perhaps in my optics at least, is something else.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601194908	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601194911	Now I am not in the room at the negotiations, so I have not heard every word that has been said, but I would like to confirm that education is important to us. I mean, you don't just have to be educated, you also have to be formed. The whole concept of education is incredibly important, and education is many things, and it is much more than the four subjects that are being touched upon here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601194935	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601194942	But then I have to follow it up and then ask: what, in the words of the rapporteur, will be the purpose of secondary education?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601194956	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601194959	The purpose of the formation is, of course, among other things. to know a good number of writers in literature; it is to have an insight into our entire society and how we act with each other. It is not just professionalism; it is also about what to say, the whole concept of education. I really don't think I can say this more clearly than this classic formation thing. If I say so, aren't we on the same wavelength?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601195031	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen as rapporteur for IA.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601195042	Thank you for the floor. Soon, a year has passed since the parliamentary elections. The first parliamentary year of this period runs out, and this gives us cause for reflection on the year that has passed. From a Greenlandic perspective, there is much that we can look back on, which has been positive. At the time of the formation of the government, the Prime Minister invited the North Atlantic mandates to discuss the part of the government which concerns the Kingdom. Many of Inuit Ataqatigiit's highlights are included and provide a very good basis for the work for Greenland and Greenlanders. It is very positive that the North Atlantic members are consulted and that the inputs we provide are listened to, because we know Greenland best after all. We also know, however, that there are a great many fine words in politics, but that it may be difficult to do so. Together we have a task between Greenland and Denmark in terms of strengthening and developing the Kingdom Community. We have a shared responsibility and a common interest in investing in the development of Greenlandic society, not least in the 32 areas that Denmark continues to deal with on behalf of Greenland. Whether you are talking about strengthening the judiciary, the long-awaited National Defence Office, better conditions for the police, for the municipal officers or for a strengthened defence, it is also about human resources. It is about the education and competence building of the people who are to help make our society safe. How can we ensure that Greenland, on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity, is dealt with in the district court in its vicinity, while at the same time increasing the professional knowledge of the district judges that is so badly needed? We know that it is difficult in practice, and that is why we must also dare to talk about new solutions, so that both subsidiarity and professionalisation go hand in hand in a good way that we can live with in Greenland. Children and young people must grow up in a secure environment and know that we have a secure and competent judicial society. After lengthy work from Inuit Ataqatigiit to highlight the need for a personal data law in Greenland, the law finally falls into place. The lack of data monitoring in Greenland's society is finally ending by the fact that the Data Protection Agency is to carry out annual supervision and publish a report in the future. The entry into force of the Personal Data Act in Greenland takes place 15 years after Denmark, and this is unfortunately not an isolated example of the fact that legislation for Greenland enters into force decades after Denmark has noticed well in areas which Denmark is responsible for. We also saw the same with the Children's Act, which dates back to 1962, which, following repeated calls from Inuit Ataqatigiit, is finally being brought up to date. We need to put an end to the discrimination for the future to ensure that the Danish Government as well as the updating of devices in Greenland when Danish laws are updated or enter into force. Greenlandic society is still developing, but the need for economic growth is still pressing. It is about creating growth for welfare, so that future generations continue to have the right to education and the opportunity for a good childhood and a healthy life. Growth to welfare is also about strengthening and improving the welfare society that we have and ensuring a sustainable future of the welfare society. Growth to welfare is about creating an economy in balance, also towards 2040, so that we ensure that the economy is on a stable basis. Creating a balanced economy requires necessary solutions and reforms, but at least as much new growth. Inuit Ataqatigiit has previously pointed to the need for reforms in the area of housing, taxation and welfare, increased employment promotion, among other things. For young people with high unemployment, as well as increased investment and efforts to raise the level of education in Greenland, all areas that continue to require necessary reforms to this day, which we have not yet seen. From the Inuit Ataqatigiits side, we believe that Greenland should look openly at a large number of the opportunities to create growth instead of staring blindly at uranium extraction as the only solution. IA would like to see new raw material projects developed, but we say no to uranium extraction and exports. Growth in Greenlandic society must be achieved through a growth-enhancing enterprise policy that contributes to the creation of new jobs. Foreign investors must be attracted by the establishment of a common Arctic investment fund, which Inuit Ataqatigiit has advocated. Naalakkersuisut will make proposals for setting up an investment fund this autumn, which Inuit Ataqatigiit looks forward to. The international awareness of the Arctic must help to strengthen and develop the focus on the potential of Greenland. An increased focus on Arctic research is important, which can be disseminated and used for the benefit of the Arctic population. We must adapt to the new reality that is emerging, with massive and visible climate change in the Arctic. Greenland must participate actively in research and in science. An idea is the establishment of an Arctic innovation hub in Greenland, where ideas and research can be developed, a centre that can be a breeding ground for new business initiatives. The case of the service contract at Pituffik, Thule Airbase, is nearing completion. In Inuit Ataqatigiit, we are particularly concerned that a new tender opens up the possibility that it will be an American company that will receive the contract and that its employees will primarily become American citizens, who, according to the defence agreement, will not have to pay income tax in Greenland. This will have massive economic consequences for Greenlandic society, where the total revenue from the base today amounts to 10%. of the tax revenues in Greenland. Inuit Ataqatigiit therefore expects that the tender documentation will at least ensure that employees in Pituffik pay taxes in Greenland and that apprenticeship and student places on the base are maintained. Often when we talk about the Commonwealth, there is talk of cooperation between the Danish government and the Naalaksuisut, but the focus should be on how we can ensure close coordination and involvement of Inatsisartut in the matters relating to Greenland. Unfortunately, during the parliamentary year here we have seen repeated examples that it was originally the intention of the government that the Folketing should deal with matters relating to Greenland before Inatsisartut had had the opportunity to make a statement. It is an injustice which is at odds with the law of self-government, an injustice which cannot be repeated in the coming parliamentary years. I am very pleased that there has been broad support in the Greenland Committee for the criticism that has been made by the Greenland Members of Parliament. All members of the Folketing are members on an equal footing according to the Constitution, and since Denmark still holds 32 key areas on behalf of Greenland, it is obvious that Greenland's members of parliament are invited to the relevant conciliation negotiations, for example. the defence settlement or the criminal justice settlement, which is of great relevance to Greenland. It strengthens both the political process and it makes sense that we, who have the most knowledge of the Arctic and Greenland, also participate and sit at the negotiating table in the issues relating to the Arctic and Greenland. That is why I am also pleased that Greenland's members of parliament are now invited to the budget negotiations. I think it is important to remember that this is an historic moment and it is a positive step in the right direction. Inuit Ataqatigiit is ready to work in a spirit of solidarity, constructive and solution-oriented way to develop Greenland in close cooperation with Denmark. We have clear common goals for our countries and for the community. We look forward to continued good cooperation in the coming parliamentary years. Qujanaq. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601195940	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. The first question is Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601195947	Thank you. Earlier in the parliamentary year we had a question debate on the report submitted by the child speaker for Greenland, who was a disgusting criticism of the social conditions in Greenland. At that time, the Danish People's Party made a proposal for adoption which required the government to address those problems. Unfortunately, that adoption did not find support because it was felt that it was more important to take account of the responsibilities between Greenland and Denmark. Is it really still the rapporteur's view that it is more important to take account of Greenlandic politicians than to take account of those children who, perhaps even as we speak, are subjected to some of the most abominable things that can be imagined? Should we not, in this situation, take account of children in ensuring that the problems are resolved, rather than saying that it is more important that we stick to the division of competences?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601200052	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601200054	Thank you for the question, and thank you for focusing on an area which is very close to me personally. After all, I was Greenland's first child speaker, and I have probably been one of the greatest critics in relation to the conditions that some of the children in Greenland live under. It is about a third of all children in Greenland, about 5,000 children living under difficult conditions, so this is a subject that I am very concerned about personally, and I am also doing a lot of volunteering to help support it. I just think it's important to think that when we have to find solutions in relation to the kids, because they're the most important thing in this, it's all about that those solutions are best found in Greenland. One of the things we also pointed out from Inuit Ataqatigiit is that it is easy to work together to find solutions, but it is very important to understand that it is not a task force with Danish social workers that will be the solution, but it is both the long tough move in Greenland, and it is very much that this is going to be higher on the political agenda in Greenland. So it is Greenland that has a huge responsibility, and I will do what I can to help keep it on the agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601200206	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601200208	I fully agree that, in the long term, it is important to find a solution where Greenland is dealing with these problems, but for the children who are currently in the situation, right now urgently need help, should not consideration for them weigh more heavily than consideration for the good long-term solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601200229	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601200231	If the questioner remembers the debate, it is both here and now that action is needed. We certainly believe this from Inuit Ataqatigiit, and there is also a really hard fight in Inatsisartut in relation to creating better conditions. A few steps have been taken, but that is not enough, and Inuit Ataqatigiit continues to fight in Inatsisartut. I think it is important to say that this is a Greenlandic responsibility and that it is Greenland that can best find the solutions. We believe that you can work together between Greenland and Denmark, but it is really important that it is Greenland that will point out what areas Denmark can help to support.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601200307	The next question is Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601200311	Thank you, and thank you very much for an exciting speech. The other day we had a question in this Chamber about the Kingdom community, and there was a lot of talk about constitutions and the right or freedom to write a constitution. I think that debate stranded a little more than once, and that is why I am a little curious to hear the rapporteur's party's position on a desire to write an independent constitution for Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601200343	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601200344	Thank you for the question. We fight very hard from Inuit Ataqatigiits in connection with the preparatory work on the Constitution, but I also think it is very important to focus on some of the bourgeois things, both from Greenland, among others. in relation to children, in relation to ensuring education, in relation to ensuring that basic human rights are in place, but to a large extent also by Denmark in relation to ensuring that justice is completely optimal and that the laws that we have are fully up-to-date. Because if we're only looking at a Free Association agreement, like that one. has been mentioned by Siumut, but as the alternative also supports, I think it is more about some politicians going to raise something more than it is about ensuring that the whole bourgeois thing is also in place, and that is the reality of what I am personally concerned about.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601200433	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601200435	Thank you. I fully agree that, of course, everyday politics must also be managed, but does the rapporteur not agree that, even if you think long-term and perhaps more visionary, you can focus in two places, and that it is perhaps precisely now that these questions arise both in Greenland and the Faroe Islands that the time has come for us to start taking this seriously and say: we must also have the long light on and look at a future for cooperation between the three nations?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601200518	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601200520	Yes, indeed. I also think that there is a need to be a visionary sometimes, but we must also look at the 32 areas that Denmark is dealing with. Greenland is also a little different from the Faroe Islands. The Faroe Islands have about 18 areas, which are taken care of by Denmark, while we have 32 areas, and the Faroe Islands are in the process of repatriating several areas. So I think we have a huge task at all to ensure that the law of self-government is complied with, but also to ensure that we get some areas taken home. In fact, it is also a step towards greater autonomy for Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601200556	The next question is Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601200600	IA is known for its great and persistent work for vulnerable children and young people in Greenland. Where does Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen see such current challenges as they should be addressed here and now?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601200614	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601200616	There are very many areas where action is needed. This is in relation to sexual abuse, for example. While the figures in Denmark are somewhat lower, it is one third of all girls who experience sexual abuse in their childhood, and that is approx. 10% by the boys. So sexual abuse seems to me to be one of the things you have to deal with. One of the things I would like to see was that the children's house Saaffik was given more priority than it is today. We only have a children's house to service the whole of Greenland, and you know just a little about the geography in Greenland, you know that this is a really big challenge. At the same time, I am also thinking that we should have the very early efforts. We have small communities, and that is why we may need to think about some other solutions, i.e. more outreach work, more early efforts in relation to socially vulnerable children.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601200707	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601200711	In her speech Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen mentioned the Arctic Investment Fund. Could the rapporteur put a few more words on how that investment fund can be used for increased cooperation between Greenland and Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601200724	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601200726	Well, it's kind of inspired by the idea of the Climate Fund. And it is basically about Denmark and Greenland getting together and talking about how you can help to provide some kind of guarantee, so that you can attract foreign investors. There is a proposal to be dealt with in the autumn, and I am very pleased that it will finally get under way. This has already been discussed a year ago in Inatsisartut, where I myself was the rapporteur on this point.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601200753	The next question is Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601200758	Thank you and thank you for the exciting speech from Greenland. I always think it is good that we get the debate a little closer than just saying in the day-to-day terms that it is good that we have a cooperation with Greenland. However, I would like to hear a little more about uranium extraction and, of course, I fully agree with the rapporteur that digging up uranium is problematic. However, the rapporteur's party has also proposed a referendum. What is the mood about this and, if so, should it be a binding referendum? Or how do you want to make it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601200834	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601200836	Thank you for the question. Yes, IA says no to uranium, and we also want the people to be heard. We also believe that, in relation to the uranium agreements concluded between the Government and the Naala Suisut, the involvement of Inatsisartut by the Landsting in Greenland should have been ensured. In relation to a referendum, we have recommended that it be an indicative referendum, but that is more because that is how referendums are normally held. After all, we would like to see a lasting solution and the people involved in this issue. Because you may well find yourself in a situation in the long term where it will be another party, possibly IA, which will have the most seats in Inatsisartut. So it is important to create a stable framework in relation to raw materials policy in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601200924	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601200928	Thank you. Another issue that I think is important is the problem that lies at Thule, and I am thinking of the base, and I am thinking of the service agreement. I understand that the service agreement has been extended while negotiating. What does the rapporteur expect it to do? And what is the sensible solution for Greenland if Denmark is to push for a proper solution? I think we have quite a lot of responsibility. I guess when we've been involved in the mess, we're gonna have to help find the solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601200958	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601201000	Thank you for the question. As I mentioned, this is equivalent to 10%. of tax revenue. I could therefore imagine that, if it was a matter that was discussed here in the Danish Parliament, or if one were to say what to say about transferring it to Danish conditions, it really was something that would get a lot of politicians out of the chair. That is why the Minister for Foreign Affairs has previously called it DONG times 10, and when you know how much DONG has filled in this Chamber, you also think that this is really an issue that is really important for Greenland. One of the things we would like to see was that it will be a Greenlandic-Danish company and that it will not be a shell company that will receive the service contract because it will have massive financial consequences. I believe that there is a sentence in the defence agreement that has not been sufficiently taken into account, which is that no tax should be paid in Greenland if anyone is an American citizen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601201055	The next question is Mrs Karin Gaardsted, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601201059	Thank you. And thank you for a very fine presentation. On the issue of the fact that there are laws that are not being implemented in Greenland in time, at least that is what I understood from the rapporteur was the problem, for example. with the Children's Act and the Personal Data Act: Could the rapporteur imagine that it could be in the Greenland Committee as we have and which I at least consider to be a very active Greenland Committee that could be worked on promoting some of the things that seem to be bothering Greenland?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601201135	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601201137	I certainly think it might be interesting to discuss it in the Greenland Committee, but I also think it is important to say that when we are talking about, for example, The area of family law, then, is a large, complex area which really requires an overview. So I think it certainly requires that we also involve the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Social Affairs in this task. I usually exemplify it by saying that you have typical Danish laws, and you get some rights pulled out, and 10 years later you get them put forward as a royal decree for Greenland. It actually says something about the fact that much of the particular Greenlandic conditions must not be allowed to be curbed, a phrase that I myself am not particularly pleased about, because it is also extremely important, when we talk about children and the rights that children have, that we ensure a good legal system and that we ensure that there are laws that are as up-to-date as they are in the Danish language. And there I think we have a huge task to solve here in the Folketing in relation to the Greenlandic laws.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601201238	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601201240	Of course, I fully agree with that. I just think that the Greenland Committee is a very good forum to have these things discussed here. However, I have another question which concerns the rapporteur's reference to the fact that research would be particularly suitable for industrial development. The business development in Greenland is a hot topic if you can put it that way. Are there any other areas which the rapporteur would like to highlight where industrial development could take place for the benefit of Greenland?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601201307	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601201309	That's one of them. Compared to this Arctic investment fund. I think it could support the small development that we see in relation to tourism, i.e. that there will be more tourists to Greenland. I think that would be an obvious area to look at. The residential area I also think is something that is really interesting to look at. There is a huge shortage of housing, and this is an area for which there really is funding, at least to some extent. So I think it should be a diversified business effort based on the four business pillars that we have in Greenland. It would be quite obvious to look at how to create a more stable economy in Greenland by developing both the raw material area, the tourism area and in relation to fishing and catching and land-based industries.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601201356	I'm gonna have to ask for a little more quieter in the Chamber. It is disturbing for the rapporteur to be interviewed so close to the platform. The next question is Mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601201407	Thank you and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Now we are approaching on June 21, Greenland's National Day, and earlier this year it caused a great deal of surprise when all the Danish state flag poles were to be counted. Now we all know first and foremost that there are 534 state flagpoles, and we also know that the count was due to the Prime Minister's wish, as he also mentioned in his speech, that we in Denmark should fly Greenlandic and Faroese flags from the state flagpoles on the national days of the respective countries. What is the rapporteur's assessment of the Prime Minister's gesture?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601201453	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601201455	Thank you very much. It is Greenland's national day on June 21, and many people look forward to it. I would say that it has received a slightly mixed reception from us. I think it is very good and I also think it shows some respect for the Kingdom Community and for Greenland, but at the same time I think there is a lot of symbolic policy in it. I think it is important that we also go in and look at many of the other areas. If you look at the document that we have been given today, which is the government's achievements in the parliamentary year, then the flag days are at the top of the list. I certainly hope that in the years to come we will see something more concrete, particularly in relation to these laws where there is a huge backlog. So it's kind of a mixed reception from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601201541	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601201543	Thank you. Does the rapporteur possibly know whether there has been a desire in the Greenlandic population or in the Greenlandic authorities or among the Greenlandic members of parliament that such a gesture should be introduced?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601201557	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601201559	As I said, I think it is a very fine gesture, but I have not heard anything, nor have I expressed my wish for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601201609	The next question is Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601201613	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for the presentations and for one, which I like, open and honest way of talking about Greenland's relations and the relationship between Greenland and the rest of the community. I think that's really good to hear. I would like to ask a little more about the Thule case, because I remember that when it kind of blazed up, President Kim Kielsen said that one thing was that there was to be a Danish-Greenland company running Thulebasen, but Kim Kielsen also said that it was not enough in itself, and that there was also to be some kind of rent for him not directly using that word, but that there was to be something extra in addition. Perhaps it was because he had foreseen that in any event there would be a reduction in revenue. So I just need to know if it is still the Greenlandic view that there should also be some kind of rent, I would call it, on top of the Americans' use of Thulebasen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601201714	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601201716	I think it is primarily about ensuring that it is a Greenlandic-Danish company, because there are tax revenues. When Naalaksuisut has indicated that one would like to look at alternative options for revenue from Thulebasen, it is of course because one has been in the situation that it has been extremely unfortunate that we have been able to lose so much revenue. Then you have to look at how to secure other revenue, for 10%. Of course, tax revenue means a lot in Greenlandic society.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601201751	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601201755	Thank you, and thank you for your answer. It was very enlightening. How do you discuss the danger of this, because even if it becomes a Danish-Greenland company, it is not in itself a guarantee that all the tasks at Thulebase will be solved by that company? After all, there is always a danger that companies will outsource tasks and that the work to be done will then be done by detours, you can say, still end up outside Greenland. How is that discussed? Do you have any ideas on how to counteract it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601201830	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601201832	That is precisely why it is so important to ensure very clear rules in the tender documents. You may find yourself in a situation where you will be giving the service contract to a Danish company, which may in fact work for an American company. So, yes, there's a great danger to this. With regard to the process itself, there are two working groups working behind very closed doors. The attitude of the government has unfortunately been that nothing should come out until everything has been agreed. That means we don't really know anything about it. We would like it to be a more transparent process.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601201911	The next question is Mr. Henrik Brodersen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601201915	Thank you. I would like to start by signing for the speech, but also ask the rapporteur. One is that there are massive problems in some of the social areas, but it is also a fact that there are equally, if not even more, massive problems in economic terms. Now the rapporteur says that her party is opposed to mining if it is a matter of uranium, for example. I would like to ask the rapporteur how in the world one can afford to have that attitude if one wants to be an independent nation in the long term and thus cope with the economic edge.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601202001	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601202003	I would like to thank you for the many questions. I think it is really nice that there is so much interest in Greenland. I also think it is important to say that we on the part of the IA are against uranium extraction. We are not against mining because we sometimes get shot in the shoes, and I think that is important to emphasise. I think that there are many other raw materials projects that could be looked at and that have had some difficult conditions in terms of getting started • some smaller environmental projects. We have a ruby mine that struggles to get started and which is a very good example of other options. So there are other options. And I think it is important to remember that these are small communities in Greenland, and therefore smaller raw materials projects also help create jobs locally.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601202056	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601202059	Yes, it is very good, but it is actually the case that if, for example, it was said that it was the mining that was supposed to save Greenland's economy, then there should not only be small mines around Greenland, no, then there should be a whole series of large mines in operation in order to get to a level at all so that the Greenlandic economy could just go to zero. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur: are there any other measures in Greenland that could raise an area? So, one thing is that you want to raise tourism, but if that does not happen to the extent that it can only slightly boost the economy, what is being done about it? Mining and tourism are not enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601202146	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601202148	I really believe that the position expressed by the questioner is the position that we saw a few years ago, namely that the raw material area should save everything in Greenland. I think there has been more realism in Greenlandic politics, and I think that Greenlandic politics is a good thing, that there has been more realism. I think it's about building things up and quietly and just looking at several different actions, both in terms of tourism and in terms of fishing. We see that world market prices for Greenland halibut and shrimp are very good right now and that this has a positive impact on the Greenland economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601202220	Thank you to the IA rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Aleqa Hammond as rapporteur for Siumut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601202235	Thank you. The kingdom community has its own section in the government base, and never have we heard so much from the platform about how important the kingdom community is to Denmark and to the Danish kingdom. However, a police settlement is reached outside Greenland's police circle, and financial law negotiations are convened in the Folketing without the North Atlantic mandates being invited. The Danish Government cannot deliver charts despite a cooperation agreement with Naalaksuisut. Too many times we see a lack of interest in ensuring that it is the whole Kingdom community that is in focus, and all too rarely do we see a political priority for the substantive areas under purely Danish responsibility, despite the fact that today the Danish government is responsible for 32 areas, each of which needs to be given priority. It is now almost a year since the government got into work. Reports have been waited for to make their views on what improvements should be made in the Greenlandic area. We are thinking that the implementation of improvements, invitations to finance negotiations and participation will take place in the future now that the government has spent a year waiting for reports that have now arrived, at least some of them. Hopefully, we will soon see improvements. The kingdom community is very much in focus here in Denmark. This is pleasing, and we are very pleased because this focus has been lacking for a little too many years. The Taksøe report has really helped to identify some of the areas where Denmark has a potential. All the countries of the world as well as the European Union now have an Arctic policy in which they all point to the Arctic as an important focus area, which you want to be a part of and which you would like to see as a partner in the future. The Self-Government Act was passed 7 years ago. With it Greenland was given the right to declare itself self-employed when we want to. The fact that Greenland wants to be an independent nation is seen by the overwhelming support for the parties working for an independent Greenland. If Denmark is to be an Arctic great power in the long term, it is therefore necessary that an independent Greenland still wants to be part of the Kingdom Community. We are aware that an independent Greenland will need allies. That is how it is for all small countries, including Denmark. The Danish economy is an open economy, where you are largely dependent on international trade. The opening up to the world is also taking place in Greenland, and with this opening comes as a natural focus that we must take care of our particular language and culture. With reference to the fact that many research books and research articles are in English, the Radicals suggested that the teaching should also take place in English so that students could become even more internationally oriented than they are today. The Danish People's Party shot down De Radicale's proposal and proposed instead of a tax on English-language advertisements to protect the Danish language. Although it can be seen as counterpoles, the points of both parties are important for a small nation like Denmark. On the one hand you are totally dependent on having to work internationally, and on the other hand the Danish culture and language are worth preserving. We are in the same process in Greenland. Naalakkersuisut has just proposed that the Greenlandic primary school should make English the first foreign language. Such a transition is a longer process, but a necessary process, because we need to open up to the world. This is necessary for our cooperation with mining companies from a number of countries around the world, and it is necessary to develop our tourism. The population is getting ready for a world and collaborators also outside Denmark. That is why this change in priorities. Through a broad settlement in Inatsisartut, we have adopted an ambitious development of our airport structure. In order to develop Greenlandic tourism, it is necessary to make the infrastructure more flexible. If tourists cannot get to the different parts of Greenland, no one will invest in hotels and experience industries in the areas. A large number of foreign investment banks and investment companies want to get involved in the Arctic. That's good news. This is among other things. The Nordic Investment Bank, which has allocated 500 million since New Year's time. Euros, just under 3.8 billion. DKK, for long-term investments in the Arctic regions. This requires, of course, close cooperation between Inatsisartut and Naalaksuisut. It also requires a change of mentality or a change of behaviour to rely more on foreign investors, such as funds, capital funds and pension funds. It is good to find new forms of cooperation and new areas where we can strengthen each other. Recently, during the debate on the Community report, I highlighted, among other things: closer university cooperation on several courses of study, increased cooperation in the business sector on knowledge sharing and investment, as well as the solution of the defence's future tasks in Greenland. However, it is at least as important to ensure that cooperation in the Kingdom community works today and, unfortunately, there are a number of areas that do not work as they should. If Denmark believes that the kingdom community should also in the long term together be an Arctic great power, it must understand the importance of fulfilling its responsibilities also in Greenland. The emergency aid in Greenland is not too good. We are still waiting for the defence report to show how to ensure the safety of Greenlandic citizens, the marine environment, tourists, employees and air passengers who may need it. We've been waiting a long time for that report. By September it will have been 3 years since the Reichsaudit made the spectacular criticism of the preparedness in Greenland, and Greenland is still waiting for action. It is particularly striking that the defence has said that there is no means of dealing with the preparedness for a proposed mining project and that therefore the mine itself must finance the preparedness. That is far from acceptable. It also seems that we in Greenland will be waiting a long time for precise charts. As a number of key employees have not wanted to move with the Spatial Data Board to Aalborg, the government will now break the agreement with Greenland on the preparation of charts. Although one may have sympathy for the political objective, it is not acceptable to place Danish domestic policy on account of agreements reached between the parts of the Kingdom Community. This is not a sudden external situation, but a deliberate political decision. The breach of the agreement could easily have been avoided when the resignations were received, for example. by postponing the relocation of precisely the posts until the charts were drawn up and the agreement with Greenland was fulfilled. Therefore, the government must take responsibility and find a solution so that the agreement with Greenland on the chart survey can be respected. The Greenlandic justice system also needs to be overhauled, from the working conditions of the municipal officers and police, to the case bumps of the courts, to the terms of service of the sentenced persons. I would like to sign for the solutions to acute problems we have had with the previous government, such as the reopening of the temporary institution in Kangerlussuaq, as well as an extra effort to remove some of the cases. But that is not enough. The lack of political will to give priority to the Greenlandic justice system puts parts of the legal certainty of the citizens of the Kingdom less favourable than that of others. We can do better than that. If Denmark wants to act as an Arctic great power, it requires that it has a good relationship with the Arctic part of the Commonwealth as a starting point. This requires a special effort to promote the responsibilities that are 100 per cent. Danish responsibility. This should be taken into account by the government in the preparatory work of the Finance Law which runs over the summer holidays. In addition, the Arctic Strategy of the Kingdom Community must and must be carried out in close cooperation with the Greenlandic authorities if the ambition to become an Arctic great power is to be taken seriously. In Greenland we have our own elected parliament and our own elected government. The Danish Government should involve our elected representatives much more closely in dynamic cooperation on the policies pursued in the Arctic and foreign policy in general. It is significant for the current way of conducting foreign policy that the Taksøe report did not involve the Greenlandic government or authorities in the preparation of the report until the report was ready, despite the fact that it is Greenland that forms the Arctic part of the Kingdom Community. The next step should therefore be to refine the foreign policy strategy in cooperation with Greenland and the Faroe Islands, so that it can become the whole strategy of the Kingdom community and not just Denmark's strategy. We are part of the world for good and evil, and neither large nor small countries can themselves. The national community is today the third largest NATO country in terms of area. If Greenland one day leaves the Kingdom, Greenland will still be the third largest NATO country in terms of area. Denmark as an Arctic great power is still a dream, and it will therefore require a serious and active commitment on the part of Denmark if we are to become an Arctic great power together in the Kingdom Community. The Kingdom is so much more than just Danishism. These are different stories, different languages, different values and different approaches. This must be our strength and starting point, for then the Kingdom will be something we share, even after Greenland becomes an independent nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601203244	We shall begin with the brief remarks. The first one's from sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601203251	Thank you for that and thank you very much to Mrs Aleqa Hammond for her speech. I just want to make sure that the rapporteur shares my view that the Kingdom Community, that is, with the world as it currently stands, with the international challenges and the international interest of the entire Arctic, that is, really the immediate area of Greenland, is more important today than ever, so at least very, very important in the time we are in now and here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601203320	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601203321	Yes, it absolutely is. We in Greenland have also always found it important, not only in connection with our common voice during the Arctic Council's work between eight Arctic countries, but also certainly during the Arctic 5 work, that Denmark and Greenland in the Kingdom Community have a voice to work with. Having said that, we still think that the Kingdom community is a dynamic size which has different priorities and values. That is why we think it is quite natural that the Kingdom community should show respect for our differences in the Kingdom community. With this approach, I firmly believe that the dynamic operation of the Kingdom community will also affect our partners in the Arctic regions with indigenous peoples.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601203407	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601203408	Thank you. I think we are very much in agreement on that. Now Mrs Aleqa Hammond mentions Ambassador Taksøe-Jensen and his report. Can Mrs Aleqa Hammond confirm that Ambassador Taksøe-Jensen was in Nuuk speaking to as well as Naalaksuisut as Inatsisartut?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601203430	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601203431	I can confirm that he was in Greenland. Unfortunately, I was not present because I was in North Greenland when he was there, but that was after he finished his report. It had to be shown, which had to be called for a citizens' meeting, so that you could hear what he had of priorities on the basis of his report. Neither Naala Suisut nor anyone in Greenland has been involved in the actual drafting of the report, despite, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, Greenland is indeed the Arctic part of the Commonwealth. I think it would have been very, very good for the Kingdom community to have at least involved the authorities and Arctic experts from home to make the report a community thing and not something purely Danish.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601203512	Then Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen is.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601203515	Thank you very much. And thank you for your speech. The rapporteur was not present at yesterday's debate on uranium, which is why I should like to take this opportunity to ask a question. After all, the rapporteur has previously been chairman of the Naala Suisut, and the uranium report came out a few years ago, when the rapporteur supported Greenland's legislative competence. She made this very clear at the time. What is the reason why the rapporteur has changed his position since then?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601203548	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601203549	We haven't changed our mind. We have not changed our position, on the contrary. We have always been clear about our position: Greenland is the executive and legislative power in the field of raw materials. It always has been. But since Greenland is not yet a nation and we have Denmark to lean on when it comes to ratifying conventions of which Greenland is not a part, but where Denmark has done so on behalf of the state, it is necessary that we establish a cooperation agreement, just as we have done with the uranium cooperation agreement between Naalaksuisut and the government, and that is quite appropriate; it is quite natural that we have a common position in this area so that we can support each other's priorities in the field of raw materials. I am also very pleased that, under my leadership, a committee has been set up to ensure that the issues that may exist between Greenland and Denmark are addressed, and this committee has subsequently made some good recommendations, which both governments stand together and which we deal with in the Folketing with great support.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601203655	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601203657	Thank you very much. That is also a different view from that expressed by the rapporteur in the past. The rapporteur also mentioned in his speech that English must be strengthened and, ideally, we would like to see Inuit Ataqatigiits help us to strengthen the language both in relation to Greenlandic-Danish and English. We also know that a large part of our young people are studying in Denmark, and that is why I would like to hear what the rapporteur thinks about continuing to ensure that young people in Greenland also have the opportunity to take an education. What plans have been made for the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601203737	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601203738	Now I am not going to reply on behalf of the Greenland Government, I am sitting here as a member of parliament, but we are following what is going on and what has been brought about by the proposals for Inatsisartut. It is nothing new to discuss whether to turn English into the first foreign language and Danish into the second foreign language and Greenlandic into the official language. That discussion has been going on for a number of years, and it may be that the questioner has overlooked it, but it is something that has been going on for some time now, and I am very pleased that we now have a government that dares to take the next step and say that globalisation is the way forward, international cooperation is the way forward and that the language then must, of course, also keep up with it, but not by saying that we are abandoning Danish.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601203819	Then it's Mrs. Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601203821	Thank you for that and thank you for your speech. We are waiting for the defence report on preparedness, and it will be interesting to see what it says, because we know that it is a very difficult task to solve in Greenland. How much does the rapporteur think that preparedness must be increased before it can be said that it is sufficient?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601203853	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601203854	I believe, at any rate, that we should base ourselves on the very, very critical report of the National Audit Office which appeared three years ago in September. A very sharp criticism has been made of the government that the lack of charts in Greenland can result in major accidents at sea and that it has not been given sufficient priority. The Arctic Command even says that if you do not follow up on the tasks that are subject to them and thus also ensure good charts today, it is only a matter of time before there will be a disaster at sea, where cruise ships enter the shore, which is not sea-measured, and that is purely Danish responsibility. If this accident occurs in an area where it is very difficult to save people in a fjord that lies two days sailing away then we face a very big problem and international criticism for which Denmark is responsible. And in no way do we think that the Kingdom community is worthy of this. I think it is very important that the Kingdom Community should be united in terms of safety at sea wherever you may be in the Kingdom Community.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601204004	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601204006	Following the visits I have had in Greenland, I believe that there is indeed a very good cooperation between the Danish authorities and the Greenland authorities on the solution of the tasks that can arise from time to time when there is an accident at sea. I agree, of course, that we must do the very best we can. I also think that some of it belongs to the Greenlandic area, i.e. that which is 3 km from the coast to that place, and then it is the Danish preparedness. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether there are other things that can be done. I totally agree with the navigation charts, but are there other things?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601204056	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601204057	In a place where safety is very poor, it is incredibly important to have a good network of agencies that can help each other in the event that there is an accident ahead. There is currently very good cooperation between police, firemen, Arctic Command, health care and the like. Recently there has been a large-scale exercise in Nuuk to at least see how much we can lift in the event of a disaster. It is an attempt to see what you can do from home instead of just picking on the Danish government. We are trying everything we can, but we also know that if something happens, we cannot make a cruise ship with 3 000 on board when we can barely save ourselves if there is a minor accident at home. So a special effort is needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601204146	Then it's mr. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601204150	Thank you. I understand that the Greenlanders would like to participate in these financial negotiations, but why not? So, I do not think there is any Finance Minister who will say: no, the four mandates from the North Atlantic are not being invited. I'm sure you'd like that. The problem is also so often that you have to be prepared to take the responsibility that comes with making a financial settlement also those things that can be unpleasant. There I would say that the Greenlandic mandates from IA and Siumut have always been very good at joining alliances that had no influence. At the moment, the Red Block has been supported, knowing that the Red Block has little influence. Why don't you go where the influence is? When there was a red government, there was an alliance with the Enhedslisten, which certainly had little to say at that time. If you engage and go in where the influence lies, then I am sure that every Finance Minister will receive the four mandates with a kissing hand.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601204253	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601204255	I do not think it would be appropriate for Greenlandic MPs to move to the government which is in office at any time and join everything they do so that they can be listened to at all. I think it is incredibly important that the current government always invites all parties to financial law negotiations. When they go out into the press and say that they have called all parties for negotiations, they have failed to call all the parties from the North Atlantic. I think it would be quite natural and appropriate for an invitation to be sent out as a good gesture and to treat all members of parliament on an equal footing. I'd think that was quite natural. We have very good cooperation with other parties. We're fine with that. I also think that calling the collaborators we have in the Folketing as parties that have no influence is stretching it equally much, because I think that we are doing well with the people with whom we work and with the parties with whom we work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601204354	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601204355	But does Mrs Aleqa Hammond not understand that when the four North Atlantic members of the Folketing have joined the red bloc, it is not the first place Denmark's Finance Minister is looking for a possible partner? Is it not understood that this is the reason why it does not happen? I believe, moreover, that without being able to speak on behalf of the Minister for Finance, he would have no objection to inviting the four North Atlantic members for an initial discussion, as well as all other parties being invited. Then it is a question of whether we are going to hang on and continue in the financial negotiations, even where it is going to be a disgrace. And there I have a feeling that Mrs Aleqa Hammond and Siumut have long since disappeared.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601204435	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601204436	No, we're not. Then you don't know us right. I think it would be quite natural to invite all parties to negotiations as Finance Minister on behalf of the government, to remember that there are a little more parties in the Folketing than just those who are here in Denmark, that there are also North Atlantic mandates and that they each represent a party. I think that would be quite natural, and I think that is the way it should be, instead of assuming that they probably belong to some party and that they may be negotiated on behalf of them. No, I think we should be treated on an equal footing with all other parties here, as stated in the Constitution. We have also been promised to remember this next time, so that there will be improvements.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601204518	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601204520	Thank you. At any rate, I have also heard senior members of the government pledge that the four North Atlantic mandates should be invited to the financial law negotiations so that it will be exciting to see how things are going. I fully agree with the rapporteur's criticism. It is so embarrassing that we have a government that does not comply with the agreements on the charts. We simply cannot be aware of this, and I believe that a solution must be found, and I am glad that Mrs Aleqa Hammond also mentions it here, because it is shameful that the government looks at it very much, just because it has to have ideologically relocated some jobs. They could just wait to move out until it was done. I'd like to hear more about the base in Thule. What solution does Mrs Aleqa Hammond see to the problem that has arisen up there? What does it take to solve the problem, and where does it lie?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601204616	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601204618	If Denmark, according to the Taksøe report, is to be Arctic great power, then this is not due to the fact that the Arctic power does not give priority to sea map production of the Arctic part of the Commonwealth. It doesn't make sense. We must therefore be able to do better, and I think that would be quite natural, so I have high hopes that this will be given priority, and I also hope that the Prime Minister and his staff will ensure that it is given a priority which it deserves. As far as Thule Air Base is concerned, I would say that the general attitude of the population is probably that: I hope it was Greenland that benefited from the presence of the Americans, not just from the tax income from the civilian part of the base. But it's not. It is not Greenland that negotiates the defence agreement. It is Denmark that does so on behalf of Greenland or on behalf of the Kingdom Community, and in this context, of course, I hope that the agreement that may now come will be at least as good, but also even better and with improvements, but it will also require that the Danish Government and the Greenland Government, in close cooperation, ensure that it takes account of the Kingdom Community and not least Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601204727	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601204729	Thank you. Can Mrs Aleqa Hammond tell us a little about how far we are in those negotiations, because that agreement has simply been postponed so that we actually live on an unknown short period of time, which means that at some point the time has passed, and then there should preferably be an agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601204748	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601204749	I certainly believe that it is of great interest to all parties not only Greenland and Denmark, but also the Faroe Islands, that one looks at how the process is going to end. We all have an interest in knowing that the sooner, the better. The presence of the Americans in Greenland is also a matter of great concern to us. This is also why a Danish-Greenland-American cooperation in the Joint Committee was established in the past in approx. 2003. This should result in Greenland getting more benefit from the presence of the Americans, both in terms of trade, tourism and education and so on, but it has not supplied substance, as we want it, and we also think that it should be renegotiated.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601204829	We thank Aleqa Hammond and move on in the rapporteur's line to Magni Arge, Tjóðveldi.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601204844	Thank you. Today, exactly one year ago, I agreed to run for the parliamentary elections and can now look back on my first season at Castle. If anyone is in doubt, I have tried to make it understandable to the Danish Parliament that we have a strong independence movement in the Faroe Islands and a expressed desire to cement our right to self-determination. This requires some rethinking about the relationship between Denmark and the Faroe Islands, and I will come back to that. As a Republican, on the other hand, I have largely refrained from interfering in purely Danish matters, because I believe basically that the Danes should make decisions for Denmark and that the Faroe Islands should make decisions for the Faroe Islands. It is important to create an understanding of what is moving in the Faroe Islands, but it is also necessary to see what the situation really is in 2016 and from there to look forward, like both 5, 10 and 20 years • and beyond. There should be good conditions for an up-to-date and constructive dialogue between the countries, because in both countries we had new fresh governments within a few months of late summer. In the Faroe Islands we formed a progressive government that wants to take even greater responsibility for the development of Faroese society, and the Danish government is led by a Prime Minister who has more contact with the Faroe Islands than any Prime Minister before him. But expectations have not been met. Instead of taking a constructive approach to the agenda of the new Faroese Home Rule Government, it seems that Denmark's government would rather lean on the political line of the opposition and the sister party of the Samband Party, which was laid down in 1906. The party represents a constitutional conservatism that could not even be surpassed by the Northern Ireland Unionist Pastor Ian Paisley. This has so far resulted in the Prime Minister and his government sticking to a concrete legal interpretation of the constitution and the unity state when we talk about the broad lines of Faroese constitution and foreign policy manoeuvrability. But on the other hand, the symbolist drum of the so-called Commonwealth is hard hit when it comes to the purchase of 534 Faroese flags, which are to wander from public Danish flagpoles when we have a party and Ólavsøka • which is not our national day, but a national party. During the parliamentary year, we have repeatedly discussed the national government's objective of presenting a constitution, Stjórnarskipan, to the Faroe Islands for a referendum in 2017. Each time we get the same announcement from the Prime Minister's Office, namely that it must be kept within the framework of the constitution and the Kingdom, and that if you want to resign from the kingdom, you can do so. The latter, of course, is meant as a hidden threat to the Faroe Islands if you do not stay within the framework of the Danish Government. I think I speak for most people when I say that the desire for a Faroese constitution is about the cohesion of Faroese society and about Faroese self-determination. We have taken on a great responsibility for our people and their well-being. It is about legislation, it is about administration, it is about economics, it is about Faroese language, it is about Faroese culture, and it is about Faroese independence. It must be properly grounded in some fundamental values and agreements that unite our people and create a framework that we will all appreciate and safeguard. I am convinced that a large majority of the Faroese people are prepared to vote in favour of a Faroese constitution and the Faroese self-determination. On the other hand, I think it is an untimely interference when we repeatedly suspect the motives behind the desire for a Faroese constitution and demand a distinction between a constitution within and outside the framework of the Kingdom Community. I really do not think that the government should wrap up the Faroese will in a pre-defined legal form, which is cast by the Ministry of Justice and the Prime Minister's Office in Denmark. It must be up to the Faroese people to decide for themselves. Denmark has a long tradition of stretching the interpretation of what can be contained within the constitution, so where there is a will, there is also a way. Home government and self-government systems in particular are good examples of this, and I have taken note of two fresh examples, one of which is the law to stop the so-called hate preachers, and the government says that it will challenge the limits of the constitution. And the second is the matter of citizen involvement, where a change in the word right to the word possibility creates the necessary constitutional space. Remember, the Constitution is not about secession, but about strengthening the foundations of the Faroese nation. If the Faroese people decide at a later stage for secession, they will decide whether it will require a different constitution from the one they now want to implement. A few days ago I visited an exhibition at the National Museum of Ireland in Dublin. It bore the name "Proclaiming a Republic": The 1916 Rising, and it was about the Easter uprising in Dublin 100 years ago, which became so important for the formation of the Irish Republic. This was not the first time the Irish rebelled against the British oppressors. The uprising developed into a week-long tragedy in which 500 people perished, most of them civilians, and the seven leaders of the self-appointed Provisional Irish Government were all executed. Thus, the English defeated the rebels with a cash effort and held unbridledly in power. But their steep attitude led to the rebels winning the Irish hearts and, on that basis, six years later they could form the first government in the Irish Free State, which was later proclaimed as a republic. Now I do not expect the situation with the referendum in the Faroe Islands to develop as in Dublin 100 years ago or as in Klaksvík 50 years ago when a warship of policemen was sent to the Faroe Islands to defeat rebellious salmonids. It's all about a constitution, not a secession. But the government's conservative line when it comes to the unity state and the framework of the constitution is not constructive and belongs to the past. It must not and will not prevent us from formulating and deciding a Faroese constitution at our own request. Compared to the government's announcements, however, the debate in the Danish Parliament on the Danish Empire was much more open, nuanced and committed. Most rapporteurs opened a constructive and up-to-date debate on the relationship between Denmark and the Faroe Islands, which was intended not only to ensure the existence of the Danish Kingdom, but also to identify the positions, interests and visions of the countries for the future, and which basis can be created in order to develop a new model of cooperation, a version 2 or 3, if you like. For example, historian Uffe Østergaard has. pointed out that a new federal model of cooperation is needed to replace the 1948 home governance model. By the way, it's retired. And the politicologist Ulrik Pram Gad actually follows up with his thesis that while EU countries are striving for an ongoing adaptation through an ambition to develop an ever-closer relationship, the constant aspirations of the Faroe Islands and Greenland for greater autonomy require a ever-losser model for cooperation with Denmark. And precisely this quest for greater autonomy is the motive behind the often successful development in the Faroe Islands. I will not tire you much more on this wonderful summer day, but let me just mention on the positive list that I recognise the efforts to identify border barriers between countries. Unfortunately, the list is long and growing, and it often hits people quite randomly and unintentionally. A proposal for the reduction of border barriers is that the government helps the Faroe Islands to enter into the Nordic agreements independently, because it is in fact the case that other Nordic citizens, through these agreements in certain contexts, have better protected rights in Denmark than forefathers have, and vice versa. Another suggestion could be that both Danish and Faroese legislators made greater efforts to ensure that countering unintended consequences were dealt with already during the examination of legislative proposals. Experience shows that Denmark's continued integration with the EU has resulted in a process in which the Faroe Islands and Denmark drift farther and farther apart, whether intended or not. As you know, it is difficult to serve two masters at the same time, and it can sometimes be quite complicated to find around in the so-called Kingdom community. One example is that Danes with Danish citizenship who move to the Faroe Islands do not have the right to vote in the European Parliament because the Faroe Islands have chosen to be outside the EU. However, Danes with Danish citizenship who move to a third country that is also outside the EU retain their right to vote in the European Parliament. This shows a specific democratic problem for Danes, and it has arisen from the fact that the relationship between Denmark and the Faroe Islands is not so simple that we can just sit back and enjoy the prospect of a harmonious unitary state, because it does not exist. It could perhaps be solved by a dual citizenship with a Faroese and a Danish passport. At least we had clear lines. But the answer to that is enough that it does not allow the Constitution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601205943	Thank you to the rapporteur. We have a number of brief comments to make. First, it is Mrs Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601205948	Thank you. I have one question for the rapporteur. After all, I am in favour of the Kingdom Community and there is no doubt that the rapporteur speaks for independence in the Faroe Islands. It is my view that the Faroe Islands can have autonomy when the Faroes wanted it, and the other day the Faroe Islands actually got full support here in the Parliament hall to take back a number of other matters. So, in my opinion, the Faroese people decide whether or not to join the Commonwealth, and I would like to hear the rapporteur's comments on how accession to become an independent nation looks in the Faroe Islands.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601210044	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601210045	If Mrs Karin Gaardsted thinks that it will be a sovereign state, then I think that we are moving in that direction, and at the moment it is the case that we have reached a level of close to 90 per cent in economic terms. the Finance Act is paid by Faroese nationals. And most of the matters that can be taken home are about to be taken home. I think we're missing 10-12 pieces or so, so we're getting a long way along the way. One of the reasons why I speak as loudly as I do about these things, such as: As far as foreign policy is concerned, when we have virtually de facto full responsibility for the whole of the Faroese economy, the whole of the Faroese welfare, we also need to have a full commercial policy opportunity to act in the world. But we do not have that with the foreign policy law as it is today, because we cannot be in international forums where Denmark is already a member. We are also in a different situation when, for example, we are in a different situation. is about looking at how fishing quotas are distributed. If both the Faroe Islands and Greenland are involved and we have conflicting interests, then we equalise each other's voice and actually have no influence.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601210206	Thank you. It's Mrs. Karin Gaardsted again.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601210207	I do not think I was given an answer as to how the connection to independence is in the Faroe Islands.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601210221	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601210222	Then I should have understood better, I didn't hear it right. I can tell you that the Republican party, which is the furthest out on the side of independence, has 23-25 per cent support, and the endorsement of a constitution of the kind we are talking about here and, for example, a right of self-determination for the Faroe Islands, I think is close to 65-70 per cent. Or so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601210251	Then we move on to Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601210255	It is always a pleasure to listen to Mr. Magni Arge, as the rapporteur knows. Like Mrs Karin Gaardsted, I hope, of course, that the Faroe Islands will remain in the Kingdom of Denmark and will benefit both the Faroe Islands and Denmark. My question is whether it is not in most cases an advantage for the Faroe Islands to be in the Kingdom community. On the one hand, you get extensive freedom to do what you want to do, and on the other hand, there is a certain security by getting help from Denmark. And here I am thinking in particular of the Sea Shepherd pirates, who have tried to invade the Faroe Islands. And there the Danish police were helpful and inmates in an excellent way crew and boats. I've seen videos from there, and it was a pleasure to see how they handled these pirates. So does the rapporteur not see that there are, in fact, many good reasons to remain in the Kingdom community instead of seeking independence?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601210404	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601210405	Basically, I think it is healthy for a people to be ambitious, to take care of their own destiny and their own circumstances and to take their entire destiny into their own hands. And that is actually my motivation for my support for Faroese independence. It's like I said to Mr. Knox. Søren Espersen the other day, not that I am against Denmark, I am for the Faroe Islands. I agree, and I can easily sign for it, that especially here in the Danish Parliament there has been a great and strong support throughout the laughing battle with Sea Shepherd, and I am grateful for that. On the other hand, I would like to say that I believe that the embargo imposed on the Faroe Islands by European countries, including Denmark, where all Danish ports were closed to Faroese pelagic fish exports, for example, is a clear example of the fact that we have ended up in a construction between the Faroe Islands and Denmark, where we can have such strong conflicting interests that it is absolutely necessary for the Faroe Islands to have the media that we need to cope with a foreign policy dispute that we had at the time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601210509	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601210510	After all, an independent nation must also create a navy, an army, a defence, and it can be very expensive, and the Faroese economy is vulnerable because it is based almost exclusively on fish. So will the rapporteur not admit that it is actually an advantage for the Faroe Islands to be in the Kingdom community and at the same time have extensive freedom? Then Denmark comes and helps when it is needed, because we are so much bigger than the Faroe Islands and thus also have a better economy for among other things. to defend the Faroe Islands.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601210547	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601210548	I would still like to say that I would very much like to cooperate with Denmark, I would very much like to cooperate with all our neighbouring countries, I would very much like to cooperate with most countries in the world, but I would like to do so in an equal way, where we have the same rights towards each other. This is not the case in the Kingdom community. The Kingdom is not a community of kingdoms, it is a unitary state in which the Faroe Islands have acquired partial powers of some kind. But it is not the same as having a sovereignty to take care of our own destiny in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601210621	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601210622	Thank you. I find it very difficult to hide the fact that I am very excited about Mr. Magni Arge's great desire to take care of the future of the Faroese and the actual situation of the Faroese. This is the most healthy attitude I know if you want to work with your own country. Imagine if we Danes had the attitude that we would rather be subject to some others. Now we in Denmark are so lucky that we are the leaders of the Kingdom Community. I think it is extremely exciting what is happening in the Faroe Islands at the moment, especially with regard to the constitution. My personal view is that, whatever the origins of the constitution, it cannot be contrary to the community of the Kingdom and to the rules of home government and self-government. This cannot be done because it has just been stated that the road to independence is possible. That is why I think it is wrong, as we discussed the other day in the debate on the Commonwealth, that we should start to say: within the framework of the Kingdom Community. Well, you can do that. You have virtually free hands to do what you want. I do not think that the Faroese should be restricted by the framework of the Kingdom.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601210732	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601210733	Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl. I also thank you for the support that often comes from that side of the House. I am pleased that I have not spoken for deaf ears and that there is support for it. One can sometimes discuss the development of the cooperation between Denmark and the Faroe Islands for the future, because the model we have today is therefore not up to date in relation to the specific challenges we face in 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601210803	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601210805	I'd like to know when, sir. Magni Arge believes that it will actually be possible to become a hundred percent self - employed in economics and otherwise. I agree that you do not have to have a military of your own to be independent. There are other countries, for example. The neighbouring country of the Faroe Islands, which lives quite well by having alliances and by having agreements with others. I certainly do not believe that national independence depends on having an army. It's old-fashioned and conservative to think like that. But when does Mr. Magni Arge himself with that independence could be an opportunity?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601210843	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601210844	We have that as soon as we have a majority in the Faroe Islands that backs us up on it. This could happen in a relatively short time, but it will have an economic consequence. I believe that we must be able to pay fully for our expenses. Then we are about to be where it does not make much difference whether we are in or not, from an economic point of view. But political autonomy can be achieved before that. To return a little to the question that you also commented on, and which I received earlier, about the military and similar situation here, it is the case that the military defence of the Faroe Islands is largely in the hands of the British and NATO and not necessarily in Denmark. You can see that in the Icelandic model, so I don't really see that as the real challenge.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601210931	We need to be careful with the direct charges. Then it's Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601210937	When we hear the presentations, both from Greenland and from the Faroe Islands, we very often find that we are strongly in favour of independence, and we see that there is a very great desire for the greatest possible discharge of all responsibilities for the future, and I think it is actually very good that there is a natural process where the kingdom community is changing. The fact that the Commonwealth is changing also means that we increasingly have our own values and our own views on things, it is a little different and it appears more clearly than it has done in the past. At the same time, I also think that it is not just a question of admitting that you should be in a community or not. I also think it is important that we should meet across the Kingdom community an acceptance and respect for the fact that we have different views on a Kingdom community. But leaving the Kingdom is not just a matter of economics. I would like to ask the rapporteur what other things are important for the Faroe Islands in terms of secession, in addition to the economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601211039	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601211040	In addition to the economy, it is important that we engage in sensible cooperation with other countries, among others. the Nordic countries, and that is among other things. in the field of Arctic cooperation and Western Norse cooperation. It is also a question of achieving sensible cooperation agreements with the European Union, and it may be across the Atlantic with the United States. But I would also very much like us to have a very constructive and sensible relationship with Denmark with regard to the way in which we develop cooperation, which ultimately results in two sovereign states working together on things that are beneficial to work together on, and where we saw where we think it is beneficial that we do it in different ways, go other ways. However, one of the major challenges we face will, of course, be the legal regulation that we need to have and to ensure that we have a rule of law that is equal to what is happening today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601211143	Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601211144	The Faroe Islands are part of the Danish Kingdom's claim to the continental shelf and they are part of the Arctic Council as a result of the Commonwealth, but in addition, the Tax Island Report has produced a very interesting angle on how Denmark should act in relation to the Arctic area, and it is also believed that Denmark should be an Arctic great power. Where do the Faroe Islands see themselves here, since they are not part of the Arctic?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601211212	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601211213	Now I would say that part of the Faroese continental shelf is therefore north of the Arctic Circle, and then it has been established. So we're also part of the Arctic family, if you can put it that way, even though we may not be in Arctic 5. I am convinced that the Faroe Islands and Greenland, for example. in a collaboration with Iceland, could become a very strong player in the Arctic area. I think it is sensible to enter into such cooperation because at this stage we can have access to cooperation with some of the great players on the geopolitical stage, such as the United States, Russia and Canada.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601211250	Then it's mr. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601211251	Thank you and also thank the rapporteur for a fine speech. Just as it is soon 21 June, which is Greenland's national day, it is also soon 29 July, which is the Faroe Islands' national day. I would therefore like to return to the aforementioned 534 state flag poles, which the Prime Minister had listed earlier this year, and which he also mentioned in his speech today, and which the rapporteur himself mentioned in his speech, and which I have been reminded of is in fact at the top of the list of government achievements in relation to the Commonwealth. I understand that this is a very important achievement for the government with regard to the Commonwealth, which is why I would also like to hear the rapporteur's assessment of the gesture of government and the Prime Minister that the flag of a Faroese and Greenlandic flag on the respective national days is about to fly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601211353	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601211354	Firstly, we can discuss whether 29 July is the Faroese National Day. But I can tell you that the Faroese flag day is April 25th, and I would say that was a more appropriate day if you were to see what date it should be. I have nothing at all against Denmark and other nations flapping and greeting the Faroe Islands on our flag day or at our Olaifest or something like that. What I have questioned, and which I am concerned about, is if you use the former flag Merkið to represent the entire Danish kingdom or Denmark. For Merkið, only the Faroe Islands represent the Faroe Islands alone. On the other hand, I believe that the Folketing has put in place a procedure which I value very much, and it is in this way that the Faroese flag is fluttered on one flagpole and with the Danish flagpole on the other, as is the case with the large presidential visits that come to the Folketing. This is something that I value very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601211459	Sir. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601211500	Thank you. Unfortunately, I have never been to the Faroe Islands, even though I am rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, but I hope to be able to do so a little later this year, and that is why I have not had the opportunity to ask the Faroese people whether they have had a wish to introduce flags with the Faroese flag in Denmark. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether there has been such a desire on the part of the Faroe Islands, and as we are now approaching 5 June, which is the Danish Constitution Day, I should like to ask whether there is indeed a flag of Danish flags on the Faroe Islands that day. Because I don't know that either.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601211538	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601211539	I am quite convinced that there will be a flag with the Danish flag on the guest flagpole on Tinganes, where the Faroese Home Rule Government is located, on 5 June, but not on the official flagpoles. I think there have been some reactions to this initiative to flag the Danish flag poles, and most of them have been critical. But, by the way, people have remained reasonably passive in relation to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601211610	Then it's mr. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601211612	Thank you. It's about this thing with the Constitution and the Constitution that has to stay within the Constitution. In other words, the last three prime ministers have clearly stated that there was no opposition to a constitution in the Faroe Islands which would then only have to remain within the framework of the constitution. And that's what I understand you don't want to do. Now, in this regard, I would just like to ask Mr. Magni Arge to interpret section 1 of the Constitution, which reads like this: This Constitution applies to all parts of the Danish Empire. What does that mean?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601211659	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601211701	This means that it applies to Denmark, it applies to the Faroe Islands, and it applies to Greenland separately, and it has also been possible to interpret it in such a way in 1948 that you could have a system of home government, and at a later stage that you could have a system of self-government. What I advocate is not necessarily outside the framework of either the constitution or what the government says. I am just saying that we should not lay a framework in advance where the right of definition lies with the Prime Minister's Office or the Ministry of Justice. For the concrete legal interpretation, which is in their hands, is always used for the advantage of the rulers and, contrary to what the people of the Faroe Islands may want • if there is, we will not see until we have seen what comes on the table.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601211801	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601211801-2	Yeah, well, I'm interpreting that paragraph so that it applies to all parts of the Danish Empire. It is a constitution, as Mr. Magni Arge himself, moreover, has signed to comply when he became a member of the Danish Parliament last summer. What did Mr. Magni Arge, when he signed it, and that the constitution here lies above all within the realm of Denmark, and that the constitutions that may be made must remain within the constitution until the moment when the Faroe Islands have autonomy? What did Mr. Magni Arge, when he signed up to comply with this law out here in the Walking Hall?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601211837	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601211839	It says on the document that Magni Arge agrees to adhere to the Danish constitution with the remark and addition that he will actively work for the Faroe Islands to have their own constitution. That's what it says on my document, and you can have a copy of it at some point. But then I would also say that it is not unusual in many countries to have a supranational, if I may say so, in a Commonwealth or in a federation, and that there are sub-fundamental laws for the individual states which are in such a federation or union.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601211920	Then it's mr. Henrik Brodersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601211923	Thank you. I would like to start by signing for the speech, and I would also like to say to the rapporteur that we have noticed that there has been a freedom fighter in the Folketing from the North Atlantic. That's a good point. I have a great deal of respect for the enthusiasm that is being put into having your foot more under your own desk. We ourselves know this from here with the European Union. I feel a bit that much has come and has always come very badly from the European Union, but the worst thing is that it has helped to knock a wedge into the kingdom community and the cooperation that has always been between the Faroe Islands and Denmark. We have had this debate on the Kingdom Community, where a proposal for adoption was put forward, and it can be said that at best no one was harmed. On the other hand, the Danish People's Party put forward a proposal for adoption, which unfortunately only found support from us, where there was something constructive to say: let us sit down, let us talk. That is what the rapporteur wants. Why, then, did not the proposal for adoption be approved?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601212041	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601212042	It was kind of technical in it. I would like to sign for what the Danish People's Party presented at that time. That is also why I say that the parliamentary debate itself was far more constructive than what we hear from the government. I think there were protests from many parties that we could enter into a much more modern and sensible constructive debate on this future. In fact, I think that the part of the proposal that the Danish People's Party had was quite fine, but it was so curly that it said that it was about preserving the Kingdom community, and I am not sure that it will end up in that. Perhaps it could, if it were as sovereign entities, where one felt that one had one's right of self-determination, a right of self-determination which the Danish People's Party also values very much for Denmark, I suppose.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601212132	Sir. Henrik Brodersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601212134	Thank you. But we have everything else equal, as Mr. Søren Espersen mentioned a set of rules, a constitution that says that we have a kingdom community. Within that there are not the wide powers, but if you still hand out and say okay, let's see if you could find another way of interpreting it, a forward-looking cooperation which was perhaps broader, perhaps faster access to some more areas that were taken home, then it is still a mystery to me that you could not agree to such a proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601212212	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601212214	I think it would be constructive to enter into such a debate and such a dialogue in the Danish Parliament about what is called the future of the Kingdom Community, but I have to say clearly once again: I am convinced that the Faroe Islands have the right to decide for themselves whether we should be an independent country or not, and I do not accept that this is something where we are subject to Denmark. That's up to us.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601212243	Thank you, sir. Magni Arge. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601212250	Thank you for that, President. The Faroe Islands must be bombed. Russia should show its international power, its authority by bombing the Faroe Islands. That is what the leader of the Liberal Democratic Party in Russia said a few days ago to Putin. Of course that is not going to happen, it was a madman who said it, but it feels like a shock when it is said that the Faroe Islands must be bombed. When the shock had subsided, I also thought it was a little forward-looking, because it came to mind that there are, in fact, many people on this planet who live in fear and real danger of being bombed, and in that light the problems that I am going to talk about today are no problems at all. I almost want to say: All is quiet on the north front; I am not making a speech, there is no problem at all. But it is my job to deal with the small problems we have, and I shall do so. It is only a few days ago that we had an excellent and committed debate about the Kingdom Community, where I think we got around very well in the hooks, so I shall therefore try to make it a little short today. The system of an annual debate on the Kingdom community started under the last government and has been continued by this government, and I sign for that. If we are to avoid conflicts, it is very important that the conversation never stops. I would also like to thank the government and the Danish Parliament for their cooperation in the past parliamentary year and briefly mention some of the specific cases. I acknowledge that the government has set up a working group under the Ministry of Social Affairs to coordinate and work to remove the far too many obstacles to the border between Denmark and the Faroe Islands, which unnecessarily make daily life far too difficult for too many people. As the Prime Minister said, a list has been drawn up and hopefully it will be much shorter next year when we have these obstacles removed. However, when the Prime Minister said in his speech this morning that we have completed the work on identifying border barriers, I would say that this is not quite right. That work never ends; there are still new obstacles. That is why I have proposed to make it a permanent part of the legislative process to say whether and how a new law or change of law affects the situation in the Kingdom community, just as it is said whether a law, for example, is applicable. have economic consequences. If that arrangement had been in force in recent years, our list would have been much shorter than it is, and it is far easier to avoid making a mistake than to correct it once it has been made. A study that I had carried out a few years ago showed that when it comes to the Faroe Islands, the level of knowledge among many Danes is limited. Everyone agrees that this is unfortunate, and the study has led to the start of prioritising the teaching material on the Faroe Islands in schools, as well as the fact that in the last media agreement the DR has to look further northwards. I have also sat with my colleagues and discussed the matter directly with DR, and there has since been more material about the Faroe Islands on the screen, both descriptive cultural programmes and critical journalism, both Faroese produced with Faroese speech and Danish produced with Danish speech. It needs to be expanded, but we are on the right path. The most important thing is to sharpen your attention and curiosity if you succeed, it goes on its own. I have pointed out in the past year that although the Faroe Islands are the country of the Commonwealth which has by far the fewest prisoners, these very prisoners have worse conditions and worse legal certainty than others, at least until the new prison in Nuuk has been built. This has led to small improvements, but it is not good enough. I hope that the government will choose the only reasonable solution and build a genuine prison in the Faroe Islands. It doesn't have to cost the world. There are many of us who are proud to be serving in the Danish army, but after the end of their service Faroese veterans do not get the offers made by their Danish colleagues, and this can unfortunately be read in both the social and human consequences. The offers reach, for example. As far as psychological assistance is concerned, etc., it must be better put in place, and it is of course not right for a Faroese veteran to have his medals sent by post, while the Danes have them handed over at a ceremony. I have raised this with the Prime Minister and the Minister for Defence and have received a positive response to the thanks for that, but there too we lack concrete action. There is a lot of focus on the Arctic, where the kingdom of Denmark because of Greenland is a central player. This has not led to conflicts in the Kingdom Community, and I think that we too can avoid this, to the benefit of everyone, if the dialogue is close, and the government recognises that Greenland and Faroese interests must be taken as a starting point. An Arctic working group has been set up in this House, which I myself chair, and which represents the Folketing widely around the globe when it comes to Arctic relations. The most active members are the North Atlantic, and it does not seem to cause any problems that we represent the Folketing. In this context, as a curiosity, I can mention that in April there was a parliamentary delegation in Washington to attend a conference on investment in the Arctic as well as a meeting of the US Foreign Ministry. The delegation consisted of me and my colleague Mr. Magni Arge, and this was the first time that the Folketing sent a delegation which consisted only of convicts. Maybe it was very symbolic. I would also like to thank the President-in-Office of the Foreign Affairs Council, Mr President. Søren Espersen, to strengthen through his post the visibility of Greenland and the Faroe Islands in foreign policy. In other areas, it may be a little more difficult to find common ground in foreign policy, and that is why the law on foreign policy, which requires coordination of Greenlandic and Faroese interests, is being abolished by the Faroe Islands. I hope to understand that the Kingdom community from the Faroe Islands is measured by whether it is an opportunity or a restriction, and whether you can pursue your own interests and needs both internally and in relations with other countries, or whether you cannot. Differences can be a virtue, and sometimes the community becomes stronger by not forcing everyone to speak with one voice. The Prime Minister mentioned this morning and it has also been mentioned later today that the Faroese flag must be raised on all Danish official flag poles once a year. I think it is a good idea to increase awareness of the community both inside and outside Denmark. The question is, of course, what this is and must be a symbol of. I think it should symbolise the fact that the Kingdom is made up of different people with different national identities, all of whom benefit from the community and all of whom are recognised and have rights. But a symbol can also become a catalyst, and my hope is that here I will strike a little on the same drum as my colleague Mr. Magni Arge, even though we do not have the same political objective that this recognition of the diversity of the community will also make us come to a common understanding and formal recognition of the fact that Denmark's kingdom today is something quite different and much more complex than the unitary state described in the Constitution. I have said that before, but it is because here for me we have the only profound conflict between the Faroe Islands and Denmark. And since there are very good conditions at the moment, it is now time to talk about what may develop unfortunately. When the Prime Minister, during the debate on 20 May on the work on a Faroese constitution, said that it is the officials of the Ministry of Justice who have the exclusive right to define the constitution and thus determine what can or does not stand in a Faroese constitution, then so to speak everyone in the Faroe Islands is in vertical disagreement. It's nothing new. They also disagreed with these officials when they said that the Faroe Islands could not have their own legislative power or their own tax system or take over the underground because it was a breach of the constitution. It has been shown time and time again that the legal notes of the officials are not stronger than the political will of the people, and fortunately for that. The interesting thing is that this is not just a conflict between the political system in the Faroe Islands and the experts of the Ministry of Justice. It is also a conflict between these experts and all other experts. In fact, there is not one independent public or State lawyer who has dealt with this, who agrees with the people of the Ministry of Justice that the Kingdom Community is fully within the framework of the Basic Law and not one. And that may give rise to a dull suspicion that the notes written are not legal but political, that is to say, that it is policy camouflaged as law. And that's not smart politics. The essence of what you want to do on the first side of the Faroe Islands' constitution is, of course, just the basic principle of democracy, that it is the people of the Faroe Islands who are the Faroe Islands' supreme authority. And it simply cannot be illegal, and it cannot be illegal under a law that certainly applies in the Faroe Islands, but in reality has not been adopted by the Faroese people if we are to stick to the very, very formalistic reading of things. If the position that the officials of the Ministry of Justice have the exclusive right to interpret the Constitution had been in force for the past 60 years, we would not have had a kingdom community today. Fortunately, however, the Kingdom has developed steadily and calmly in good understanding towards a kind of federation, and that is the understanding that we must safeguard in time. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601213335	There is a brief comment from Mrs Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601213337	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's contribution. After all, the debate on a Faroese constitution is very topical, and I would like to hear the rapporteur's interpretation of how it is with support for a new Faroese constitution. Which political parties really support this work?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601213403	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601213405	Thank you. I do not usually comment on the internal Faroese policy when I am here in the Danish Parliament, but when asked, I can lexically state that the proposal was actually finished in 2011. It was then the Social Democratic Party and the Sambands Party who voted in favour of the Communist Party that voted in favour of it, while the People's Party and Republicans, Tjóðveldisflokkurin, voted against it, so it was the secession wing that voted against it. There was one vote in difference and the proposal was withdrawn. It also shows that it is not a document of secession that we are dealing with, but an identity document in which we simply say yes to the Kingdom Community, but on our own terms; we recognise that we say yes to the Kingdom Community, but that the supreme authority in the Faroe Islands is of course the Faroese people. It is on that basis that we are in the Kingdom Community.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601213501	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601213503	Then I have another question: the same question that I put to Mr Beazley. Magni Arge. It is the question of whether the Faroe Islands can have autonomy, and this is about the Faroe Islands getting full support to take back another number of issues. After all, the Faroese decide whether they want to join the Kingdom or not. What about the connection to becoming an independent nation in the Faroe Islands?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601213540	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601213541	Thank you. Since 1948 there has been twice a coalition that wanted a secession. It was in 1962 and in 1998. They did not pursue their cause. Last time there was a clear majority. The parties which advocate full autonomy obtained a clear majority, but that majority was not used to form a government. Instead, we had a government under the leadership of the Social Democratic Party which is in favour of the Commonwealth, which I think shows that there are other conditions that are stronger than the issue of independence in the Faroe Islands, otherwise we would have had a different government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601213620	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601213621	Thank you, and thank you for the very interesting statement, also for the issue of autonomy and a kind of federation. I'd like to hear Mr. Sjúrður Skaale elaborates a little: Would it not be quite reasonable that if you want to create a new constitution in the Faroe Islands, you also have free hands to experiment with it, also over a period when you are still part of the Kingdom community, and then at some point you can assess whether you will continue to be a member, as there are the rules of home and self-government that are made? Denmark has actually given it the opportunity to experiment. That is why I think it is quite untimely for prime ministers and social democrats and others to say in good time and untimely: well, then you can just resign. I think there should be a certain room to experiment, also in the Faroe Islands and in Greenland, if you are to be decent and equal people in a kingdom community.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601213724	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601213725	Thank you. My party, which is in the leadership of the Faroe Islands today, wants to have a constitution, as I said, which is a kind of identity document in which we establish rights that we believe we have as a nation. We certainly do not want to get out of the Kingdom community. It seems to us that this is a good system that makes good sense, which gives great rights that give a great deal of freedom. Within this system, you must then have a constitution that highlights the values and rights of the Faroese people. That's what it's all about. It's not a secession document. We have had free hands to go beyond the limits of the Constitution over and over again. I mentioned several examples in my speech that it has been said from the outset that it is not possible for it to be a breach of the Constitution, but the political desire has been so strong that ultimately the experts of the Ministry of Justice have been disregarded and asked them to interpret the Constitution in a different way than they have done so far. Thus the Kingdom community has been developed for the success it has become.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601213822	Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601213824	But did I not hear the rapporteur say something about the fact that he would like there to be a greater equality on various issues which represent the Community of the Kingdom? The rapporteur himself said that he had been in the United States representing Denmark or the Commonwealth alone, and I think that is sensible. But I also think it makes sense to take account of the fact that, of course, the Faroe Islands and Greenland are involved in all issues which have a major interest, the Arctic, fisheries and what I know, so that it is really an equal cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601213900	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601213901	It is also one of the objectives of that Constitution that there should be greater equality between the parties. It is said that we can do what we want; it is said that there are three equal parts. There's just a desire to formalize it. It will strengthen the community, it will certainly not weaken the community.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601213921	Thank you, sir. Sjúrður Skaale. Then we have been through the rapporteur's line and I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601213938	I really think I will start my short line here, just as I also started my speech 12 hours and 40 minutes ago, by saying: thank you. It is only a poor word, but then you can also afford to use it even in times when resources are not endless, and you cannot do it too often. Thank you for the debate here today and tonight. Thank you to Mrs Mette Frederiksen for recognising the need for more private jobs, recognising that we cannot spend more money than we have. Thank you, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl for Dansk Folkeparti to enter autumn negotiations without making ultimate demands. Thank you so much. Thank you, sir. Ole Birk Olesen. It has been a good year, we have had a trusting cooperation, to quote directly now. Thank you, moreover, for having delivered the evening's oneliner, which I think we should all go to, and I quote: I feel that when I do not know anything about a subject, I do not want to speak out firmly and firmly about it. Quote out. That is actually a good principle. All the speeches will probably also be shorter if we all take this into account. Thank you for sir. Søren Pape Poulsen's acknowledgment of the government's work in order to keep the groundwork in order. Thank you, sir. Pelle Dragsted for adding the word "class-blind" to the debate, a word I didn't know until I came here today; it wasn't attached to me either, but to the Radicals. I do not agree, but I think it is nice to have creative expressions and a flourishing debate. It could inspire other words such as: problem-blind, but of course it's not quite that mouthy. Thank you to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr for wishing, yes, in fact I must understand dreams of joining my secretariat. It was not quite clear to me whether it was in the Prime Minister's Office or in the Left, but nevertheless. And thank you for the many free advices in this regard, although I fear a little that in the long run they would be more expensive if I took them in. So thank you to all those who have told us about people crossing their path. There's been a part of them, sir. Pelle Dragsted has met Susanne, who is on cash benefits. Mrs. Merete Riisager has met Valborg from the nursing home. Sir. Morten Østergaard has met his daughter, Johanne, and happy birthday. I also mentioned in my speech some of the people I have met who have touched me. I really think that has been positive, because it confirms that everyone in this Chamber, regardless of their political starting point, in contrast to what you can sometimes get the impression of when you see how the Danish Parliament is evaluated from the outside, would actually like to talk to people who live around Denmark, starting from their daily lives, in their situations, in their problems, in their concerns, in their hopes, and that applies to all of us. I guess that's true, too, sir. Søren Espersen, although he said that he does not have such a large circle of acquaintances that he can name. Yes, you also have to be careful how to name other people. Thank you, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll for a fantastic adventure about the prince on the White Reformer, who comes and rescues the welfare princess, whom I had to understand is me; I find it hard to see myself in that role, and the closest thing I myself have historically been to was when I played children's theatre, that was the role of Count Stankelben, and one can then also consider how I could be cast to it. Welfare Princess? Well, well, well, well, that's a habit bear growing high, and L.A. doesn't plan to wait for 100 years! Neither have I. So I think we should agree to cut it down in the autumn. I would like to be a part of this, and that is possible, because we have, of course, among all the results we have achieved, also liberalised the law on knives. So it's easy for someone like me to pull the freedom sword. I'd like to do that. I think there are many who are looking forward to the summer holidays, except for Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, who is looking forward to the autumn. I think we should take the summer first, but thank you anyway. Thank you, too, to our North Atlantic colleagues for having taken part in the debate here today. It's been good. Now it is not long since we had a great and actually historic long and, I think, very substantive debate on the Kingdom Community. The themes are therefore, it may be said, known, we discussed them thoroughly a few weeks ago, but I think it has been good and constructive. I am therefore pleased that there is broad agreement on the importance of the Kingdom community and cooperation between our countries. Thank you all for having taken part in the debate. There is, of course, the great thing about the small word, thank you, that it sets off a positive chain reaction. When you say thank you to someone, they say thank you, and you can say thank you for that. It creates good vibrations, I think, perhaps one would say in the alternative. That is why I would also like to thank Mr Seligman. Uffe Elbæk, who has not participated in the debate but who on Twitter praises the Left ad in today's morning newspapers for being good style. It's nice to represent someone who has a good style. I would also like to thank Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff's mother and others with her. I understand from Twitter that there was something about a shirt that was not ironed, but my business is really a little broader to say thank you to everyone who has followed the debate, also behind the TV screen. It's been a long day. It has also been a peaceful day. I think this is the 22nd graduation debate I am taking part in. I have tried to examine my memory, and I cannot really think of any graduation debate that has been as peaceful as the one we have had today. That is why there are not so many things I would like to draw to a start, but there will of course be a wave of questions. That's what I'm betting on. I would just like to address the motion for a resolution tabled by what is known as the opposition. It is this united bloc of Social Democracy, the Enhedslisten, the Alternative, the Radical Left and the SF. There are at least two things I would like to draw attention to. The first thing we see here is that the government has not delivered the goods when it comes to its own four success criteria. May I not just say that the dry facts show that there are 38 000 more private jobs, 10 000 fewer on transfer income allocated 3.4 billion. kr. extra for health and the elderly, and that in May we had the lowest number of refugees who came to Denmark, since February 2012. I'm just saying for the record. Then it also says in this proposal for adoption that the Folketing invites the government to set a new course of cooperation broadly in the Folketing. If it had now been written that the Folketing calls on the government to continue the course of cooperation broadly in the Folketing, it would have been fine, but there is a new course. We are pursuing a course of broad cooperation. That is why I would like once again to thank all those who have helped to conclude the 38 agreements concluded by the government. The 30 of them have been concluded by a broad majority. That is the situation, and if some people are very interested, I can make up for the number of agreements that have been made. So, the Danish People's Party has been in 32. That's 84 percent. of the agreements entered into by the government. It's a height jumper, and I guess it's not unnatural. But the Social Democratic Party has been involved in 27 of the 36 agreements made by the government. SF has been in 18. The alternative has been in 10. And the alternative, by the way, was the style from day one. Maybe it was even day minus one. I can say that without revealing secrets. Someone may have thought about how a new finance minister could succeed in reaching an agreement after half an hour in the office. I wonder if we had talked a little about this during the discussions that led to the formation of government. However, this merely shows that it is a wrong picture to be drawn from this proposal for adoption when drawing up a picture of a non-cooperative government. We have a very broad cooperation. That is why I cannot recognise the wording of the proposal for adoption. Nor do I recognize it when Mrs Mette Frederiksen talks about the pointless block policy. I think there has been a great deal of cooperation in the Folketing. To be perfectly honest, I would say that it has sometimes been surprisingly large. This also applies to Mrs Mette Frederiksen's own party. An example of this is that the proposal on patients' rights, the right of investigation, the guarantee of treatment was adopted by a surprisingly broad majority. After all, it is said that there is more happiness in one transverse sinner than over 99 righteous ones, and so I would like to acknowledge that the Social Democrats voted in favour of the proposal, even though we have repeatedly heard the party speak against both in debates and in this Chamber. It was a surprise to me as well as to some Social Democrats. However, for those patients who are entitled to opt out of the waiting period, it was a very, very positive surprise. I have been pleased with the broad cooperation and hope that it can continue during the remaining parliamentary term. I am, of course, less pleased that there has been a tendency, at least when asked from one side of the House, to deal with the facts a little lightly. You could say no one, nobody forgotten, but now I choose to take out Mrs Lea Wermelin, who believes that the government has cut down in the municipalities. I just think we should stick to the facts. Despite a tight economy, the government has given the municipalities 0.5 billion. kr. more for service in the year 2016. 0.5 billion kr. more for service. Under the former Social Democratic government, municipalities could spend 3 billion. kr. less for service. 3 billion kr. less, 0.5 billion kr. More. That's the cut. That's not my word. That's the way it is. That's a fact. There's another fact question we need to address. We live in modern times when the debate is taking place both here in the Chamber and on social media. On the social media, if someone has dared to follow them during the day, you could among other things. read that Mr. Jens Joel thinks that I dress things up a little and that even the weather was better under former prime minister Anker Jørgensen. You can always discuss what good weather is. Maybe it's a bit of a matter of taste. If you are a leisure sailor, you would probably like a little breeze, if you are a farmer, you would like rain, at least at some times, and then dry weather, when it comes to harvesting. And kids love snow. I think the Danes, as they are most, prefer a beautiful sunny day. If you look at it I'm not an expert, but I've had people look at it you actually see that in the years when Anker Jørgensen was prime minister, there was an average of almost 1,500 hours of sunshine per year. In the years with which I have so far had the privilege of being prime minister, and I also count my last period of government, there have been about 1,700 hours of sunshine per year. Yeah, yeah. It's not that I personally take credit for it, but I just think we should have a fact-based debate. Then perhaps there is a serious point about it when you compare Anker Jørgensen's time with our time, and it is not so much that the sun shines a little more, but what is a little thought-provoking when you compare the periods is that since Prime Minister Anker Jørgensen's time Danish economy has grown by 70-80 percent. This has happened with an unchanged level of energy. It's kind of thought-provoking. Now the sun shines a little more, so you can pull a little more out of the solar heating systems, but that is not what has driven it. That really is a fantastic change. If you think back 34 years and where we were and compare with where we are today, you can see that we have been able to grow so much in wealth with the same energy consumption. Quite frankly, it is a common merit. Since Anker Jørgensen stopped being Prime Minister, there has been a government with the participation of the Social Democratic Party for 12 years. And there has been a government with the participation of the Left for 22 years. That's the way it is. During this period, Denmark has thus been raised in terms of energy efficiency and green conversion in a way that demonstrates that there is no contradiction here between growth and climate. I mention this because I tire of the picture that is being suggested that now we have a government that does not want the green transition. It's a picture that some are green and some are black. It is, of course, a common achievement that we have made this transition. But it is also a joint responsibility to ensure that it is also based on realism in the future. We have the challenge, and some have touched on the theme here today, that the way we have chosen to finance the green transition with the PSP, the special tax on companies and consumers • I believe that 60%. the tax is levied on the households; and does not go from 1 January 2017. It needs to be changed. There is basically the possibility that we open up the scheme and start sending tax money paid by Danish companies and Danish households into Europe. I think the Danes do not want that of us. They do not want their tax money and tax money to be sent out of the country. The second option is that we find another solution. We have the challenge of spending 70 billion over the next ten years. kr. We have the challenge that from the time we concluded the energy agreement that this expansion should take place until today, the bill has been 26.7 billion. kr. bigger than what we assumed. At the same time, the situation is that we have achieved our objectives. We agreed that renewable energy should take up 36%. That is what the then minister referred to as the most ambitious agreement in the world. Even if you reduce, as the government is proposing, to bring down the bill, we will hit a renewable share of 38%, which is more than what was provided for in the agreement that has now reached 26.7 billion. kr. More expensive than we predicted. That's why it's a bottom line that we have to solve this. We need to abolish the PRS tax, because if we do that, it also means that electricity will be cheaper, which increases competitiveness. It supports the green transition. It will be more advantageous to use electric heat pumps for heating instead of oil burners. This gives our industry a competitive edge so that we can get more growth going and thus create more prosperity. And, by the way, it's a bottom-up job. We have put a solution without prejudice on the table and have said that part of the solution must be to reduce the bill. That is also why the government has pointed out that it could not, as a starting point, build coastal offshore wind turbines. The situation is just that there is currently an invitation to tender. It expires on 1 September, which is why there is a window that closes shortly if you have to bring the bill down. I therefore hope, of course, that we can find a solution and a process for dealing with this matter, which will enable us to retain the possibility of reducing the bill for the green conversion. We can do that while maintaining a position as a leading climate country. Now the parliamentary year is nearing its end, but it is not holiday time yet. I say this to those who are not in this Chamber, who are bombarded every year on Facebook with these remarks that they are already going on summer holidays. I don't think any of us are planning that. Because the Folketing has a lot to deal with before. We need to have an ambitious reform of high school, which ensures even more professionalism in high school, which meets young people with expectations that promote social mobility, by saying at good notice that we are making professional demands which the primary school, the pupils and the parents must adapt to for the sake of children, later young people, later adults. We must complete the negotiations on the law of plans, which can give some freedom back to the municipalities we have made greater, and which also have a local democracy, which can take greater responsibility than what we are allowing them today. It will also create growth and development opportunities. We need to address PSP as a minimum in a way so that we do not lose the opportunity to reduce the bill. We must have agreed to buy new fighter planes, not to arm, not to disarm, but to ensure that Danish defence can continue to defend Denmark when the old aircraft are worn out and participate in international missions. And we need to finalise the municipal economic agreements. So there is still a lot to be achieved. But since this is the last time that I address the Folketing before the summer holidays, since I certainly do not plan to book time to come here without errand, I would like to take this opportunity to wish everyone a good summer, and when that time comes, and so it lasts something yet, I would also urge you to enjoy the extra hours of sunshine during this government, because in the autumn there is an important political agenda waiting on a positive basis. This is a positive starting point: increased employment, falling unemployment, a baby boom on the way. And that in itself is good. Interestingly, it is also possible to read that researchers explain the prospect of this baby boom that it is not least due to economic optimism. That's amazing. The sun shines, and the prospective parents are optimistic and give birth to children. They do not do so as never before, but there is the prospect that for the first time in a number of years we will have a birth rate of over 60 000. It is a good circle: falling unemployment, increasing employment, more Danish children. It's a positive start. Denmark is not in crisis, but it does not shake the fact that we who are here now have a responsibility to look forward. Because it should be so that when there is a prime minister here in 34 years' time and I can guarantee that it will not be me and look back, just as I now looked back briefly to the time when Prime Minister Anker Jørgensen left the government offices, one must be able to tell about the same leap in prosperity and welfare development. We have a responsibility, not to give the easy answers, but to provide the real answers needed to ensure that the growth that is underway can be increased, that the room for manoeuvre that has shrunk due to the fall of oil prices, the pressure for refugees and migration, is increased again so that we can develop our welfare societies. Those of us who are here today have a responsibility to ensure that in the future we have the right skills in our labour market, so that our companies, whether private or public, are not hindered by the absence of the right, well-trained workforce. We who are here today have a responsibility to design Denmark in such a way that it is attractive to invest in Denmark, create companies, watch them grow and flourish and not just sell them from when they are mature to it. That is all we have to do in the autumn. That is why I am looking forward to a little in the autumn, but first of all to finishing this collection, getting a high school agreement, a draft law agreement, an agreement on fighter planes, municipal economics agreements and getting the PSP addressed. With that, I would just like to end where I started by saying thank you for a long and a good and a peaceable debate in a good tone.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601220436	Now the Prime Minister would probably be surprised if I said that there were no brief comments, but there are a few individual ones. Mrs Mette Frederiksen from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601220447	How good it is that there is something to start by saying thank you for: the good weather and the cheerful pick-up on a gradually long debate. There is now something beating me in the PM's collection, because it is as if, when confronted with his own policy, the Prime Minister always gets in a bit of a bad mood, and there is really no reason for that. But everything else must be the same: if you want to transfer money from the country's municipalities to other activities, it must have a consequence. That is why some of us are opposed to the re-priority contribution. And when you want to reduce green ambitions, it must have a consequence for the green transition. I think it would be useful for the further debate to be continued, if only that the policy we are pursuing has consequences and that, of course, we cannot cut back either on welfare or on green conversion without it being important. I think that in many ways it has been a good debate today, and what the debate has been marked by is, in fact, a fairly broad awareness that Denmark is facing some crucial challenges, not least in terms of creating private jobs, ensuring higher growth and thus a positive development in our society. And now that we agree that we need jobs and skilled labour, why does the Prime Minister of the country really stick to spending money on top tax reliefs in the autumn instead of spending the money where it benefits the most?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601220615	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601220616	I am certainly not in a bad mood to be confronted with my policy, on the contrary, that is, I will be so happy. And especially if this happens in a rightful way, I am confirmed that my policy is also the right one. So I won't be in a bad mood about that. I am just attacking the fact that one thing is going on and one thing is that this is happening in this Chamber, where you might even have a little fun, but when we see what members of the public from the author's party name the social media, it's just distorting the truth. And that is why I just say quite quietly, and I repeat this: this year the municipalities have 0.5 billion. kr. more for service. When Mrs Mette Frederiksen was in government, the framework was reduced by 3 billion. kr. It's just a fact. I referred earlier to the green transition, that is to say that we are actually overcoming the ambitions we agreed on in the energy agreement. And that is why it is also responsible and realistic to adjust a little on the bill in a situation where we cannot charge the money in the way we assumed we could. With regard to top tax, I would say that it is clear from the government base that we have the ambition to do so, and this will also be a driving force for growth. However, I have to say that after the summer we will be presenting a comprehensive plan, a comprehensive estimate of how we will prioritise tax against room for manoeuvre and other things. Because, as I have said several times, top tax relief in itself cannot drive forward the growth we want, and therefore our focus is also on people with small labour incomes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601220753	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601220754	What is remarkable, however, is that the Prime Minister's words, at least in other contexts, are in fact repeated, that the money is few, that priority must be given and that there is not the possibility of knocking out arms as we knew it through the 00s, for example, where I also believe that when the history books are written, it can be seen that the money was used for wrong purposes. Since this is the case, should we not concentrate our efforts together to actually solve the problems that are, ensure that companies have access to a competent workforce, ensure that there can be a positive development of our welfare society, and support Production Denmark so that we can still export and have strong Danish companies? The reality is that if the money is spent on top tax incentives, there is simply no money for the other purposes. You can't do it all at the same time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601220845	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601220846	If the money is small, you can make an effort to get some more. And that is, of course, the ambition we have defined to ourselves and which we will now spend the summer preparing for an overall project of a plan for Denmark. What does the Danish economy look like in 2025 perspective? What decisions have to be taken to ensure that the few money can become more? Because I have no ambition to have 10 years on a narrow neck. I think it is much more interesting to look at what is possible to make adjustments that create more room for manoeuvre. And then, of course, there will be a discussion. The government will give its bid, and others will have a different choice of how to dispose of such a room of manoeuvre. How much should be invested in public consumption? And that, of course, is something. How much should be invested in growth, in other words in providing better framework conditions for business, including tax reform? We will present our proposals for this. I agree with the challenge of competence. That's one of them. the title of the trialogue discussions we have started, and I have the ambition that we will be able to land the next partial agreement in August.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601220959	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601221001	I'd like to stay on the same track. I hear the Prime Minister is getting a little merry about some numbers with a difference of minus 3 and plus 0.5. That's also really nice, because then we're all on the maths. It is almost going to sound as if there is a government here doing something really good for the close welfare, but that is not true. We will be faced with deterioration in kindergartens, schools and elderly care for our grandparents if nothing happens. That's one of them. because of the re-prioritisation contribution. It is also because there are many new citizens coming to Denmark; there are many new refugees fleeing murders in Syria and Iraq, and they come here, and it gives an extra bill out in the municipalities, which will be taken from close welfare if nothing happens. So what I would like to ask the Prime Minister is quite simple: is it reasonable for the bill to be sent again to those who have the most difficulty, those who most need the welfare of all of us? Or could it be time for the bill to be sent to some of those who already have a lot?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601221117	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601221118	I think what is needed is to look at how we can reduce the bill that Mrs Pernille Skipper is talking about. This is among other things. Therefore, that we have tightened the immigration policy quite vigorously, and that is why I welcome the fact that in May we have the lowest entry rates since 2012, because it goes without saying, of course, that if there are many people coming to Denmark who have no qualifications and who, from the outset, cannot find a foothold in the labour market, it puts pressure on the economy. Of course it does. And the money can't be used twice. That's why there's like three things in this solution. One is to get the number down. We are working hard on this, and it looks good at the moment, but it must be kept under control. The second is what we have agreed with the municipalities in a two-party agreement on how to give the municipalities more flexibility so that this task can be handled. This is also why extra money comes to the municipalities for housing, and that is why, when we last made the municipality economy agreement last year, an additional amount was set aside in 2016 to deal with this. And the third thing is to look at how we make this society grow something more. How do we get the cake to be cut to the municipalities, the regions, the state and to what the citizens are allowed to keep to themselves? That is why, after the summer holidays, we are launching a 2025 plan which would like to create a greater room for manoeuvre in the Danish economy and thus also a greater opportunity, if it is a political priority, to spend money on public spending.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601221250	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601221251	It may be that it is because I am getting a little tired, but it sounds almost as if the Prime Minister is promising that if there is any financial room for manoeuvre, it will go out to the close welfare of the municipalities and that extra money will then be sent that way. It sounds a little bit like that, but it may be that I'm dreaming. For even if there are fewer refugees we can then discuss whether it is at all realistic and whether we should not look after the people who come to us and who are on the run there is a great bill. Last time I checked it, KL estimated it was an extra cost of 2-3 billion. kr. Is it reasonable that, because there is war in Syria and Iraq, where there are terrible atrocities, it is the close welfare that has to pay? Why, though, will the government not compensate the municipalities for the extra cost, so we send the bill to the right place? So they are not being fully compensated.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601221350	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601221352	I do not know if Mrs Pernille Skipper can then perhaps explain to me afterwards where I find some money out of nothing, because there is the money there. If there is an alien pressure on Denmark, it has to be dealt with, and even if there are many refugees coming to Denmark, we do not get any more money. It sounds like there's a thought that we should make some kind of refugee tax or something like that that should then be sent out to some specific Danes who have a lot of money or whatever it may be. Otherwise, I don't know how to make up for it. We've done a lot. The integration service, which Mrs Pernille Skipper's party is opposed to, saves us 2 billion. kr., then you didn't have it, we had 2 billion. kr. less to do good with. If we increase the employment rate, we will free up 2.5 billion by 2020. kr. That is why it is also a question of creating room for manoeuvre. And yes, I can confirm that when we want more room for manoeuvre, it is in order to divide it between investments in close welfare, tax relief and public consumption opportunities. This does not mean that I have committed myself to how that money is to be distributed between municipalities, hospitals, i.e. the regions, and the state itself, but yes, I see that over the next ten years we have to get some money so that we do not have to manage narrownecks year after year, but that there is room for manoeuvre. After all, it is a political debate whether it is for schools, childcare, education, infrastructure, hospitals or for anything else, but first the money must be there.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601221532	I would like to appeal to the trained, older, experienced party presidents and others, including the Prime Minister, to try to help me keep to the speaking time. The sun has gone down, at least for today, and there are a lot of people who would like a brief comment on the Prime Minister, and I think we should try to pay tribute to that. We can best do that if we're all on time. The Prime Minister has the great extra service in here that there is a very large watch in front of him where he can see the time. I will bring it to the attention of the others when the time is up, and I will do so very quietly by standing up and then you can finish your sentence or finish your question. If it could be a deal I don't have to have it in writing then I would be really happy. The next one is sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601221618	Thank you. I'd like to give you a warning. I'd like to give that warning. It's important that the Prime Minister listens and doesn't just look at the clock. I still have time left... that the Prime Minister should be careful what he's running around saying. Now it came to light earlier that the Prime Minister had asked some officials in the Prime Minister's Office how many flagpoles there were in order to be able to flag with the Greenlandic and Faroese flags. Now I understand that the Prime Minister has asked for the number of hours of sunshine to be calculated. Well, what's next, the Prime Minister is gonna suddenly ask some officials to count? I can't tell. Will it be the fish in the sea or the birds flying across the country? It can provide a lot of employment, I can see that. But as long as it's a relocation job, so it happens with a base in Jutland or something, it'll be okay. What I really think is interesting, and the reason why I just took the floor in relation to the last duel here is that the Prime Minister has two points emphasised. One is that there is real growth in the public economy, that the municipalities this year have more money to do well with than they had last year. This contrasts with the fact that the Social Democrats had government power and there was minus growth in the municipalities. The second thing is that we are facing a lot of expenditure in relation to refugees and migrants who are pushing the economy, and I think that is important for everyone, even when we look into the future and see what we have of opportunities.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601221740	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601221741	I think there are officials who count the fish in the sea. Or I know there is. If you ask the fishermen, they are not always quite satisfied with the way they are counted, but we have people for that sort of thing. More seriously, I have the main comment that, of course, I agree with that. That is one of the reasons why the agenda I had otherwise set for the spring has been pushed in the autumn. Because we have to, and we have worked hard to put a stop to this alien issue. Because with the numbers we saw, and with the numbers that we still have in the machines, and until we feel safe knowing that this dampening of the entry that is taking place now has sat down, can you count it in? One has to say quite openly and it is a new recognition in relation to what some spoke of last summer ■ that those who come to Denmark arbitrarily do not spontaneously have the competences that are needed to make them financially benefice for Denmark. That is why it is pushing us, and that is why there are two parts to it. One is to get a few fewer, and the other is to equip us, so we have a room to resist.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601221856	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601221857	What is also important to keep in mind is that even if the government's desire to have the employment rate lifted from approx. 30% for non-western immigrants in Denmark to 50%. If we were to come true, we would have a total bill for Danish society, because that would not be enough. There are some who pretend that people pay the bill themselves because they get to work. But even if the success goals set up by the government are achieved, it is still a net bill that is delivered to the other Danish taxpayers. I just think it is important that everyone has that understanding and is aware of it when we look forward to the future and see what opportunities we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601221937	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601221938	But it's kind of the part about whether the glass is half empty or half full. Because you can also turn it around and say that when we figure out what the world looks like in 2, 4, 6, 8 years, we're counting on it based on what it looks like right now and here. That is why the situation is that if we can succeed in what is an ambition for us, namely to get people with a non-western background who come here as refugees or relatives together, in employment to the same extent as others with a non-western background who have been here for a long time, that is. Up to 50 percent, we'll have 2.5 billion. kr. extra in 5 years, that is 2.5 billion. kr. extra! That is why there is not one solution to this challenge, but the solution is to limit the number and to ensure that those who are here, after all, get into employment. These two things must go hand in hand.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601222023	Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601222029	Sometimes the imagery can run away a little, too, for me. I hadn't really considered the consequences of this with the Prime Minister as a welfare princess, especially not because I realized that when you read the fairy tale to the end, the prince has to kiss the princess alive, and despite my personal preferences I might not have imagined that it was there to end anyway. Having said that, I would also like to thank you for your cooperation during the first year. That is what I would call some kind of practice, and I am actually looking forward, as the Prime Minister said, to the fact that the summer will hopefully be over quickly, and we will come to that autumn, because it is not enough to think about these lists of who they are working with. I think that you should remember former Prime Minister Hilmar Baunsgaard's words that it is about what you cooperate on, and if we are to be a little serious, Denmark is in a growth crisis, which is why it is important that we find each other and resolve the problems that Denmark faces. That is why I am pleased to hear that the Prime Minister will not settle for top tax relief.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601222204	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601222206	Thank you. We've been practicing, it was said after this graphic description of what the end goal was. I can deny that, but we do not. But now that we're going to be family, I'd like to ask Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll to thank her husband for what I had to understand, that is, the obvious recognition that the government has granted tax relief to the Ammitzbøll family without the involvement of the Liberal Alliance, and it shows that we actually have a level of ambition, so say thank you at home. Then I can just confirm what level of ambition I have in relation to the autumn. It will be concrete when we reach it. Denmark has a good starting point. We're growing. The last figures also show that things are moving forward, but it can go a little faster, and we must ensure that we keep the cadence with the countries with which we normally compare ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601222316	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601222322	It is progressing, yes, but unfortunately we are also downgrading growth estimates, as was done under the previous government, and we of course find that a pity, but I am glad to hear the ambitions, and I promise the Prime Minister that if we find each other in the autumn in relation to growth and tax ambitions, I will not reveal anything from the negotiations that have been before and, secondly, I will ensure that there is no death kiss.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601222401	The Prime Minister,
ParlaMint-DK_20160601222403	I'm gonna go back to what's been a key word for me all day long and say thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601222410	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601222413	Thank you. It almost sounds like there's a need for a green knight in this adventure too, and I can tell you that a green knight can also find out how to kiss quite well. In relation to the green agenda, which I could almost hear had been resolved per year. Magic: that we had become more energy-efficient over the last many years. This has just happened because we have been ambitious because we have been betting because we have researched. That is why I come back to my question to the rapporteur of the Left earlier on the level of ambition. Because if we are to achieve the same progress in energy efficiency in the future, it is of course important that we continue to research, continue to develop, continue to invest in this area. So far, the government has had to cut down quite a bit on this area, precisely research in this area, so can the Prime Minister reveal a little bit about whether there will be an increased ambition precisely in terms of development, so that in 34 years' time we can say that we have become even more energy efficient?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601222523	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601222524	Well, I'm not saying it's come by magic. It has come about through hard political work and not really with the alternative of the kind, has it? For it has come through a generation, carried by the governments Denmark has had, which have been characterised by either the participation of the Social Democrats or the participation of my own party, and so it will be forward-looking. It has to be hard work. I want Denmark to be a research nation. That is why we also live up to the Barcelona objective of spending 1%. of our GDP on research. We had the basic conditions when we came to the table in contrast to the picture painted by Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr about all the good that we took over that we did a check-up that showed that things weren't connected, that you were completely out sniffing the limits of what deficit you have to have in relation to EU rules, and that is why we had to adjust in. But surely we have a forward-looking ambition to be a research nation. It is also about focusing our research resources. That's one of them. Therefore, that Denmark is part of Mission Innovation, the Obama-driven initiative that we signed at the Paris Summit, and which, as such, obliges us to have a green research ambition. We intend to live up to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601222647	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601222648	It sounds like I'm really looking forward to seeing the financial bill from the government after the summer break when the fall comes. But can't I explain these ambitions? 'Cause I'm really curious about them. We used to have a government that talked about us being fossil-free, and now we are talking about fossil independence. For me, it's a loss of ambition. Is this a complete misread of government policy? Have you simply changed words because you wanted to use a little more letters when you wrote a press release, or is there something behind this change in the concept of fossil-free to fossil independence?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601222729	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601222729-2	In other words, the word fossil-free interpreted right to its extreme edge would mean that one did not achieve ambition if one could find one lawn mower somewhere in a colonial garden neighborhood that was driven on petrol. You can have that ambition, but I don't think we're gonna make it around the corner. However, independence from fossil fuels is not an easy but a more realistic ambition. We have set up an Energy Commission, and that is one of them. to see how we do this more cost-effectively. Because it can't be that just because it's green, it's good, no matter what it costs. It is even better if we can make it go hand in hand, so it is green and sustainable and economically viable. And that is the discussion the government has initiated by setting up an Energy Commission.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601222831	Sir. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601222832	I think there is such a rather dull tendency that the Prime Minister will not stand by the fact that the priorities that have been made have some consequences. It is then a decision made by the government that it was more important to have a housing job scheme or with lower registration fees than it was to invest in education and research. It has nothing to do with a cashier's checkup. It is therefore a concrete political priority that has been made to spend the money on one, rather than on the other. Exactly like saying to the municipalities: We have decided that you will spend more money on the elderly, and therefore you will have to save on other welfare areas. We call it a re-priority contribution. I would simply urge you to stand by your policy and acknowledge it, instead of trying to suck it off on something else or say that it has no consequences at all and has no significance whether you drop some windmills or something in our green conversion. Stand by the priorities that are being made. Otherwise we will have a dull and sad political debate without the honesty it deserves.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601222933	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601222934	I stand by my priorities completely. I would just like to say that the starting point was also that the priority exercise was more necessary and a little harder than we had anticipated. Because it turned out that it did not keep water with so-called room for manoeuvre, as Mr. Morten Østergaard's government went to the polls. After all, it did not keep water with the picture that was drawn of how much money lay there and waited for easy priorities because you could spend some new, fresh money. That's why the room was narrower, you might say. And that's where we've prioritised. I fully admit that we have cut back on development aid and instead do something more at home and invest in Danish hospitals and Danish patients. And I fully admit that we have created a green housing job scheme which allows people, as they are most, to have a realistic opportunity to invite a craftsman inside and pay the bill in a white way. I completely agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601223028	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601223029	It is always easiest to stand by the costs, but what I actually asked for was that the consequences for the places where the money was found were also recognised. I think that would be conducive to the discussion. But I would like to use my second question here to look a little forward. Because, at one point, I have said a long time ago, to be honest with the electorate, that I thought it was necessary to discuss retirement age again if we are to be able to afford everything I think is important. At that time, the Prime Minister called it masochism, and in the election campaign I said that I thought it was more important to lower the tax on labour than to maintain the tax freeze and thus lower the tax on housing. The Prime Minister rejected that blankly. I would just like to ask: is it the case that now that the seriousness of the situation has taken place and we are about to discuss the major issues in a 2025 perspective, we can count on all these issues being discussed and, like this, we are putting the issue of masochism behind us and rejecting things in advance so that we have an open path to play?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601223131	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601223132	There's nothing wrong with masochism. Now, of course, we have had a debate here today which has shown, on other points, how liberal we are, so you can have the inclinations you want. There's no problem with that. More seriously, I can say that I reserve the right to be able to play out with what the government thinks is right and what I think is needed in Denmark. That is also why last week I held a summit at Marienborg. Pelle Dragsted, who himself participated, called the millionaire summit; I don't know if he has a secret side occupation, we others haven't heard of how many parties such as Pelle Dragsted. L.O. and 3F... and some of them were in it. Because I think what we need is to talk to each other about what challenges Denmark really has. I think that is the first prerequisite, which must be understood and accepted by everyone before it can be dealt with. And at the stage we are at now, I do not rule out anything, and out of it you cannot read that we are proposing certain things.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601223239	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601223242	I've been sitting a little long with a picture of the Prime Minister in pink princess clothes, but there have been other party leaders in green turds, so why not? But now that the PM's in pink princess clothes, we might as well dance a little. And at the moment we are at least dancing in the negotiations on the Train Fund DK. The government has called for negotiations on the time model and the Train Foundation DK, and the Prime Minister himself said in 2009 that the time model was a good and ambitious plan for Denmark, which would make it easier to get between cities. It just remained with the words of the 2009 traffic agreement. In 2013 S-R-SF succeeded in creating a train fund for Denmark and an hour model with not only an hour between the major cities, but also with a much better connection to the major cities, i.e. in the traffic agreement with Dansk Folkeparti and Enhedslisten. the upgrading of regional trains to the major cities. Now we are debating, and I am in favour of the Train Fund DK, but what I want to know is that it is an absolutely crucial question as to whether we are going to get to the end of these negotiations. Will the Left say yes or no to the whole Train Fund DK?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601223400	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601223401	Well, the Train Foundation DK is empty. I mean, 151⁄2 billion is missing. kr. In relation to what was expected. Full respect for having sat and built a colossal on clay feet, but the clay feet have fallen off. There's 151⁄2 billion missing. kr. Now Mrs Mette Frederiksen tried today to draw a picture of the fact that it was not bad at all, namely that it cost only 200 million. kr. a year, you could have it all. That's not true. It is the case that if the initial level of ambition is pursued, capital expenditure is 1 billion. kr. in 2017 rising to 31⁄2 billion. kr. in 2025. That cannot be financed by 200 million. kr. a year. I mean, 200 million. kr. over 10 years is 2 billion. kr., and 200 million. kr. over 15 years is 3 billion. kr. There's 151⁄2 billion missing. kr. The money's not there.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601223456	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601223457	Now the Prime Minister, just as I do, knows that the Ministry of Finance has replied that it is precisely 200 million. kr. over a number of years during the period in which the Fund is to be financed. My guess is that the Prime Minister has read the reply from the Ministry of Finance and, of course, does not overrule the Minister for Finance. It also says in the agreement that if the oil money is not enough, we will find it in the traffic advice room. And as the Prime Minister knows, because the Prime Minister has once been Minister of Finance, there is quite a lot of room for traffic every year. However, what I am concerned with, and which I really would like an answer from the Left, is the local connections, namely whether the Left is not concerned that Esbjerg can get engineers from Odense and the prerequisite for it is that there is shorter traffic time and whether the Left is not concerned that Herning should in future be part of a central rail network, but that instead of changing in Vejle. You can risk getting even longer for Thisted. And it's not a fun excursion at the moment, because it's over 5 hours of public transport. Isn't the left occupied with the local sections out there in West Jutland?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601223610	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601223611	Well, we just have to get those things right. It may be a little technical and a little boring here, but the 200 million. kr. is the effect on durability. It is like the endless prospect of investing these many billions over a number of years: how does it burden what is called sustainability in our fiscal policy? You can't pay for your investment tomorrow with some kind of endless perspective. That is why the short context is that 151⁄2 billion is missing. kr. They are not there, and then priority must be given. And we want to electrify Danish railway lines. It is also good to bring down the journey time, but we are, for example. against the idea of building a Vejle Fjord bridge for many billions of dollars in one minute or another to reach down to 1 hour. We are against this. I also think that some of those engineers are driving cars and want us to be able to afford to invest in some road construction. Moreover, they are probably also pleased that the registration fee has fallen so that they can afford to buy a decent car.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601223713	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen from IA.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601223716	Thank you very much, and thank you to the Prime Minister, who is also Minister of the Commonwealth. I would like to take this opportunity to ask you about the publication of the report on defence tasks in the Arctic in the future, because this is an analysis which has been going on for a long time. The government has promised in the past that the report would be published at the end of May, and the Prime Minister has promised, only a few weeks ago during the Community debate, that the report would be published before the summer. So my specific question is: when can we expect the report to be published?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601223755	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601223756	Thank you. It is true that that report has been going on for a long time. It was also delayed because of parliamentary elections. You cannot point the finger at some of that, it is just a reality that this is the case. We are working hard to complete the work, and what I said last time still applies, i.e. before summer. And what's summer? I think, if you break up with the almanac, that the first summer day is June 1st, and that is today, but before the summer holidays of the schools. So in the course of this month it is my firm belief that we can count on that report to come.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601223831	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601223832	Thank you very much. The IA wanted to move from a military focus to a more civilian focus. We would also like to see more involvement of the local population and strengthening the search and rescue response in Greenland. So I would like to hear: what can you expect from this report? Can the Prime Minister give some hints in relation to what direction it is moving in?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601223858	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601223859	Yes, now the joy of expectation is the greatest, and the report is not yet there, but it is clear that with search and rescue it is of course a subject that needs to be addressed. I would also like to say that the whole debate on how to involve the civilian population seems to me to be a major one. That is also what we have been working on in Denmark, both about the Home Guard and the civilian preparedness, by the way. And there, I would say, and now I'm pre-empting things... that there must be something you can learn from and also implement in Greenlandic society. However, the Minister for Defence will, before we go on summer holidays, publish the report and then we look forward to a good dialogue on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601223950	Mrs. Aleqa Hammond from Siumut.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601223952	The National Audit Office made a very sharp criticism of the lack of sea survey in Greenland and of the lack of charts. It's almost three years ago. Later, the Danish Government and the Greenland Government have concluded a cooperation agreement to ensure that charts are delivered by the end of 2018. Now we learn that the Danish Government cannot live up to its cooperation agreement with Greenland. Can the Prime Minister inform us of what will happen in the future? And what will the Prime Minister do to live up to an agreement signed with the Greenland authorities?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601224032	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601224033	After all, we discussed this two weeks ago, when I was given the same question and probably gave the same answer that I am going to give. I have also had the opportunity to discuss this with Mr. Kim Kielsen. Because it is true that in connection with the relocation of the Spatial Data Board we have had a significant number of resignations, which means that we have a temporary capacity problem. This is the work of the minister responsible, to whom further questions can also be addressed, as hard as possible to try to counteract the best possible by drawing on external competences and other things. That is the situation, and I have also had the opportunity to turn around and discuss it with the President-in-Office of the Council.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601224115	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601224115-2	The Taksøe report says that Denmark is about to act as Arctic great power. In that case, I would like to ask the Prime Minister about the assessment of the Taksøe report and what that will mean for Greenland's relations. Does the Prime Minister call for cooperation with the Greenland authorities on the further progress? And if so, will the Illulissat Declaration be at the heart of foreign policy issues in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601224143	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601224146	After all, the report by our Foreign Secretary, Ambassador Taksøe-Jensen, has been taken down and discussed. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and Defence have also been on committees. The government's thoughts are among other things. to follow the recommendation for a foreign and security policy strategy. We are working on this at the moment, and we will unfold it for the Folketing. So this is also a theme to which we will return in the coming years.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601224221	Sir. Nicolai Wammen of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601224222	The Prime Minister said that he is looking forward to the summer holiday, and I would like to do so, but it is also very telling that the Prime Minister has looked at holidays, relaxation, because what we have seen in the past year is a Mañana Mañana government, which simply pushes the big decisions ahead of it in the autumn. One of the great things that is on the agenda there is when it comes to implementing the room for manoeuvre that may be provided for in the 2025 plan. If you look at the government base, you can see that the government is planning to lower the top tax. That is why my question to the Prime Minister is actually very simple: will the plan that the government will present in the autumn before the negotiations that will then begin include a concrete proposal for top tax relief?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601224328	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601224329	I thought there was a foreign translation of the name of the former government here, because what Mañana Mañana is going to come up with tomorrow is certainly not something we have invented, on the contrary. We work daily, and I have expressed no pleasure in summer holidays. I wish the Danish Parliament a happy summer holiday, I will continue to work, and that is one of them. to prepare a concrete proposal. And, yes, of course, it is the Government's ambition to present a proposal for a plan for Denmark that complies with the government basis, just as on all other points we are complying with the government basis. It may of course be an innovation, I admit, but that is how we are arranged. We feel very committed to what we went to the elections on, and we have written into our government basis, and we intend to present it to the Danish Parliament. I cannot therefore guarantee that it is a condition for a minority government that there is a majority in the Folketing that breaks out in spontaneous applause and says that what the government is proposing they are buying. I'm not that naive. But, of course, we will play out in accordance with what is our political ambitions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601224444	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601224444-2	It is of course interesting that the Prime Minister says that it will be included in the concrete proposal that is being put forward, but then the Prime Minister also says that he cannot guarantee that it will be implemented. So I have another very simple question: can the Prime Minister imagine an agreement that does not contain top tax concessions if a majority in this Parliament is prepared to make such an agreement with the Prime Minister, so that instead of being able to use the forces to ensure welfare and create private jobs? Is that an option? In other words, should an agreement, in the view of the Prime Minister, include top tax concessions, or can one imagine an agreement that does not?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601224532	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601224533	I would like to take up the list of wise rapporteurs who have said here today that we should not come up for negotiations with ultimate demands. This applies to parties, and the government also comes from a party. You have to show up with a lot of ambition. It will be completely premature in a situation where we have not yet presented what the perspective really looks like, that is, how much money there is, what it takes to get some more, how they should be given priority, and then stand here and define some red lines in relation to an agreement. We will present an initiative that meets the government's own ambitions, just as we do in all other matters, and we will, of course, fight parliamentary with peaceful weapons to get the most out of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601224619	Sir. Benny Engelbrechtsen from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601224624	Not to correct the President, but my name is Benny Engelbrecht, just to get it right. I would like to continue with the thread that Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr raised in her question, namely the question of the Train Fund DK. There are two challenges for the government. One is that you are not part of the Train Fund DK, and the other is that you have an investment challenge in relation to when you can liquidate various investments. In her rapporteur's speech, Mrs Frederiksen addressed a concrete solution to how to find the necessary funding for the Train Fund DK. What I just have to ask the Prime Minister to confirm is that the Ministry of Finance has calculated the lasting effect at 200 million. kr. I would like to say a few words about the Commission's proposal for a regulation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601224714	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601224716	However, we cannot make investments tomorrow, with reference to the effect that billions of investments have on what is called sustainability. You can't do that. The money has to be there when you spend it. They must, and there is no room, and there is no advice that is missing 15.5 billion. kr. By the way, it's quite right as Mr. Benny Engelbrecht says the government isn't in that deal. We are not, and that is why we could sit back and say that we are simply putting forward our draft budget with our bid for what is going on and what is not going on, but we just think that the right thing to do is to try to find a solution between those parties which are a majority outside the government, which has an old agreement, the prerequisites of which are broken.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601224808	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601224810	I know that it is hot today and that it is just before we have to go over to tagging all tweets with hashtag lummertweet from here, but I do think it is a little laissez fair that the Prime Minister is not even aware that no concrete proposals have actually been made for further work on the Togfonden DK, so that it will also be possible to see that the Left might be involved in this. And, as I have said, I must ask the Prime Minister once again to confirm that the Ministry of Finance has not actually calculated that what is missing is lastingly 200 million. kr. a year.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601224852	Then I would like to congratulate Mr. Benny Engelbrecht for both keeping time. Thank you so much. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601224858	I am repeating myself a little because we cannot finance anything tomorrow with reference to some lasting effect. The situation is that with the level of ambition agreed by a majority outside the government, 1 billion will have to be invested. kr. in 2017 increasing to 3.5 billion. kr. in 2025. Year by year, a billion dollars. You can't finance that by finding 200 million. kr; i.e. 200 million. kr. per year up to 2025 is 2 billion. kr. You can't even build half a Vejlefjord bridge for that. That is why, if we are to be serious, we have to look at what we were supposed to build, on which we would like to be involved, and if it could end up with the government being able to accede to the agreement, that would be fine. It is currently being negotiated, and I therefore have the best wishes for it to end happily, and that is why I have no ambition to stand and sharpen the rhetoric. I think it is appropriate for these matters to be discussed further in the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601225005	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601225008	Thank you. This morning the Prime Minister mentioned the seven challenges he saw that Denmark was facing. Among them, there was no parallel agreement between Denmark and the EU on Europol's participation. Perhaps that is not so surprising either, because if you read the collection note that the government itself presented to the European Committee meeting on Friday, you can read that the European Commission describes the seven outstanding issues with Turkey in relation to visa liberalisation. You mention two requirements as being impossible to meet, and then there are five requirements which you believe can be met within the time limit laid down, which is therefore 1 July. Among the five requirements that can be met before 1 July is the negotiation of an operational cooperation agreement with Europol. It may then seem a little paradoxical to the Danes who are sitting at home and have been told by the Prime Minister that it will be difficult, and by Donald Tusk, that it may be impossible to get a parallel agreement with Denmark that Turkey will be able to have an operational cooperation agreement with the EU on Europol participation within a month and a half. What does the Prime Minister think of that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601225123	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601225124	Well, I could easily have extended that list of autumn tasks to more than seven, and among them is the negotiation of a parallel agreement home. This is a well-known challenge, and that is why I did not give priority to lifting it up, but tried to focus on some new challenges that we need to address. We must have a parallel agreement as far as possible, and we are working hard on that. I know that the questioner is touring around with the view that we are doing some theater. Now I revealed earlier that I played some children's theater once, but I've long since left it behind me, so I haven't had the talent at all. It is thus in all silence that it is not a simple matter, for many reasons. It is legally supercomplicated because Denmark is a member of the European Union, and then we want to get an agreement on something that we have decided positively that we will not be part of. It is legally complicated, and it separates Denmark from Norway and, moreover, Turkey as a third country from the EU systems. It is also politically complicated. It is also complicated in a situation where the European institutions have tasks to do with both ears. But it doesn't shake the fact that I work hard for it, and my ambition is that in the autumn, because that's what's deadline, that is, before we hit Christmas, we need to clarify this, otherwise we're going out of Europol on 1 May 2017, and we need to avoid that. And, by the way, I think we agree on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601225301	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601225302	I must now confess that I believe the Prime Minister is a very talented comedian. I think we have seen that today, but also in connection with the Prime Minister's visit to the White House at Barack Obama. I just have to deal with the principle of this question again: would the Prime Minister not agree that it is paradoxical that the European Commission is saying to Denmark that it might be impossible to have a parallel agreement on Europol, whereas it is written about Turkey's ability to have an operational cooperation agreement, that is to say a parallel agreement on Europol participation, that it will be possible to achieve this within a month? It is paradoxical, and the Danes cannot understand that. So there's gotta be somebody here who's wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601225346	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601225346-2	At least I'm not wrong. In other words, a majority voted no on 3 December, and as the debate went on, it was with guarantees that the author's own party was given that one could easily vote no because one could stay in Europol fine; it was a walk in the park. And I have one ambition and only one ambition, and that is to try to get a parallel agreement in place. We're working on that. But it's not that simple. Well, we're a member of an organization with 28 countries. There is a European Parliament, there is a Commission which is a Council, and it is everyone who needs to be activated to get it in place. There is a legal challenge, there is a political challenge, and we are working on that. And I work hard for it. Because my ambition is that before we hit the turn of the year, before we hit Christmas, we need to clarify this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601225441	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601225443	Thank you. In his first speech today, the Prime Minister said that it is essential to make an effort to ensure that as many people as possible receive education and that we have equal opportunities, equal access to education. And I totally agree with the Prime Minister on that. One of the elements that helps to create equal opportunities for education is, of course, our SU. This is among other things. The SU system, which means that education, even longer education, is also an opportunity for those who do not have a father or a mother who has a lot of money. And that is why I am very concerned when I hear proposals to cut back on the SU, to remove the SU on the candidate part of a university degree. I would like to know whether the Prime Minister can give a guarantee to the Danish students and to all the young people who are about to embark on an education that this government is not cutting back on the SU, for example. to get money to lower the top tax again?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601225557	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601225558	Well, I am not the mind to stand here a few months before we present a plan that will both illuminate Denmark's challenges and Denmark's opportunities, and pour cement beyond anything else I am not. From this one cannot, like the Enhedslistens propaganda machine, set in motion and spread the happy message that now he has stood there and removed the SU or something like that it is not with it at all. But it is simply unwise. This is also due to the fact that there is at least one challenge we have to look at quite openly around the SU, and it is the increasing abuse from people coming to Denmark to read or perhaps rather apologize, I say it frankly • lukewarmer on our SU system. We can see that an increasing proportion of our SU is being spent on foreign students, and there we obviously have to go in and look at: is it traffic that can be brought to an end? So to stand and throw cement beyond the SU system we have would in every way be unwise. I can promise that when we present our plan in the autumn, we will clearly be able to see whether this is the case or whether it is not the case that the SU is an element of some of the solutions we are pointing to.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601225724	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601225725	I am not talking about foreign students, Prime Minister, I am talking about Danish students. And I actually think that our SU system is such a fundamental element of our welfare system that it would have been most appropriate if you had plans to reduce the SU, for example. by removing the SU on the candidate part, had told that kind of thing before a parliamentary election. I think there are many who are worried when they hear the Prime Minister answer with as much wool in his mouth as there is the answer here. I have two questions. The first is, and I give the Prime Minister a second chance: could a guarantee be given to Danish students that there will be no cuts on their SU? The second is: Did the Left tell anything before the election that consideration was given to cutting down on Danish students' SU?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601225819	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601225820	Calm down, there's an SU settlement, and we're not running out of a settlement. This also means that if we were to have the idea of proposing some changes and we cannot agree on it in the whole circle that is behind the SU, we cannot put it through during this parliamentary term. I mean, it's so banal. So calm down. I agree that an SU system is a good thing. We have, and it is very generous, two or three times as high a level as what we see in Sweden and Norway, where they also have social mobility. I belong to a generation that may in fact be the generation that has moved and now I am not talking about myself most significantly in relation to their parents. It was with a completely different SU system than what we have now, and with parental dependency and all sorts of things. And it's just to say that we have to be careful I've also seen that some American scientists have been out in the debate here recently that everything doesn't just become simplistic for certain solutions to be what works and you adjust them, then everything falls apart. However, as I have said, after the summer holidays, we are presenting a comprehensive, well thought-out proposal for a plan for Denmark that will ensure that Denmark is also a rich country in the future, and that also includes ensuring that our youth gets the right education. And, of course, they can't get that without the SU.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601225947	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601225949	Praise the Prime Minister for a humorous speech. My question is about border controls. When I was a boy, my father took me to the border, and there were both officers, and there was a border station, and it was all very safe. As a young man, when I was taking the train home from Germany, there were border guards on the train, and you came back across the border by car, there were also officers. I told my daughter recently, and she looked at me and asked: Couldn't we get it back, Dad? And then I said, yes, but that requires the Prime Minister to be on board. Now, of course, we have the Prime Minister in the Chamber, and that is why I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether it was not time to reinstate the good old border controls, the permanent border controls that we knew before 2001. It prevents crime, it prevents illegal immigration, and then it earns itself back quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601230051	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601230052	Yeah, well, when I was a kid, we had boundaries, and then we kept in line. And when I got a little bigger, actually grown up, I remember a trip to Prague, where half the family had to take two extra nights on the wrong side of the border because they had forgotten their passports. When my family didn't rejoice, it's so nice that there's passport control. That's how you can look at things differently. I am in favour of freedom of movement. It has made Denmark richer, it has made Europe richer, it is something we are forgetting right now and here. Then there's that alien pressure, and that's why we need borders, and we have to keep them as long as it's necessary. But basically it is a good idea that we can move goods across borders. It has helped to make Denmark richer, it has helped to make Europe richer. It is annoying for the development of the metropolitan area that commuters need extra travel time to and from work to show passports in what has been a Nordic passport union for nearly 60 years. I do not want a permanent border with Sweden to be concrete now. On the contrary, I want us to be able to normalise things so that you can get on a train in Copenhagen and drive to Malmö or vice versa and do your job without being met with control and extra travel time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601230224	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601230225	It's a tale that you sat in line when there was border controls. My father worked in Germany. It was very rare for him to be in line. The pressure on foreigners will continue over the coming decades. It will not slow down, it will deteriorate further. And then I can assure the Prime Minister that goods also crossed the border before 2001. So was it not time to get us out of the Schengen Agreement so that we could have permanent border controls? That would be good for all of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601230257	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601230258	Well, I don't agree with that. There are some things we take for granted. Anyway, Denmark is a small country. We have created our wealth and our wealth by dealing with others. We have an interest in participating in an active and open community. Then we also have an interest in taking care of ourselves. And there it is that it is a balance between the external border and the internal border. And I fully agree that if Europe cannot find a way of controlling the external border, then we have to have internal borders. That is also why we have border controls. I completely agree with that. Today we have announced that it will be extended by 1⁄2 years. But that is not the way I want it to be. I would much, much rather, have the rest of Europe adopt Danish views and we closed Europe off, because then we could have freedom of movement between ourselves. I think it is a loss of welfare that the freedom of movement that has been in the Nordic countries throughout my lifetime, that is, where you could go to scout camp in Norway without having a passport, is gone. It's a loss of welfare that it's disappeared. I wish we could get it back, but the premise and that part of it we agree on is that Europe is learning to look after itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601230418	The last brief remark goes to Mr Beazley. Rasmus Prehn, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601230423	I am glad to have the floor, because I would like to thank the Prime Minister very much for the good mood, the summer mood that was shown on the platform before. After all, it is a real pleasure to experience almost a sun king with a self-confidence that simply beamed right to the bedroom windows of the citizens, where it created fertility and baby boom. It's a real pleasure. But when you look at the Danish railroad, the situation quickly becomes somewhat more weather-bite in it, and there I would like to hear about something from the Prime Minister. Now that after the track work, people have been waiting for Nyborg Station and that the driver is late again and is on his way in a taxi from Odense Station to Nyborg, and the radio says that the government will drop the Togfonden DK, doesn't the Prime Minister think that it will cause the total fertility in the train coup to fall?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601230526	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601230527	Now I'm not particularly in demand for fertility in train coups. It is therefore a very open-minded debate that we are having today, and I am in favour of baby boom and all sorts of things, but it can be done in private. But there's the thing about the railroad operation and the sex drive, isn't there? But more seriously, it is not the case that we are opposed to investment in trains and railways. Well, we're not. We just have the realistic approach to investing with money that you have and not with someone you don't have. That is why our approach is that we should not start with what really promises immediately and where the money goes the longest. We are in favour of electrification, but we are not in favour of pumping up investments for which there is no economy. We do not want to invest a billion dollars in a new Vejlefjord bridge, which people who live there do not want to have, and which means that even if they found the money, they cannot be spent on anything else. In other words, we believe that, alongside an efficient rail system, there is also a need for us to have room to invest in roads in the future. I would like to see money expand the E45, I would like to see a perspective where we could build a Jutlandian growth motorway, and therefore I will not be involved in a number of years, which are incalculable, to tie any available investment crown into a very, very square ambition that if it is 1 hour, then it is good, and if it is 1 hour and 8 minutes, then it is no good.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601230707	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601230708	All I need to know is the Prime Minister's priorities. We are here with a note from the Ministry of Finance explaining that it would be possible if it were to be done to meet the challenge that exists with the Train Fund DK. So what this is all about is that the government should tell the citizens who sit, among other things. in Nyborg, waiting for the train to arrive, whether you are prepared to invest in the rail system of the future, or whether you are not prepared to invest in it. That is really what this is all about. It is about a position on what we want with the future of rail operations. And if the government opposes the money in the Togfonden DK, then in principle there is no room for the electrification expressed by the Prime Minister. What is the government's position on this? What is the ambition? Do you want to invest in the future or do you not want to?
ParlaMint-DK_20160601230756	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601230757	I mean, is the government against the money in the Train Fund DK? Not particularly, but they're just not there. I mean, they're not there. It will be very circular: you have said a fund and it is there and the money comes from the North Sea, and the money does not come there, and then you keep talking about a fund with some money. 15.5 billion is missing. kr. Then we can't use them. Then we can spend some other money, that is, of course you can. I totally agree with that. If you say: forget it, the money is not there, we find someone else, you tie your hands and feet and you don't have a bent penny to do anything else for. I'm just saying that we want to invest in railways. We did the last time we were in government. I myself negotiated the infrastructure agreement in 2009, the most ambitious in the history of Denmark: 100 billion. kr. We would like to do so, but we would like to have the opportunity in the future, if there is a penny available, not to have tied us to the fact that it is all going on rail. At some point we would like to be able to expand the E45. At some point we would like to make better roads in the connection to Kalundborg, which supports Novo. We would like to create a growth motorway in Jutland. We can't put it all on some idea that now there's just going to be trains and they're going to have to drive in 1 hour. So we want to invest in trains, but not with money we don't have.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601230911	Thank you. Then I would like to make a service announcement: the Prime Minister managed to keep to the time five times, the rapporteurs managed to keep to the time nine times, and I thank those who succeeded. Then I would like to thank the Prime Minister. I should like to know if there are any more who wish to speak. That does not seem to be the case. Then the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601230939	There are two proposals for adoption. Motion for a resolution (Doc. V 81 by Kristian Thulesen Dahl (DF), Jakob Ellemann-Jensen (V), Simon Emil Ammitzbøll (LA) and Søren Pape Poulsen (KF), and a vote can be taken now. We shall conclude the vote. In favour of voting 59 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 56 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 81 adopted. This brings us to the motion for a resolution. V 80 by Mette Frederiksen (S), Pelle Dragsted (EL), Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT), Morten Østergaard (RV) and Pia Olsen Dyhr (SF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160601231044	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday, 2 June 2016, at 3 pm. 10:00. I refer you to the agenda, which appears on the Danish Parliament's website.
