ParlaMint-DK_20161115130019	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews and we just need a little quiet in the room: Foreigner, Integration and Housing Minister (Inger Støjberg): Bill no. L 82 (Proposal for a Law amending the law on foreigners and the Law on withholding tax. Carolina Magdalene Maier (ALT) and Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT): Motion for a resolution No. B 23 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on making the Code of Conduct against the Sharing of Violatory Material compulsory in the country's upper secondary education and in primary education). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20161115130128	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are three proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 8 by Marlene Harpsøe (DF), Hans Andersen (V), Joachim B. Olsen (LA) and Rasmus Jarlov (KF), and voting is possible. Has everyone voted? In favour of 54 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 53 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 8 is adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 6 by Finn Sørensen (EL), Torsten Gejl (ALT) and Karsten Hønge (SF) and proposals for adoption no. V 7 by Leif Lahn Jensen (S) and Sofie Carsten Nielsen (RV) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115130240	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled. Motion for a resolution (Doc. V 9 by Jens Joel (S), Søren Egge Rasmussen (EL), Christian Poll (ALT), Martin Lidegaard (RV) and Pia Olsen Dyhr (SF), and voting is possible. Has everyone voted? I will have to close the vote soon. I mean, this isn't gonna work! Has everyone voted now? Some say that we should vote 'no'? Have we voted 'no'? It should be done properly, even if you cannot keep stalling. in writing. - 54 (S, EL, ALT, RV, SF and 1 (LA) (by mistake)) voted against 55 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 9 is rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115130515	There must be quiet in the hall! There is absolutely no peace in the Chamber, and we must put on the first rapporteur. Please calm down in the hall. I shall suspend the sitting in a moment if there is no silence in the Chamber. We must respect the first rapporteur, and that applies to everyone. I'll postpone the meeting in a moment. If you are not calm in the Chamber, the sitting will be suspended for five minutes. This simply does not work; there must be respect for the rapporteurs. Here you go, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115130629	Thank you for that, President. Let us just put it as it is: the rules on benefits were not as simple as we would have liked them to be. We must always work constantly to continue to focus on this, while ensuring that the rules support digital processing. That is why, in cooperation with the cashiers, we must make the necessary changes, and it is therefore gratifying that AK-Samvirke has pointed out the first part of the proposal that we are discussing today. Young people under 25 who are covered by youth rules and who either go down or up at rates should follow the new monthly model. This means that those who hit the youth rule and go down in benefit will in future wait until after the 1st in the coming month and thus have more money out of the month. Those who care about benefits will also have to wait until the 1st in the coming month and will therefore have less money out of the month. This means, however, that you follow other groups such as conscripts, other young people who go from parent to non-parent or vice versa, and graduates. This also means that the cashiers do not have to operate at two rates in one month, but only have to do with one and thus achieve the efficiency gains that are so important. The next part of this bill is an adjustment of something that is not the purpose of the benefit system. A member participating in training is considered as a starting point not to be available for the labour market, and therefore the general rule is that you cannot receive unemployment benefit if you participate in training. The PhD study is, as a rule, a full-time study in which there is no right to SU. PhD students are employed in collective positions as a PhD fellow with the possibility of earning the benefit. It is expected that the PhD student will complete his PhD during, for example, the 3-year period of employment. If you do not, there can be no extension of the period of employment, but there can then be agreement with the PhD student and the educational institution that the study will be carried out at the student's own expense, including that the study can be completed as part-time study, and during that period the student can then receive a daily allowance. The proposal is that you cannot continue your study because you have to be available and must be able to meet in a course at day-to-day notice in order to receive a daily allowance like any other person entitled to benefit in this country. However, you can still complete it during the benefit period or in leisure time, as long as you are available and follow the rules that exist. We think it is both right and proper and hope that it will get more people to finish the grant within the period of employment. However, we have made sure that the money remains in the unemployment benefit system and will be available for use by the working group, which is working with the benefit system for self-employed people and employees, and which is expected to be completed in 2017. That is why it is not a saving that needs to be spent elsewhere, but some money that remains in the benefit system, and we in the Social Democratic Party are very pleased with that and therefore, and for the other reasons, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115130925	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is just one brief comment from Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115130932	I would like to hear from the rapporteur about the last part dealing with the PhD students. I'm worried about that. As I see it, it gives the PhD students less opportunity to complete their education when making it more difficult to obtain unemployment benefits. This is, as I see it, a very limited use. I would like to hear the rapporteur explain in what ways he thinks that you can still continue to receive benefits as a PhD student. That's what it almost sounded like. That's not how I see this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115131008	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115131010	Of course, questions can be asked during the committee procedure. I see it as such that if you have not handed in the thesis and you are no longer associated with that study, you can, even if you are receiving a daily allowance, do it in your spare time and deliver the thesis later. This, of course, means that you still have to be available, and it also means that you have to take the jobs that are, like all other unemployed people.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115131037	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115131039	One can say that it is already the case that you must be available for the labour market. But here are some very, very strict demands that it should be after 1 p.m. 4 and everything else that will actually do, I think that many cannot live up to the daily allowance. So if during the committee procedure it emerges that this will make it impossible for a great many PhD students to receive unemployment benefits, will the Social Democratic Party reconsider its support for this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20161115131102	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115131104	No, we won't. We think it is right and proper. You've had a three-year period of employment in this PhD study, and then you'll just get the cash benefits. As I also said in the speech, I hope that even more will be finished because of this. Perhaps more will hurry, and I can also fear that there may be more, because you can get cash benefits waiting. I hope that more people will get it done within the three years. I think that should be possible. And if it does not succeed, it is still not impossible under the new rules to hand over the thesis. So you can still get away from it, and you can at the same time get a daily allowance if you do it in your spare time.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115131139	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115131149	Thank you, President. This bill, as has been said, contains two things. One is precisely the change in the benefit rate for young people under the age of 25, i.e. in the month in which you may go up to a higher rate, you continue at the rate you have had until the end of the month, and the same is the case if you are going down to a lower rate from a higher rate, i.e. that you continue the month at the rate you have had. This is an administrative relief for the cashiers, because it has been a bit heavy to manage, and of course the Danish People's Party supports it. As regards the second point about PhD students, it is of course the case that as a PhD student you can get a scholarship of 3 years and employment with salary to do your PhD study in, and it should be fair that you can do it in 3 years. There may of course be some who may have taken it a little lightly and who may have worked a little more and have not had time for the study, and then it might be nice to continue on the daily allowance. But that is not what is meant by a scholarship, because it is that you have to complete it in the three years. What this is all about is that, if you have not completed it in the three years, you cannot receive unemployment benefit while you are studying, but that you can get unemployment benefit and study in your spare time, which means that you have to be available for the labour market and that you have to take the job that comes and that you also have to be ready to be sent out into a job activation and take part in a job effort to get to work. It is right and proper, and in the Danish People's Party we also think that you can study in your spare time if you lack a bit. However, as a general rule, you should be finished after the three years and therefore also be ready to start work. The money will then be spent on the working group that will look at atypical employment, self-employed and salary-paid, in order to find a solution to how to secure the unemployment benefit system for them, and we also fully agree with that in the Danish People's Party. However, as I have said, we have a little difficulty in seeing why, if you can have a scholarship of 3 years, you cannot finish your PhD study, which has been set up. We assume that, when you have a scholarship of 3 years, it is because you have figured out that you can finish your study in the 3 years. So that is right and fair, and of course we support the proposal in the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115131429	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115131433	There may be many reasons why people are a little bit longer about completing their PhD. For many it is just an extra month or two, and there may have been different family-related things or other things during the training that have made it a little pulled out. What I would like to hear from the rapporteur is that it simply says here that it is estimated that 25%. of the PhD students then probably won't finish it, but instead like will quit and not get graduate if you do this. Is this something on which the rapporteur has considered the economic consequences? Because I don't think this is a very good business for society.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115131512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115131514	In other words, if you look at the possibilities that exist, you have the opportunity, as a former rapporteur has also said, to obtain cash benefits and then study in your spare time. There are also many others who take an additional training, for example. at night school, in their spare time to improve their skills. And PhD students therefore have the opportunity to study in their free time... they just have to be available for the labour market, and they must be ready to participate in the activities that stay to get them into employment. And they are not supposed to study in the daytime on daily allowances and then say: We do not have to participate in anything at the job centre or in the a-box, because we read PhD. The idea is that you should finish it as far as possible in the 3 years that the fellowship runs in. And if that is what the questioner says it may be that a month or two is missing, then I am sure that they can understand it and do it in their spare time so that they are still available for the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115131617	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115131619	That is why the rapporteur and the other parties expect a lot of millions of people to be freed from this. However, there are some people who will not be able to receive unemployment benefits because there are rules that they must have been on training for more than two years and that it must be after 2 p.m. This is something which can be difficult if, for example, we do not have the right to vote in local elections, but we do not have the right to vote in local elections. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115131658	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115131659	Thank you. The funny thing about such a system, compared to what you read at home and how you study at home is, of course, that nobody controls it. I think you can make it work together if you need a little something that you haven't finished after the three years. I think you can get that together. You just have to be available for the labour market and ready to take the offers that come, and then you can study in your spare time. But I do not think anyone is sitting here checking whether you are reading in the daytime as long as you are available for the labour market. I do not think anyone is going out to control it; I do not think that is what the Minister for Employment is going to do, that is to say, to take time to see whether they are reading a book in the daytime. But they have to be available for the labour market, and if there is a request from the job centre that you have to go into activation or that there is a job for you, then of course you have to be ready to take it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115131755	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115131805	Thank you. As the two previous rapporteurs have explained, it is a draft law which is about changing the time of changing the unemployment benefit rates for young people under 25, and the second element is that this proposal corrects an unintended consequence of the changes in the conditions of employment of PhD students. As the rules are today, PhD students who have not completed their thesis within the prescribed time can move to the benefit system and continue to work on their dissertation for up to 20 hours a week while receiving daily allowance. This is an unintended consequence of the fact that the PhD study has previously passed from being an SU eligible training to being an employment relationship. It has never been the intention that a doctoral study should both be included in the employment requirement and qualified as a part-time study of less than 20 hours. If you are in training, you are not considered to be available for the labour market, and therefore you should not be able to receive unemployment benefit. The benefit system is not a rescue plan for PhD students who do not complete their doctoral thesis during their 3-year employment relationship. It simply does not escape with the intentions of our benefit system. If you choose to opt out of the training and thus be available for the labour market, you can continue to receive unemployment benefit under normal conditions. Of course, this presupposes that you are a member of an unemployment fund. However, you can still agree with the educational institution to complete your PhD degree in the evening or on weekends. With the bill, we send a clear signal to the PhD students that if you move to the unemployment benefit system, you must first of all focus on getting into employment as soon as possible. The most privileged and well-educated in our society must also be motivated to actively seek jobs and actually be available for the labour market. Then there is the second element of the draft law, which the previous rapporteurs have explained very well. Overall, this will make the rules simpler, it will be easier to understand for Members, and we will also be able to debureaucratise the workflows in the 'A' boxes. Overall, this bill ensures that the PhD students are motivated to become part of the labour market and that they can no longer complete their PhD study on daily allowances, and with the second element of the bill we ensure a debureaucratisation in favour of the A-boxes and Members. So the Left can support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115132056	Thank you. And there is a brief comment to Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115132059	I would like to start by thanking the rapporteur for being a little more clear about this, I think, than the two previous rapporteurs, in saying that the intention is that you should not be able to receive benefits as a PhD student, so that this will also be the consequence. However, I would like to ask the rapporteur: when it is shown here that it is expected that about 25% will be expected. of the students who will not now be able to receive unemployment benefit during the last period will interrupt their PhD programme and instead of being able to receive unemployment benefit, is this something the government has calculated on the financial consequences of, that is, the fact that people do not receive the PhD programme? After all, it is people we have already spent a lot of resources on educating, who may not then be finished.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115132147	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115132149	Yes, I have also noted that this is the assessment. I am therefore delighted that there is such a large majority of PhD students who are expected to complete their studies, although they must now be available for the labour market. Because I think it's a little odd that the best educated people in this country should have a special scheme where, if they don't finish within the three years, their employment relationship lasts and that is the starting point of the time it should take to do a doctoral dissertation. We are not giving that opportunity to other people in this country, and that is why I think it is a perfectly reasonable legislative proposal that we are making here.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115132237	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115132239	I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the financial consequences of this have been properly calculated, because, as I can see, we are counting on, for example, the financial consequences of this. to save 7.3 million. kr. next year not to give these people cash benefits. However, I fear that the economic consequences of some interrupting their training courses and therefore not later having an equal income to contribute fiscally will exceed that here. Why hasn't the government calculated the consequences?
ParlaMint-DK_20161115132311	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115132312	For me, first of all, it's about a fundamental approach to this bill, that is, that the rules should not be more relaxed simply because you've studied five years at university and then spent three years writing your dissertation; then you shouldn't have more relaxed rules in the benefit system than all other people in this country. That is our approach. Then I have noted that it is expected that some will then not continue to write their doctoral thesis if they can no longer be part of the benefit system. This must be the consequence of creating what to say equality in relation to the rules, whether you have read for many years or a few years.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115132357	Thank you. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115132400	Thank you. I just want the rapporteur to confirm that it is 7.3 million. kr., you save this in the first place. And I would like to know if the rapporteur knows how many people it is that are not going to finish their PhD in the first place.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115132414	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115132418	As far as I can read, it is in the long run approx. 20 million kr. After retreat, and if you take into account taxes that society will save overall, this bill will be passed. The 20 million. kr. can then be used on e.g. to look at the working group which is currently looking at improving the conditions of people who may be self-employed in part of their lives, receiving fees in another part of working time and who are employees in a third part of the time. I would like to look at them in order to provide better conditions in relation to the benefit system, which is why I think it is a very sensible funding that we are putting forward here.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115132505	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115132507	Now the rapporteur did not reply to how many people will actually be able to complete their PhDs when we save these 20 million. kr. However, is the rapporteur not at all a little nervous that we will lose important research on the floor, good ideas, good ideas for innovation, good ideas for some of the know-how on which we must build our society, so that this really will be a really bad investment for us?
ParlaMint-DK_20161115132530	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115132532	I'm not so worried. I note that there are some who want to stop. Perhaps they had stopped anyway and still had not completed their doctoral thesis. You don't know that. It is, of course, regrettable, but I do not think it would suggest that people who have read very long in this country should have special privileges in the benefit system, in relation to people who have read for fewer years.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115132603	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115132620	Thank you very much. From the Enhedslisten side, we agree with the first part of the bill that the change in the daily allowance rate should follow the calendar month. Having already agreed that we have a monthly benefit system, it makes sense that no major shifts can take place in the middle of a payout month. This will also facilitate the administration of the cashiers, so we can agree with that part of the proposal. However, the second part of the proposal, which deals with the right of PhD students to daily allowances, is strongly opposed, because from a social point of view it is quite foolish that we first spend huge amounts of resources on providing students with a long and costly education, which I believe is beneficial to all of us, but then ultimately removes the financial basis that allows the student to complete and complete his or her education. For many people, it is just two or three months, when they have to go on unemployment benefits. I simply believe that this is a huge waste of educational resources which will far exceed the modest savings which the government and other parties will find here by removing the cost of daily allowances at the end of the PhD training. For students who, for various reasons, have not been able to complete their doctoral thesis within these three years of employment, this will have very, very large personal and financial consequences and thus mean that the programme will not be completed. That is also what we can see from the proposal here; it actually says that it is estimated that about 25%. will not be finished. I would say that I do not think that the talk of non-discrimination is going to last. Because there isn't. It is already the case that PhD students must, of course, be available for the labour market. It is clear, and I think that is quite reasonable, but this proposal is therefore about depriving PhD students who are completing just the last part of their education of the possibility of obtaining a daily allowance. It is a real deterioration, it is a real cut, and it is clear that we cannot support it on the part of Enhedslisten, and certainly not when you can see that it is like what to say about a sandwich that hits both the people who are so unlucky to lose their jobs and the students. So we cannot vote in favour of this. I hope the government will consider dividing this proposal into two portions. Then, of course, we would very much like to vote in favour of the first part, which deals with the administrative adjustments, and then, of course, we will continue to vote against this proposal to remove the possibility of entitlement to benefits for PhD students. If the proposal is not split up, we cannot support L 63.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115132926	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115132941	We can support this bill. We see it as closing a gap in the benefits legislation. It should not be the case that once you have been given the opportunity to read PhD, if you have not completed it within the three years you have to do it, and you are also paid, you can read on unemployment benefits. For all other groups in society, we say that it is usually left-wing parties to say that when you receive a daily allowance, you have to be available for the labour market. And then it is a mistake in our opinion that you can read PhD while receiving a daily allowance. It doesn't harmonize, and it's gonna change with this bill, and we can back that up.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115133026	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115133045	Thank you. There are two elements to the proposal. Part one is a more or less technical change to the benefit system, where the youth rules are streamlined with the rest of the new benefit system. We can support that. Of course, it is not appropriate for the cashiers to have to run with several separate administrative systems, regardless of what else we think about the new cash benefits rules. The second part of the bill is about closing down PhD students to complete their dissertation on daily allowances if the schedule is extended. On the other hand, we find that difficult to support in the alternative. There may be many good reasons why a doctoral timetable is slipping away. For example: In the laboratory environments, data and experimental results may be very delayed. In the vast majority of cases it is my impression that it will then be solved with an extension of the scholarship or. of a kind used in the manufacture of motor vehicles of Chapter 87 However, the question is whether it is not very good that, in cases where there is no solution to the extension, there is a backup that ensures that the three years of work and the many resources spent, plus the potential value that the project could create, are not lost. The question is also, if you see this as a major problem, whether you could not find a more appropriate solution than just shutting down a system and letting research collapse. Could you make a type of termination agreement, that is, a contract in a few clear months and a clear course of action to complete this PhD? Well, we think we're risking losing relevant research and leaving students in a situation where they'll never finish their PhD. And I can imagine that in the long run it could cost more than the saving this proposal is going to give. We also think that there is considerable uncertainty about the government's presentation of the issue. There seems to be some difference between how the government assesses reality and how the people who work with it in everyday life experience it. That's why we have some questions about the government's way of determining the extent of this problem. Among other things: The government has estimated that a defense always takes place within three months. We believe that in a relatively large number of cases this can be done at a later date. These cases, as far as I can see, have been discussed in the government's inventory of the problem. We would like that to be clarified. Nor can I see whether the government has taken account of the fact that there may be a sluggishness in the updating of the training register, so that some are longer as PhD students than they actually are, etc. On the current basis, we cannot support the draft law, but of course we are following the committee procedure and we look forward to getting answers to our questions. We can easily find ourselves in a situation where we are in favour of the first proposal but are strongly opposed to the second one, so we have to vote against the overall proposal. So if the government wants wider support for the proposal on young people's benefits, one might consider separating the proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115133325	Thank you. There are no comments. Then it is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115133341	Thank you. In the Radical Left, we support this bill. We think it is quite fair that one should complete one's PhD at the time set aside for it. There may certainly be situations where there are also today opportunities to extend, but I hope that the Minister will encourage universities, who are the employer in this context, to prepare the PhD students, as they are still called, even though it is actually a teaching and research job, to ensure that it is no longer possible to extend their PhD to a part-time scheme, which is actually what is currently the case. Of course you will have the opportunity to complete your PhD. I can also be a little doubt as to whether it can provide as extensive amounts as it is here, but it has to depend on believers it is of course the Ministry's calculations. But what I'm concerned about is that the PhD students are being prepared for it. And it is the university's job as an employer to prepare it and also take care of the possible people, who will then not be able to complete their PhD on time; the university can then find arrangements so that they should not be on the allowance at all. So we support the legislative proposal here and also the other elements, which I think are well described by some of the other rapporteurs in the past and which I also hear very broad support for in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115133552	Thank you. There are no comments. Sir. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115133607	After all, the draft law has two parts which have nothing to do with each other, and that is why we in the SF are calling for the bill to be shared, so that one part can be supported, but not the other. The first part of the bill is a good and pragmatic solution, so that the cashiers do not have to operate with two rates within the same month. On the other hand, in the case of the impairments for PhD students, we think that you miss. There is a need for more people to be trained, and more people who take an education need to take a longer education. We think it should be both attractive and flexible to take a PhD. When the benefit commission worked, it also did not point out that there should be a benefit problem for PhD students. The unemployment benefit system, as stated in the hearing from AK-Samvirke, is now being disturbed again. Now it is claimed that, by the way, it was never intended to be possible to obtain benefits as a PhD student. To this it writes AK-Samvirke in the hearing answer that the rights of PhD students today have thus been granted to them by the Directorate of Labour through practice. We therefore wonder, that is to say, AK-Samvirke, that you will suddenly take the court from these members again and even on the grounds that it has never been intended that you as a PhD student should be able to receive cash benefits, while at the same time conducting a PhD study on part-time. The academics also ask, I think, very reasonable in their consultation answer: there has been a reasonable social policy justification for the fact that the Labour Directorate's change in practice in 2006 is indeed valid today. And then you can also ask yourself what it is like with the figures in the bill. Danish universities write to us with a background in a reply from Aarhus University that Aarhus University has doubts about the estimate in the bill that 550 PhD students receive unemployment benefit annually under the terms described. For the sake of a proper estimation of the economic impact of the proposal, Aarhus University will therefore recommend a more detailed examination of the basis of figures in order to ensure that it does not include, for example: PhD students entitled to graduation allowance during the period after the thesis has been submitted for evaluation and the study activity thus ceased. SF would very much like to support the first part of the proposal, but if it continues to be dealt with as one legislative proposal, we would recommend that we vote against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115133849	The last rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115133900	Conservatives can support the bill, both elements. We also think that the element that is about PhD students studying at half-power is sensible, so that they cannot at the same time receive unemployment benefits. First of all, we believe that PhD students should study full time and hurry to finish. We should not call for a half-time system of this kind, which means that we do not order as much as we could otherwise. Secondly, we believe that they do not belong in the benefit system at all if they are in that situation. The only reservation I have about the bill is that I would like to hear from the Minister whether there are any plans for these approx. 41 million kr., which is saved a year. What are they for? I want to make sure they don't end up in a place where we don't think they should be. So I would like to know if there is any earmarking of the money or how it will be used. Otherwise, however, it is an excellent saving proposal that we can support.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115134003	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115134021	Thank you. Today we are discussing bill L 63, the law amending the law on unemployment insurance concerning the timing of the change of unemployment benefit rates for young people under 25 and the entitlement of PhD students to unemployment benefit. I want to talk about the PhD students first. Today the rules are such that a PhD student whose scholarship has expired because he or she has not completed his or her dissertation on the prescribed time can receive a daily allowance. This is possible because the completion of PhD training can be organized as a part-time study, in agreement with the educational institution, and it is possible to follow part-time study in accordance with the rules on unemployment benefits, at the same time as receiving unemployment benefit. This is not in line with the intention of the benefit system, but is an unintended consequence of the fact that the PhD study has been switched from being an SU eligible training to being an actual employment relationship with the possibility of earning the benefit. As a result, the part-time doctoral course has been inadvertently covered by the exemption rules applicable to training in the benefit system where one can take part in training if the duration is less than 20 hours per week and the training in question is not eligible for SU, to the extent that it is offered as full-time training. The unintended and somewhat strange consequence here is that as a PhD student you are employed and paid, and therefore you earn the right to benefit during the PhD programme, and that the course in this sense is regarded as a full-time job. But if you have not succeeded in completing the thesis on standard time, you can suddenly call full - time work a part - time study and thus receive a daily allowance. Against this background, the Government proposes to change the rules so that it is no longer possible to receive unemployment benefit during a part-time doctoral course. As I have said, this is an unintended consequence of previous regulatory changes and, in the view of the government, it has never been the intention of the benefit system to act as a training aid or research aid scheme. The aim of the part of the draft law relating to the PhD study is thus to abolish the possibility of receiving unemployment benefit at the same time as taking part in a doctoral training course. From now on, a doctoral course cannot be completed as a part-time study at the same time as the receipt of daily allowance. However, a PhD student who has not completed the course before the end of the PhD grant and who has signed up for unemployment benefit and is receiving unemployment benefit may, in his spare time and outside normal working hours, continue to work to a very limited extent to complete his dissertation. However, he or she must be fully available for the labour market and it will be up to a concrete assessment in the box whether or not he or she is actually available. In this context, it should be noted, for the sake of fairness, that some types of training can continue to be provided while the benefit is paid. So we can, for example, do something about it. continue to participate in an AMU course, and unskilled people will continue to be able to follow courses corresponding to the 8th-10th grade of primary school. As regards the part of the draft law dealing with the time of change in the daily allowance rate, this part relates only to members of the cashiers under 25 years of age. This is a technical change which will mean that in future changes in the daily allowance rate for this group will take place at a change of month rather than at the middle of the month. The reason for this is that in the administrative implementation of the unemployment benefit reform, the cashiers and AK-Cooperatives have pointed out that the change in the rate in the middle of a month is inappropriate and therefore the rules are changed. From now on, when the amount of the benefit to the unemployed under the age of 25 is to be changed, it will be changed from the first of the following month. With these comments and, moreover, referring to the draft law and the comments accompanying it, I must recommend the proposal for the favourable treatment of the matter, just as I look forward to a good reading of the committee. Two questions have been asked. I would like to say to Sofie Carsten Nielsen that I will ensure that the universities and higher education institutions are brought to the attention of the changes when they are adopted so that they can be adapted to it, and to Mr Sofie Carsten Nielsen. Rasmus Jarlov's question is that it is the Government's intention that the income generated here should be kept within the benefit system. It is the case that we have not yet completed the benefit reform. There is still an unemployment benefit reform for the self-employed, the paid and the third group, and our aim is to keep the proceeds reserved for any expenses incurred as a result of these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115134613	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115134618	Thank you very much. I would like to put a further question to the Minister. I am interested to hear whether the government will provide the socio-economic assessment of what it will cost, because it assumes that there will be 25 per cent. out of these approx. 550 PhD students who will interrupt their PhD programmes. What will be the socio-economic consequence of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20161115134650	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115134652	I think it'll be unpredictable. After all, the assessment here is that there will be 25 per cent who choose to continue living on unemployment benefits. But whether they choose to complete the PhD programme in their spare time or whether they choose to go to work on the basis of the skills and assumptions they have at the time, I do not know. However, the group is in any case so small that I believe that any economic consequences will not be significant.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115134729	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115134731	I am just concerned that there will be quite a lot of consequences. I would like to hear the Minister confirm that a person who has completed a PhD education is a socio-economic gain. You contribute with knowledge and tax revenues etc., as opposed to if you have not completed your education.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115134754	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115134756	You have the skills you have. The difference between being completely finished or not being completely finished is whether you have obtained proof of it or have received approval for a project. I repeat: if it is the case that you continue to choose to be on unemployment benefit, then you have the opportunity to complete your project in leisure time. If you choose the other way, namely to go into employment, then the problem is solved. After all, jobs have been created on the basis of the competences that we now have.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115134831	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115134837	Thank you. It was new to me that the money should be spent within the benefit system, and that worries me a little, because that means that by voting in favour of this bill we say yes to 41 million being taken. kr. a year, which is being given to something that we do not know whether we can support. We do not know whether, among the major parties, it will be agreed that more money will be spent on daily allowances for some groups of people whom we do not think should have more money on daily allowances. It almost makes me think that we will almost have to abstain from voting on this bill, because it may well be that they will then be used for an increase in the benefit system, where we think the money is less spent than on these PhD students that we are now discussing. So I think, before we vote through it, I have to have some sort of clarification of what exactly the government is planning to use these funds for, otherwise I think we are voting blindly on this saving, which is not really a saving, but just an opportunity to distribute gifts elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115134937	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115134939	My information on the booking of the money for the changes in the allowances for the self-employed is a service information. We do not have any concrete plans to use the money for anything specific. The preparatory work in this area has not yet been completed, but we know that it is ahead of us; we know that we are not finished changing the overall benefit system and there will be very easy costs and the money is hard to find. Since there is revenue coming here, I think it is most fair to reserve the money for possible expenses, but we have not attached any concrete initiatives or types of expenditure to this money, as it is a pure reservation.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115135024	Thank you for that, thank you to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115135038	The debate is open. Sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115135107	Thank you, President. The vast majority of Danes spend much of their lives on the labour market, and we know that future generations will have to stay on the labour market for even longer than before. Therefore, it is crucial that it is safe, safe and healthy to go to work in Denmark. For social democracy, it is therefore also essential that we make demands on the conditions under which we all work. Fortunately, a broad majority of us in this Parliament agree on this. Therefore, back in 2011, we reached an agreement on a strategy for OSH efforts up to 2020, setting targets for the three main occupational health and safety problems in the labour market. Thus, by 2020, there must be 25%. fewer serious accidents at work, 20 per cent. fewer mentally overloaded and 20 per cent. less with muscle and skeletal overload. These are ambitious but necessary objectives if we are to ensure that more people have a good and a long working life. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party welcome the fact that the Minister has put forward a bill here, as we share the Council's view that a strengthened party's efforts are essential to achieving the 2020 objectives. The draft law is based on the recommendations of the Working Conditions Council on a number of adjustments to the system of parties between trade unions and employers' organisations. In concrete terms, the draft law contains a new structure for the system of the parties, replacing the existing 11 Industry Working Environment Councils with five Sectoral Communities for Working Conditions. The aim of the new structure is to make more effective use of knowledge, experience and resources at industry level and to make more systematic use of the synergies associated with cooperation in cross-cutting areas. At the same time, the draft law contains a new financing model aimed at creating a more stable funding framework for the work on health and safety. The current model has led to unintended instability in the overall contribution to the parties' work on health and safety because it is calculated on the basis of the number of recognised occupational injuries in previous years, and this is clearly a figure that can vary greatly from year to year. The new financing model stabilises the economic base of the parties' efforts, taking into account the variations in the number of determined occupational injuries in each year. In addition, the draft law contributes to the inclusion of several of the country's companies in the RUT register, which is one of our most important tools for combating social dumping. I just have to say that the government's financial bill does not contribute to that. Over the past 41⁄2 years, SKAT, the Labour Inspectorate and the police have worked closely together to combat social dumping. This has had really positive results, but from this year onwards, the funds for making the effort will disappear, and in 2018 the authorities will be cut so strongly that the effort will virtually disappear. From having 71 employees in the Labour Inspectorate to checking that there is no social dumping, you will in future have only 5 employees to control the whole of Denmark. We in the Social Democratic Party find this not only worrying, but also very disappointing. We believe that the fight against social dumping should be increased or, at least, maintained as it is today, as it helps to ensure proper and good working conditions in the Danish labour market. It seems grotesque, to say the least, that the government, with one hand, lays down the possibilities in the RUT register, while pulling the curtain away with the other hand during the coordinated supervision effort. With that said, this bill is, after all, moving in the right direction in relation to a better working environment, which is why the Social Democratic Party naturally supports the bill and we look forward to the further work in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115135533	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115135554	Thank you for that, President. After all, this draft law, L 64, is about a change to the 11 Industry Environment Councils, which the Minister has proposed should be changed to 5, which means that they also have to change their names into industrial communities, which means that they cover more areas than they have done in the past. It is the cross-cutting activities that it covers. It is also a good thing, as there is no doubt for the Danish People's Party that we need a good working environment, so that people can last long in the labour market and to avoid wear and tear. That is why we must also be sure that it is the right effort that is being made by people at work, that is to say that they do not feel abandoned, but that they are getting the right work done, and also that these five new industry communities can make some initiatives that benefit the labour market. Having said that, we also think that we should have a little more knowledge of how the structure of these five industry communities is going to be. It is always possible to say that there are so many people and all that, but I think it would be sensible for us to go through it just now, and I think that the Minister should also go through it with the conciliation circle in the field of health and safety, and go through it a little more thoroughly, because there are also some other points that we in the Danish People's Party are a little critical of and need to hear a little more about. This applies, among other things, to: EU regulation 10/22, which was dealt with in L 178 and which the Danish People's Party voted against. Well, we'd like to know about it a little better. However, if it is to be implemented in Danish legislation, the question is how much it is patching up over this. We're just gonna need an account of the connection between this EU regulation and this bill... so we're gonna have to figure out how it works. I can't really figure that out. In any case, it is important for us to get it in place before we say anything final about it. The financing of this is OK, so it is being changed so that it is settled after cases and over a long period of time. I don't think anyone can mind. For us, it is also important that, when the parties agree on something, we also support the efforts they have made together. I understand from the parties that this is one of the things they are also in favour of. They have nothing against it, and they look forward to it having an impact on it, and we can easily support it in the Danish People's Party. However, before we finally agree to that, we need to clarify this with the EU directive, which is the link between L 64 and then the directive to be implemented directly into Danish legislation. We have a meeting in the Working Environment Committee tomorrow, and it could be that perhaps the Minister could have a piece of paper ready at that time. At the moment, we can support the proposal, but with the reservation that we would like to hear a little about the link between it and the EU directive.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115135938	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115135943	Thank you. In fact, I rise just to put one question to the rapporteur. As the rapporteur may have noticed, I have, of course, problematized the fact that the government has chosen not to table a financial bill which means that the fight against social dumping must continue. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur if he does not see the paradox that we have here a legislative proposal in which we can jointly help to increase the possibility of using the RUT register, while at the same time we are in a situation where the government, with the support parties that are now, probably including the Danish People's Party, removes the possibility of really going out and supervising the seats.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115140025	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115140026	I'm not gonna be smart about the financial laws. However, as I recall, the Danish People's Party has said that we will strengthen the fight against social dumping, including in the context of the Finance Act. The negotiations are not over yet, and I do not yet know what the outcome of them will be. However, our social dumping rapporteurs Peter Kofod Poulsen and Kristian Thulesen Dahl have at least announced that we will strengthen the fight against social dumping and that it is in the Finance Act. But I cannot say at this stage where they stand and how far they have come in those negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115140106	Sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115140108	I just want the rapporteur to confirm that he believes that it is paradoxical that we have this legislative proposal, which actually increases the possibility of the RUT register being used, and that the government and the support parties are also pulling the curtain away in the effort to make it possible to monitor effectively.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115140125	Well, I'm not going to admit to Lennart Damsbo-Andersen that we're pulling the curtain away during the effort, because the budget negotiations are under way and we have no results yet. I do not know at this stage how far they have come with these negotiations in this area. That is why it is too early to say that the blanket is being pulled away during the effort. We are in favour of strengthening the fight against social dumping, and this is part of the financial law negotiations. But where it ends, for good reason, I can't say yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115140157	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115140208	Thank you. As I have said, the draft law we are discussing today contains adaptations to the Working Conditions Act and an amendment to the Posting of Workers Act. The first part is, overall, about a well-functioning working party system in the field of health and safety, because a good working environment must and must never be neglected. That is why we must also do what we can to achieve the objectives of the strategy that we have put in place for health and safety at work by 2020. And if we are to achieve those objectives, it is important that the system of the parties in the field of health and safety works well. A well-functioning system of the parties is characterised by close and good cooperation between the actors. With the bill here, we ensure that those ambitions for close and good cooperation are supported. We change the structure so that the current 11 Industry Working Environment Councils are replaced by a smaller number of Industry Communities for Working Environment. It helps to emphasise that the individual industry community for occupational health and safety covers several sectors, and in this way we create better conditions for coordinating the business-oriented action. In other words, we are linking the various actors and their activities in systematic cooperation, thus exploiting the potential of the entire system of parties. Of course, the Left can only support that. Then there is the second part of the bill which deals with the enforcement of the Posting of Workers Act. The correction ensures uniform enforcement of the notification obligation for the RUT register, and the Left sees no challenges in that, and therefore we can also support that part. So, overall, the Left will recommend this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115140400	Thank you. Sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen, Social Democratic Party, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115140404	Thank you. I would actually like to put the same question to the rapporteur of the Left, whom I put to the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, and ask whether the rapporteur does not see the paradox of this. We are dealing with a legislative proposal which really increases the possibility of protecting ourselves against social dumping in the Danish labour market, and we are in a situation which depends on whether anyone chooses to enter the Finance Act and bring it to the table, that we should continue with the efforts that are being made today, with the SKAT and the police and the Labour Inspectorate. In fact, by looking at the budget, it can be seen that supervision and the possibility of supervision will disappear by the end of 2017. Does the rapporteur not think that is paradoxical?
ParlaMint-DK_20161115140447	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115140449	I think that we have seen similar things: what are the starting points for a financial bill debate? I think it was also the case that what the previous government had presented was the funding of the coming year, i.e. 2017 • it may have been in 2013 and 2014 • but, as far as the forecast years are concerned, they were not fully funded in relation to the fight against social dumping. And I am comfortable, and I can also hear that there are others other than the Left, the Social Democrats and the Danish People's Party who are concerned about combating social dumping. So I firmly believe that in the forthcoming budget negotiations we can find solutions that will enable us, when we also talk 2018 and 2019, to combat social dumping. However, there is funding compared to 2017, so we are not standing here with the end of 2016 and do not know what is going to happen in 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115140544	Sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115140547	After all, I myself was close to the negotiations that were in connection with the policy of the previous government in this area, and I would say that nothing had been cut to 0 DKK. That's what we're gonna see with this. An effort was made in the years of estimates for all four years in relation to this. There were then some good parties in the Folketing who wanted us to put more on, and we were in agreement with that, so it happened. That's where we are now. But with the initiative that the government has made, we can see that there is nothing. What is going to happen in 2017 is actually something that the previous government has decided to make an agreement on. In the future, it disappears completely, there are only five supervisors left. Would it not be better to ensure some stability in this, that it will not be possible for us to be in this situation, so that, in fact, in a year and a half, there will be no one left to carry out the supervision that we obviously agree there should be?
ParlaMint-DK_20161115140642	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115140644	We are concerned about the fact that there are arranged conditions on the Danish labour market, and we want to have to compete on equal terms. After all, this is also about the good cooperation between the authorities, which has actually meant that the fight against social dumping has improved so that we can continue this cooperation in the future too. I look forward to doing so in a confident manner. After all, the financial law negotiations have not yet been concluded, and I am sure that solutions will also be found with regard to 2018 and 2019. What is the situation here and now is that we can go into 2017 and continue the efforts we are doing so well. So I welcome that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115140728	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115140736	Thank you. The change in the law we are going to deal with today means that the 11 Industry Working Environment Councils will be disbanded and replaced by a number of industry communities for the working environment. The Working Conditions Council recommends that there should be five sectoral communities, and this is, of course, a considerable reduction compared with the current 11 sectoral Working Environment Councils. For example: The industry community for health and safety, welfare and public administration must cover a wide range of sectors, and it should therefore be ensured that there is an opportunity to work in sub-groups so as to keep the industry honest, and it is very important that this work is closely monitored so that there is no deterioration in effort. At the same time, several tasks are assigned to the Working Conditions Council. The Council shall undertake cross-cutting activities in which the occupational health and safety communities shall participate, the Council shall make recommendations on the activities to be undertaken by the Knowledge Centre for Safety and Health at Work, and the Council shall include the area of occupational injury in its entire work. We therefore see a tendency towards more centralisation, that more influence is given to the Working Conditions Council, and we hope that this will not be at the expense of the competence and autonomy of the new industry communities. When the Working Conditions Act was amended back in 2010, the Industry Working Environment Councils were weakened and their competence and independence were reduced, and at the same time it was agreed that every year 50.4 million would be transferred. kr. to the State of the resources for preventive work on health and safety at work. At that time there were protests from the social partners • LO, DA, FTF, KL, Danske Regionser, Staten Aviation and DSB protested against the proposal, but it was nevertheless adopted by the bourgeois majority while the entire opposition voted against. In its section 66 statement of December 2015, the Working Environment Council shows that the funds of the parties have been reduced from 90 million. kr. in 2010 to 16,6 million. kr. in 2017, and in 2016, the funds were 18.8 million. kr.; here the work on working conditions was saved by an additional grant of 10 million. kr. We agree with the Working Conditions Council that this situation is completely unsustainable and that the funds provided to finance the parties' work on health and safety should be used for this purpose. That is why they should be EUR 50.4 million. kr., which is transferred to the state each year, is traced back to the parties' preventive work on working conditions, and we announce an amendment to the bill. Preventive work on health and safety is financed partly by a fixed contribution of 45 million. kr., partly of an amount that amounts to 2%. In the case of accidents at work, in the calendar year two years before the year of contribution, compensation is granted for permanent but also compensation for loss of earning capacity in the case of accidents at work. It has been shown, as other speakers have already said, that they are 2%. varies quite significantly year by year and it is therefore proposed that the contribution be calculated on the basis of an average over a 10-year period of compensation awarded and compensation awarded. We can support this part of the proposal as it will ensure a more stable economy. The proposal provides for a change in the composition of the Board of Appeal. The Ministry of Justice is no longer required to nominate a member to the Board of Justice and the President must have a judicial degree in law. Enhedslisten has no objection to that. The second part of the bill is a change in the Posting of Workers Act. The draft law makes it clear that all foreign companies are obliged to notify information to the RUT register and that exactly the same rules apply to notification, regardless of whether companies are subject to the rules on the posting of employees or not. The Enhedslisten supports this proposal and, in this connection, we believe that it would be sensible to divide the present draft law into two proposals so that the amendments to the two legislative proposals can be dealt with separately. For Enhedslisten, it is extremely important that we ensure the necessary economy for the parties' work on working conditions, and we stress that the new occupational health and safety communities will have independent competence and a sufficient influence on the preventive work on working conditions. We will seek to influence the process in committee so that this happens, and our vote therefore awaits further committee work on the legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115141226	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115141234	I shall be very brief, because the previous rapporteurs have explained quite well the draft law, which we do not consider particularly controversial. There is support from the social partners for the changes that are being made in the field of health and safety with regard to the decommissioning of these 11 Industry Environment Councils, which are being replaced by 5 Sectoral Communities. In addition, the bill contains some impact amendments to the Posting of Workers Directive, which must be implemented, and we can back this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115141318	Thank you. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115141325	Thank you. The overall aim of the draft law is to ensure effective action on working conditions through greater cooperation and coordination as well as the extended work portfolio of the Working Conditions Council. It has gradually been explained exactly how this is going to happen by excellent rapporteurs, so I shall not repeat that. We support the proposal, as it is primarily the implementation of recommendations from the Working Conditions Council and thus the social partners. There is one thing that falls into our eyes. It is, of course, positive that the model is given greater stability by having a smoother curve over 10 years, but there is one thing we notice, and that is that the government takes 50.4 million. kr. per year of the money to be spent on health and safety efforts. We have tried to read a little about what it uses them for, but we will ask it as a question, because why do you take 50.4 million? kr., which is a huge amount compared to the total amount, a year? It may well be that there is a very good explanation for it in one of the many, many chapters of the great law book written before the alternative came into parliament, but we now want to hear why you take them and what you use them for. We are also looking forward to examining, when evaluating this draft law, whether it will work with the quiet and calm compensation provided for in relation to the financing of the work on health and safety. We will look at this in 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115141508	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115141519	Thank you. We also support this bill in the Radical Left. Health and safety at work is essential for many more people to have a better working life and more good years in the labour market. Several rapporteurs have mentioned this. We have also set goals for this together in the health and safety strategy, which is why I am just happy that the government is following the recommendations of the Working Conditions Council here. There is no doubt that we in the Radical Left would like to see this, as I heard from the Social Democratic Party, a more active effort to improve the working environment in Denmark. We're sorry about the cuts in the Labour Inspectorate. We would like to see far more effective and targeted supervision and not just the risk-based ones, but there are many things to do in that field. After all, we have also sent the Minister a number of proposals from the Radical Left. In relation to this bill, I think that the former rapporteurs have highlighted this excellently and we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115141629	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115141642	The draft law flies well with the recommendations of the Working Conditions Council, including the desire for a more stable economy. We also think it is good to improve the quality of the work environment and the area of occupational injury, and to create stronger professional environments and communities. SF can certainly also support entering and strengthening the influence of the social partners. After all, the government comes up with all sorts of boring and sad proposals in relation to the labour market on a daily basis, but this particular bill is a mouse step in the right direction. In the field of health and safety, the government takes ten steps back and then a small step forward. But then we were confirmed in the proverb that even a blind hen can find a grain.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115141746	Yeah, but it was fine. Thank you. The Conservative rapporteur is not here. Then it's the Minister of Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115141804	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteurs for the favourable treatment of the draft law amending the Working Conditions Act, the Work Damage Protection Act and the Posting of Workers Act. In the field of health and safety there is a long and good tradition that the social partners play a key role. I am pleased that the social partners in the Working Conditions Council have played an active part in finding the new structure for the parties' work on working conditions and I look forward to future cooperation with them. The Government considers it important that the system of parties in the field of health and safety is working well and that the parties support and contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the strategy on health and safety at work up to 2020. In addition, the Government considers that there is a need to strengthen the coordination of party efforts in order to achieve more targeted and effective action. This will enable us to make more effective use of the knowledge and experience and resources at industry level. With the new structure for the system of parties, we will have a closer link between the different actors in the field of health and safety and the activities they undertake. The aim of the proposal is to adapt the rules and framework of the social partners' work on health and safety and to provide a more stable basis for funding the work of the labour market and the parties concerned. I would like to thank you for today's debate and look forward to the further discussion in committee. There was a question from Mr. Bent Bøgsted in connection with the RUT register, and I am, of course, willing to do so in committee proceedings, but can also say that, as part of the implementation of the Enforcement Directive, the Posting of Workers Act was amended. The amendment of the law lays down inter alia: a notification obligation to the RUT register for a new category of foreign companies, namely companies providing services when carrying out work in Denmark, without the conditions for posting being met. It has been provided that the notification obligation in the RUT Register for companies in this new category should be enforceable in the same way as for undertakings without employees and undertakings with employees subject to the rules on secondment. The aim of this amendment is to ensure that the same enforcement can be exercised, but I am happy to elaborate on it in committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115142100	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115142114	The debate is open, and it is first Mrs Annette Lind, the Social Democrat Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115142153	The Danish education system must reduce social differences and increase social mobility and enable all young people, regardless of their background, to pursue their dreams. It is heartblood for us Social Democrats and the common thread we have held on to during the negotiations on a reform of high school. We have managed to reach a broad agreement, it took a long time, and the negotiations also showed that there were clear ideological differences. In this context, I would like to thank the SF and the Radicals for the very close pairing and for agreeing with us that the aim of reform should be to open doors instead of closing them. In the same context, I would also like to thank the Minister for being responsive and loyal to the things we are discussing. The future upper secondary education must, as today, provide pupils with the necessary professional qualifications for further study, as well as providing pupils with a general education that forms them as people and citizens of society. In the common purpose clause for all upper secondary educations, we state that a student's hat is worth just as much, regardless of whether you have attended the general upper secondary school, hhx or htx or hf. We stick to the basic values of education and training. We cherish the importance of general education and insist that interdisciplinary, inter-trade and cooperation are essential to dress the students to the reality that awaits them. At the same time, we focus on creating more modern and professionally focused education. Education must be more application-oriented and close to reality, and the test forms must be developed and adapted to the time in which we live, just as we must put turbo on digitalisation. With the reform, upper secondary education is given a necessary professional boost. We strengthen the teaching of core subjects such as mathematics, and we create some more targeted courses with clear professional profiles. We do this in order to make it easier for young people to choose and pursue higher education. Fewer courses should make the choice more clear for the individual student and ensure that fewer people end up with an examination that does not give them access to the training they want afterward. At the same time, we are creating a framework for a shorter and better basic course to give pupils a better sense of the direction in which they are going and which allows them to change along the way, including vocational training. Hf is the youth education that creates the most model breakers. It is here that a large group of young people from homes without piano and long educational traditions get the opportunity to take a baccalaureate and study further, many at a professional bachelor and some at the university. For the Social Democratic Party, it was absolutely crucial to stick to hf, as we know it, a hf, which is a model wrestling training where young people who have not gone the straight way through the education system get a chance and subsequently can choose the education they want. That is why we are both happy and proud that we managed not only to preserve hf, but also to strengthen and safeguard it for the future. Hf must continue to be an open education for anyone who can and will, and hf must continue to provide access to all higher education, including the university. Although we welcome the agreement we have reached for hf, there are also elements that we can be concerned about, and that is something that we will follow very closely. The new law opens up a recording directly from 9th grade to hf. It is not a proposal that has grown in our backyard, and it is important to emphasise that it should be more of the exception than the rule that you apply directly from the 9th class to the hf. We do not want young people to start choosing hf instead of vocational training with the law. We must stick to the objective that more people should choose an eud directly from primary school. We in the Social Democratic Party believe that the 10th class or time outside the education system should remain the primary access to hf, and we will follow developments closely to ensure that the new opportunities do not have unintended consequences. L 58 and L 59 cover a very comprehensive and ambitious reform of upper secondary education, which will have a major impact on our overall education system. The reform must be seen in the context of the major changes we have made in both primary and vocational education in recent years. For us in the Social Democratic Party, the aim of all measures has been the same: to make all children and young people as capable as possible, regardless of their background and circumstances. A good education is the best we can give our children and young people to enable them to do well and as well as possible so that they can seize the opportunities that await and deal with the challenges they face on their way. This has been our common thread throughout the negotiations: to enable young people to take training, to open doors instead of closing them, and we will be stubborn to follow up on this when the reform is to become a reality. On the basis of this, the Social Democratic Party supports L 58 and 59 on strengthened upper secondary education. Finally, I would just like to add a few words to the economy and note that, despite our support for the overall reform and the proposed legislative proposals, we are concerned about the government's savings in education. According to the government, large sums of money will have to be saved over the next few years and this is not in keeping with the reforms we are about to shape out in reality. Professionalism and quality must be strengthened not only in upper secondary education but also in vocational schools. We do not agree with the government's priorities and we are concerned about how this will affect the implementation and ambitions of youth education.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115142716	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments and the next rapporteur is Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115142728	It is a historic day for high school today, when we first deal with the bill on high schools. It is also a historic day for hf, which is fundamentally reformed by this bill. Today, the mistakes made in 2003 when the reform of secondary education was adopted will be corrected. I am therefore proud to have been involved in the process that led to this law. Once this law is implemented in high school, we will have a better high school with education at a higher level. We will simply have better students in the future. We have made high school much better in a wide range of areas. The series is so long that I cannot mention it all, but I would just like to point out that the multi-disciplinary subject AT has, thankfully, been abolished, that admission requirements have been introduced in high school, that the number of courses of study has been reduced, that general education has been strengthened, and that important cultural subjects such as religion, history and ancient knowledge have been retained as independent subjects. As far as hf is concerned, there is no question of correcting the mistakes of the past, no, it is a question of changing hf fundamentally so that the training becomes more directed towards the professional bachelor degree programmes. At the same time, the classic hf is retained as a single subject on the VUC. This reform of high school and hf will, overall, strengthen youth education and make more concrete demands on young people, who can now distribute themselves better according to abilities and interests. Of course, not everyone goes to high school; there is no need for that. It's not good for the kids, it's not good for high school. Hf has in its new edition become a genius alternative to high school for those who are not sure that they want to go to university. With this legislation we can be proud of our efforts, and we are in the Danish People's Party. We look forward to the law being fully implemented in schools for the benefit of Danish children and young people and thus for the benefit of Denmark. In the Danish People's Party we support the bill, which we have been waiting for impatiently for 13 years and which we have pushed on to get on the table for just as long. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115143002	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115143007	Thank you. I have a very brief question. The rapporteur said that one of the advantages of the legislative proposal is that generalisation is strengthened. Would the rapporteur please say what exactly is in this draft law, which, according to the rapporteur, strengthens generalisation?
ParlaMint-DK_20161115143021	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115143023	It is that the teaching of the individual subjects has the opportunity to reach a higher level. I think I disagree with the questioner about what general education is. General education is a broad knowledge in the various sciences. This means that it is knowledge in the fields of humanities, science and social sciences, and it is strengthened in high school in its new way.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115143052	Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115143055	Thank you for your answer. Then I would just like to confirm to the rapporteur that we clearly have different views on general education, but thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115143103	Will the rapporteur say more?
ParlaMint-DK_20161115143106	Well, you're welcome. If there is anything else, I would also be happy to answer it, but it is actually very important to focus on the professional level, it is the professional knowledge that forms the core of general education. It is not behavior teaching in certain attitudes or certain ways. It is knowledge, it is the idea of enlightenment that lies behind the idea of general education in our understanding.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115143129	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115143137	Thank you for that, President. Denmark needs young people both now and in the future who can and will help to develop our society. Education is the key to getting active, skilled and responsible citizens and ensuring that the labour market has skilled employees. Society is changing all the time, and things are moving very fast, and our education needs to keep up with and adapt. That is why we, as politicians, also have an obligation to adapt our education programmes, which is why I am very pleased that today we are dealing first with both L 58 and L 59, both of which are the implementation of the reform of secondary education, on which a wide range of parties in this Parliament, after a very large number of negotiating meetings, were agreed just before the summer recess this year. The Left, of course, supports both legislative proposals. With the change, we are now bringing the upper secondary educations into one law. The training will have a common purpose and a greater equality between upper secondary education will be ensured. It is important to stress that secondary education is all aimed at preparing for higher education. One of the main objectives of the reform of secondary education is to tone upper secondary education to the various higher education systems. This has been done by also targeting hf-education towards e.g. the professional Bachelor's degree programmes, and stx, hhx and htx against university courses. With the reform, we are introducing a new and more modern hf programme, giving young people more flexibility and the opportunity to target their hf towards further education, for example. training seminars or, for that matter, professional academies. The reform of upper secondary education aims to improve the quality of all secondary education. With the reform, we have among other things. decided that science and mathematics should be strengthened. This must be done both to support the interest of more pupils in the subjects and to ensure that all pupils in stx get a broad scientific education and a basic scientific knowledge. Young people with linguistic skills must also have good opportunities, and we have therefore introduced good opportunities with the reform for young people to choose language subjects. One of the crucial elements of the quality promise is that we cut down on the number of courses of study. Now there are about 300 courses of study, and in short we have carried out a main cleaning, so that it is now easier for young people to choose direction. With the new reform, we are cutting down sharply on the number of directions and ensuring that more young people receive upper secondary education that will give them the best opportunity in the future as well. It has been crucial for us in the Left that more young people will also be able to choose the right and right path in the first attempt. That is why, with the new reform, we are also making greater demands on young people. Too many young people, unfortunately, have taken high school education without using it altogether afterwards. We are therefore now introducing a requirement of character, and we are thus making demands on young people who choose high school. We have a duty to ensure that more young people experience their youth education as a success. Today, every other student with weak professional qualifications is falling away, and that is a defeat for the young people whom I believe should be avoided. So we are raising the quality of upper secondary education with the new and even stronger reform. I am sure this will benefit both young people, but indeed society too. I am very much looking forward to following the implementation of the reform and the quality boost we have now secured for the high schools. Left votes in favour of both legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115143554	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115143605	Thank you. With the legislative proposals before us, we are at last furthering the implementation of the agreement reached on secondary education almost six months ago. It has been a lengthy legislative process, just as it was a very long process of negotiation, but I must say at the outset that we in the Enhedslist believe that the result achieved by the agreement is not in line with the efforts made. For me, there are a great many problems with the proposed reform of education and I think that we would have been better off without a secondary school reform on this side of a choice, not least in view of the fact that the reform that is now to be implemented must be implemented at a time when very large savings are being made in the field of upper secondary education, and I would say that accompanying a major reform of education with a massive drop in teaching positions is simply a very difficult project. After all, I took part on behalf of the Enhedslisten in most of the negotiations, and I would like to say that we entered into the negotiations in the spring with the hope that, despite the fact that there were quite obvious differences between the parties, it had actually been possible to reach a broad agreement where we put out the whole question of the nature requirements, because it was quite obvious that we would not be able to reach an agreement, but on the other hand found solutions to a number of the challenges that we really face in the field of high school. As you know, this was not the case. I find it incredibly regrettable that we are now faced with a legislative proposal which not only raises demands, so that it becomes more difficult for many young people to be admitted to secondary education, but that we also contribute to increasing the gap between upper secondary education with the character requirements that have been put together. With the marked difference now being introduced in the requirements for access to upper secondary and vocational education, it is our concern that there will be a further devaluation of vocational training. I am aware that that is hardly the intention of anyone, and I shall not accuse anyone of it. It also appears paradoxical, because it has obviously been the government's starting point, that by building a character wall about the upper secondary educations, it could make more young people apply to vocational training. I believe that this strategy will prove to be a failure, and I think it is all the more regrettable that this strategy of character has been implemented, because it also has quite a large and, in our view, negative impact on primary school. The increased grades will contribute to an increased grade race in primary school. The new rules for the assessment of qualifications will very much appear to be incalculable for pupils and parents, and one must assume that when one reads the answers to the hearings, it will make very great demands on a UU guide, which is already massively pressured. It currently works with much less resources than it should have in relation to the relatively many young people who need individual guidance. At the same time, I find it extremely regrettable that the change brings pupils in primary school into the situation that they can be considered not to have passed primary school. As the children's and cultural leaders note in their hearing answer, this is a decisive break with the entire Danish school tradition. So far as the admission requirements are concerned. In the view of Enhedslisten, the reform also contains a number of further problems. In our view, the reduction in the number of courses of study is far too strong, and the very concrete design of the courses of study means that both the creative subjects, with the exception of music, and the beginner language subjects, will be hit quite hard. In the large part of the negotiation process, in which I myself had the pleasure of participating, it was repeatedly stressed from the Minister that although there was a considerable reduction in the number of courses of study, it would be open to exemption. Now that we see the concrete legislative form, we can see that it will be very narrow, there will be exceptions, and there will also be a great many comments about them in the consultation answers. We do not think it makes sense to make mathematics at B level compulsory for the large majority of high school students. We do not like the fact that the exam marks on the basic course should now be counted in the overall exam result. We believe that it is an unfair design that in future the GSK characters can only count in the average of characters if they pull down the cut, and we are also not satisfied with a number of the changes being made on hf. This applies not least to the restrictions on access by hfs to long-term higher education, and this applies to the new possibilities for admission to hfs directly from the 9th grade. Finally, I would like to say that I think it is really a pity, because we in the Enhedslisten are in fact fundamentally positive about what lies in the proposal for the introduction of specialist packages. We think that the proposal for the introduction of project and internship courses is a good one, but if it is combined with the fact that in future students can enter hf directly from the 9th class of the primary school, then we share the concern expressed not least by the representatives of the vocational schools, namely that this, like the character requirement, will help to draw young people away from vocational training. It can be said that these are double considerations. First of all, we need to provide a good hf, and there, as I said, we think there are sensible elements, but the combination with direct access from the 9th class thinks we can have a really unfortunate consequence. All in all, we are facing an enormously difficult reform. I believe that there will be a very urgent need for it to be changed again and, as I assume it has emerged, the Enhedslisten cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115144301	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115144305	I just thought I would use the opportunity to put a question to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur in this Chamber today. It does not surprise me, of course, that Enhedslisten is so vertically opposed to grades. I think that most of the parties found out during the negotiations. I would actually like to ask the Enhedslisten rapporteur just to give a single example of when grades actually do a great deal of good.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115144336	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115144338	Well, it is quite true that we are not enthusiastic about character. There are reports, such as: The Danish high school students' Association has been created to show how it is that there is an increasing grade race, stress the students, so many come into the situation that they experience that they do not dare raise their hand etc. I agree, then, that there is a need for students to get feedback on where they stand. I believe that it could be very, very much resolved with formal evaluations. We have not, of course, proposed in these debates that there should be no grades, but we have thought that much more emphasis should be placed on formal evaluations, and then we have thought that the specific proposal was too high a level for admission to high schools. We believe, as I hope the rapporteur's speech showed, that it is distorting the whole of vocational training.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115144436	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115144439	One thing we all know very well is that in recent years there have been a great many young people, perhaps among them. has chosen the high school path because it has somehow been a trend. This also means that we have seen that, unfortunately, a great many have fallen from under way. For this very reason, can the Enhedslisten's rapporteur not see that it is a very good idea to make demands in advance, rather than that a great many young people may only experience when they are in the process that they cannot actually meet the requirements that are being made to them?
ParlaMint-DK_20161115144517	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115144518	So, I would say this: in general, we think it is a bad thing if young people hopefully start training which they find difficult to complete or which they should not really have started because their preferences were some others. But I think that if we want more young people to follow the way of vocational training and I think that's what the questioner is referring to... then we have to do it by improving vocational training. There are major problems with internships in vocational training; that is what we had to solve instead of building a wall around the high schools. We cannot scare young people into vocational training.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115144605	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then we have reached Mrs Merete Riisager, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115144614	The two legislative proposals we are now considering are one of the most important political work I am proud to have been involved in implementing in my approx. 5 years in the Folketing. This is an example of the fact that diligence pays off and that we can actually influence things in a positive direction. It is no secret that I believe that the idea of our power as politicians is quite excessive if you look at it like this in the world, in the media, in the public. By far most of the legal work is done by the official work, while politicians stand before the camera to accept both rice and praise. But L 58 and L 59 are an example of how politics can mean something. Once they have been completed, we will have better youth education, as a result of political ideas and political work. In the Liberal Alliance, we have been stubbornly working for our upper secondary education to become more different. Young people are different, so our upper secondary education should also be. The upper secondary schools are the academic upper secondary schools, and this should be reflected in the academic content and in the requirements of pupils applying to the secondary school. These legislative proposals, for the first time in many decades, break the basket for how many people go to high school, and this is due to objective and professional requirements. It will be a great pleasure for young people and for the quality of education. For too long it has been the case that high school went in the direction of an extension of the 10th grade. It meant that you have filets on the level to get everyone in. At the same time, it was accepted that around 20 per cent. of the students at high school fell into a black hole after the exam. They had brought with them a professional level that could not be used for much. About half of them went out and worked unskilled, and half started afresh on a vocational training course. At the same time, it brought down the general level so that many young people moved on to long higher education with an inadequate level. With the reform of upper secondary education, admission requirements are defined and the professional requirements of the training are increased. As a young person one should be aware that there is now a requirement for mathematics at level B in almost all versions of high school, and it is worth taking into account when choosing education. I am extremely proud that with the reform of secondary school we will have re-established knowledge and education as the central elements of the secondary school. The upper secondary schools are academic upper secondary education and preparation for further education. Therefore, the depth of professionalism must fill more, and projects, interdisciplinaryness and superficial method-driven pedagogy must fill less. The reform will have a positive impact on the three secondary educations, but hopefully it will also have a positive impact on vocational training. The upper secondary schools have for too long sucked up such a large proportion of a youth year that many of the young people who could have received good training in vocational schools have lost their way in high school instead. It is therefore important that we continue to improve vocational training and make changes so that they become even more attractive. Finally, there is hf, which is fundamentally being changed. Here we have a youth education which focuses primarily on medium-term higher education and which has a more practical and social content. I expect a great deal from this new youth education, although I would have liked to have seen a whole year's academic module added to the two years of education for those starting on hf, but then find out that they would like to move on to a university education. Finally, I would like to thank the Minister for a very good and constructive work, many and good meetings, an objective approach to our incredible number of questions and for constantly developing, one can say, on what has since become the legal basis. Thank you very much. Thanks also to the Danish People's Party and to the Conservatives for their constructive work, which has led us to stand here today and be very satisfied with the political work ahead of us and the future improved level of youth education that we will see in the coming years. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115145022	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then it is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115145032	Thank you. What exactly is the purpose of upper secondary education? For us in the Alternative, upper secondary education is a platform in which many young people have to enter their educational career independently for the first time. Today, many young people experience a performance pressure in their education programmes; national tests in primary school, character requirements and quota systems for higher education and various bonus schemes all push on that development. This helps many young people to struggle with inferiority, with uncertainty, with anxiety and with dissatisfaction. This shows countless studies of the study environment of young people. Most recently today, I saw a study that pointed out that young people use heart medicine when they go to the exam to ease their anxiety. This reflects an educational thinking in which everyone has to learn the same thing at the same time and in the same way, and where professional knowledge needs to be checked, weighed, valued and, above all, compared. We would like to put an end to this idea of education. In the 21st century we no longer have to learn in time, because learning and self-insight and professional development is a personal process. We learn differently, we learn at different times, and we learn at different speeds. A high performance pressure in a one-way education system supports a type of learning that simply restores the society that we have today. But we want another society in the future, we want a society where young people can bring about change, are adaptable, and where they have a good foundation in themselves when they are going to be able to live. We also want creativity to fill more in upper secondary education. Predictable professionalism simply cannot only bring us into line with a better and sustainable society. In many places in the Danish education environment, creative subjects are such an add-on that you can put on and which is subject to the weight of the academic subjects. However, we believe that creativity is just as important for the learner's learning as the academic subjects, and therefore creativity and innovation must play a continuous role in upper secondary education. Then there is the matter of the formation ^ speaking of the question I asked Mrs Marie Krarup earlier. For us in the Alternative, education is about learning to be human in and through society. Life is not linear, and the education system should not try to tell the students. Therefore, in the alternative, we want to focus massively on the development of life in upper secondary education. By life-forming we mean the ability to feel ourselves, we mean self-reliance as well as the individual's ability to put himself in perspective and to look critically at the standards and objectives that govern our society. Formation is also about the ability to embrace the unknown, that which is different from ourselves. General and human formation is essential for us to thrive in an open society, a global society and a changing society. We see far too many examples of citizens having difficulty accepting other ways of life and other ways of being than their own. We need to change that in the future, because it requires the society of the future, and one of the places where we can change it is in our education. Then there's the freedom thing. We would like to grant upper secondary education much more freedom to organise courses of study, forms of teaching, forms of examination, for that matter, and also courses of study. We believe that freedom gives responsibility so that each educational institution can create its own best from the teachers and pupils, the citizens who surround them, the surrounding society. Why, then, do I mention all this that we in the Alternative want from upper secondary education? I do so, of course, because we are here today, working together with L 58 and L 59, and I am trying to do so with these requests for ours, one might say that visions for upper secondary education are pointing out why it is that the alternative cannot support these two legislative proposals and the reform of upper secondary education. We cannot, because we do not believe that we should increase the character race, and that is exactly what we are doing through this new admission requirement, which I quite agree with Enhedslistens Jakob Sølvhøj in is a rather incalculable admission requirement for upper secondary education. We do not do this either through the fact that grades from the basic period count in the average of the Baccalaureate or through the fact that grades on any supplementary courses also count in the average, but only when they count down, as well as noting. I'm just thinking, where did justice go there? It doesn't make any sense at all, and I think it's so unfair. Nor can we support the agreement, because we believe that, in 20 years' time, society will be significantly different from society today, and therefore it makes no sense to target secondary education primarily at scientific higher education, as we see in this secondary education reform, because there is a biased weighting of the academic orientations. There are, at least in relation to the example of six courses of study targeted at the scientific education; there are four that are targeted at the linguistics; there are four that are targeted at the creative, artistic; and there are four that are targeted at the social sciences. Nor can we support the agreement because we believe that young people should help to create the society they dream of, among other things. In this context, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done on this subject. And then we cannot support the agreement because we lack the place and essentiality of formation in this agreement, and it is true that many good things have been written about formation into the actual text of the agreement, because that is actually there, and I was very impressed by that when I read it. At the same time, however, subjects have been abolished, which had just been focused on e.g.: multidisciplinaryity and cooperation, which in our optics is about formation. There we probably disagree with some of the other parties. But we are abolishing AT, and I fully agree that AT did not function as it is doing now, but that those hours are taken away from a multidisciplinary subject and transferred to the trade subjects, we think it is really a pity, because we think it sends out a signal that interdisciplinaryism is less important. Nor can we understand why all high school students, with the exception of those who choose several high-level language subjects, death and torment, should have mathematics at B level. We fully agree that mathematics is important, especially when it comes to further education, but why should a student who is going to study, for example. The Academy of Fine Arts, have mathematics at B level? Who really asks the important questions? Why is it actually that mathematics is a more important attribute, competence for society as a whole, than for example. music is about the educational discussion? Who's asking these questions? Why is mathematics more important to our society than creative competence, for example. Is? Who decides what competences society really needs? Is it just business? We may think that business decides a little bit a lot. So we want some completely different gymnasium educations with much more freedom, much more space for art, creativity, innovation, far, much more focus on actual life formation, life ability, self-reliance, personal insight and professional vision. When we present these views, we are often shot in the shoes, that we sacrifice the academic subjects on the altar of creativity, and that we do not care about professionalism. But professionalism is not only academic professionalism, professionalism is also creative professionalism, and for us to see the two things cannot be separated. We believe that commitment, creativity, curiosity, desire to learn, immerse and space for reflection give us the student that society is actually crying for, and those elements we miss in this agreement, and therefore we cannot support the two legislative proposals today.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115145834	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of brief comments. The first is from Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115145841	Thank you. There were several elements here in the final part of the speech that I would also like to ask about professionalism and education. But I actually pressed in when the rapporteur spoke about the performance culture here, about this unhealthy culture, where you constantly strive for the 12's and even get out there where medicine is needed to deal with the pressure. I do not think anyone wants young people to meditate themselves to deal with the pressure, but I cannot help thinking that we will also be faced with similar pressures when we enter the labour market. For example, I have a big brother who works as a real estate agent, and he only gets paid according to how many homes he sells, so it's a pressure on him. People who sell ads will only be paid according to whether they are now able to sell those ads. There really is a culture of performance. My question to the rapporteur is this: can we not, if we remove everything about performance culture from our education system, run the risk that it will appear as an even greater shock when we enter a labour market where performance is required?
ParlaMint-DK_20161115145944	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115145945	I think that is a very good question and thank you for that. My very clear answer is that we must be able to challenge the performance culture that is also in the labour market, and the young people who will enter the labour market in 10 years' time, in 20 years' time or in 5 years' time, must challenge it. Because it is not necessarily the case that just because it is in the labour market, it is right. In order for us to give our young people an ability to say no to that race, we must give them an insight into themselves. We must teach them to feel themselves, and we must teach them to feel after: When is it enough for me? When do I say no, and when do I say no? I think that there are many examples of public employees today who are exposed to working cultures where I think they should stand up and say: no, thank you, we will not be here anymore. And that is among other things. through education that we must give our students and students the self-confidence and self-reliance that is precisely necessary for them to be able to speak against the culture of performance in the labour market. So that will be my answer to that question.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115150045	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115150046	Thank you. I don't believe we're gonna have a fight with this performance culture, and I'm not interested in it either, if I'm to be honest. Yes, when it comes to the degree of medication, but not when it comes to striving to be the best and the best possible. Because I really believe that this is what drives our society forward. So I just want to ask you this in the end: if the rapporteur had a large law firm and had to hire a new administrator, would the rapporteur not look at which of the graduates came out with good grades and good recommendations from their time as a student? Wouldn't it be perfectly natural to look at it?
ParlaMint-DK_20161115150120	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115150122	I fully agree that we must strive for what we want, that is, what we want and what we want with our lives and with our work, but we must not do that by learning to strive for good grades. One must do so after learning to pursue one's desire, drive, and curiosity and also have tried to make mistakes and learned to get up again. So no, if I had a law firm, I would like to see some assessments of how capable this person is of the relational competences, for example, on a diploma or university diploma. to cooperate, to resolve conflicts. I'd look at that over the grades.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115150203	Then it's Mrs. Merete Riisager, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115150206	Thank you. The rapporteur says that she is in favour of a free choice. We do that in the Liberal Alliance too, but freedom of choice is always linked to responsibility and consistency. Because if there is no responsibility and no consequence, there are some others who have to bear that responsibility and that consequence. There is always a responsibility and a consequence. The only question is whether it is the right person to wear it or some others. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur: is the rapporteur satisfied with the way in which high schools have operated, where entry requirements have been the kind of thing that has blown a little in the wind and that it has therefore been a very, very large proportion of the young people who have completed high school, who, indeed, have ended up in nothing? Many have gone out and have taken unskilled jobs for a long time, and many have had to start all over again in vocational training. It is very frustrating for these young people, whom the rapporteur is so concerned about. It is also fear-provoking to have an education that you cannot use for anything. So has the rapporteur been satisfied with that? Does the rapporteur think this is a good way of working in high school?
ParlaMint-DK_20161115150304	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115150305	No, no, I am not satisfied with that, and I think it is a very good question. But it is clear that my answer to this problem will be different from what is in the high school agreement and, if necessary, the rapporteur's answer to it. Because I believe that we also fail in helping our young pupils in primary school to find out which education to choose. There is both something with guidance that is not very much in the primary school unless it is declared not suitable, but there is also a weighting of the subjects which is biased, because the craft trades are neither quantitatively nor qualitatively weighted in the primary school, compared to what I think is necessary, so that we also create the desire of the pupils to opt for vocational training rather than, for example, vocational training. a secondary education. The teacher doesn't sit at the school-home talks and tell Mom that Peter's Eddermame is good at work, no, it's the mathematics teacher or the Danish teacher who tells Mom that Peter is not very good in, for example. the national test in Danish. There I would like to take action to stimulate the students' desire to choose something other than high school.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115150409	We are so kind in this Parliament that we do not use you. Then it's Mrs. Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115150415	Thank you very much. The rapporteur says that the answer is guidance, and that is a quite classic reply from the left. We must have the hand-held person who has to be more guidance, that is 360 degrees, and then you can ask yourself who the hell it is that has to pay for all the guidance beyond ourselves, that is, you and me and the young people who go on education, and their parents. If the rapporteur, who has been a rapporteur for education for a few years, now looks back just a few years, she will see that it is not a long time since we cut down on the UU guidance in primary school, and that did a broad majority because, after examination, the study had shown that the young people did not use it for anything. Because they asked their mother and father, and they asked their friends. So where does the genius come into a counselling situation that has not been seen in the last 20 years?
ParlaMint-DK_20161115150502	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115150504	It comes in in the sense that it may well be that we do not have to go back to the old model, which has proved not to work, but it does not mean that when you do such an investigation you take everything away because you would rather have nothing. What if you thought a little more creatively and asked if you should replace something else? I myself am a great supporter of the relationship between the teacher and the student, and if you, for example, are involved. In one way or another, some teachers could provide more resources to carry out the task of counselling in relation to the student's further choice of education, so I think that we could actually put some elements into what could provide good guidance. It is not necessarily the case that I stand up here and say that we have to go back to the old system, but I clearly believe that we need to invest more in guidance in primary school. And then we have to find the best system together.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115150546	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jacob Mark, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115150550	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I may seem old sometimes, but in fact I am so young that I have had AT, which was also mentioned in the rapporteur's speech and which I think is from then when the last reform was carried out. Now the rapporteur said a number of things about education. I think that education has in fact been highlighted in what ends up being the final agreement. I agree that there was not much of it from the outset, but it has been, and I actually heard the rapporteur say that. The rapporteur then says that now that AT is being abolished, we are also abolishing the multidisciplinary approach, which is wrong, because it is still mentioned in the law. But then the rapporteur also says that it is being taken back to the professions and that it should harm the formation. Does the rapporteur think that the fact that there are strong individual subjects is detrimental to the education of pupils?
ParlaMint-DK_20161115150646	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115150647	No, I do not think that this harms the education of pupils as such, but I believe that when you do a restructuring, when you take hours away from the interdisciplinary work, you take hours that are targeted interdisciplinary work, but I fully agree that interdisciplinary work has been written into the agreement, you also take the elements of education that lie in being able to work together and that are independent priorities in the existing secondary school agreement and reform. It is believed that if we simply put it into the trade unions, we will ensure that it is formed in that way. I'm not saying that you're not also formed through the trade unions. Of course you do. But I just don't think that's enough. I also believe that education has an important role to play in interdisciplinary cooperation. I therefore agree that AT did not function optimally, at least not everywhere. I have a boy who goes in the first g at the Free Gymnasium, where you do the task of AT really fine, but it is very different from high school to high school. But it's just too bad we're gonna get rid of the hours.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115150748	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115150750	I am glad that the rapporteur says that it does not harm the formation alone by putting it into the professions. In other words, I am glad that the classes for the subjects are still being retained, and I am also glad that there is continued interdisciplinaryism in high school. So what I really want to hear from the rapporteur is that the rapporteur himself says that AT has not worked. That is also what I experienced, and that is what I hear many teachers say is still the experience. And what I hear many students say is their experience, namely that it is unclear what AT is to be used for, and that for the weak pupils in particular, it is unclear what it is that you have to go up to, what synopsis you have to write, whether it gives a good education, or whether it was right to abolish AT.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115150829	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115150830	It was wrong to abolish AT. We would have suggested that one had replaced AT · it may well be, it should be called something else, the name itself is also strange ■ with another subject which actually had a specific educational focus. We have ourselves proposed a subject that we call creative empathy. It may be a little difficult to understand what creative empathy is, but it is a subject which works precisely with the students' self-reliance, with citizenship, with the interdisciplinary collaborations in the same course. So it is a subject that draws not only on some practical philosophy, but also on some practical experience of working together, both between students, but also with external actors who are outside the high schools and with whom you have in mind some networking. These are our concrete proposals on how to replace AT.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115150917	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115150920	Thank you. I have been thinking on several occasions that the alternative rapporteur has a warm heart for the craft sector. That is at least one of the things that was mentioned in the rapporteur's speech here today. I must admit that I also have a warm heart for the craft sector, but I cannot entirely follow the rapporteur of the Alternative when it is said at the same time that one cannot understand why mathematics should be raised in terms of quality. Because I think that these two things are very closely linked, and I would really like to hear the rapporteur's views on this. So, what is the reason why the rapporteur says in his speech that one would like to give more space to the craft sector, the creative professions, and then drosle mathematics down? Does it not have a negative impact on the craft sector?
ParlaMint-DK_20161115151014	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115151015	It is clear that what I said must be understood to mean that we do not want mandatory mathematics B for all high school students, as it is in the agreement now, except those who take these high-level language subjects because there will be some who do not need mathematics B for their further education. For example: one might ask if someone who is going out to read music at the Academy of Music needs mathematics B. I think that's a really good question. Those who go on eux and are going out to be craftsmen must, of course, have mathematics at the level required for them to understand their craftsmanship education and work on it. So this isn't supposed to mean we don't recognize the need for mathematics. But we just don't recognize that all students in the broad cut, you might say, must have mathematics B.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115151100	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115151101	I think I will move on to another area because I simply do not think we can agree. What I was trying to move into was to find something where we had common ground. Something that the rapporteur also mentioned was the issue of the nature requirements, which I can well hear that the alternative is very opposed. Does the rapporteur not recognise that there are a great many students today who are actually leaving because they are unable to meet the professional requirements that are being made when they start high school?
ParlaMint-DK_20161115151132	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115151133	Yes, I accept that. I also heard the rapporteur's question earlier on from Mr Seligman. Jakob Silverhøj, whether there were examples that grades can be good. Yes, they are for those who are good and like... come from homes where you are used to working academically professionally and are good at what may be at the high end of the competence scale, which is good at getting good grades and which is driven by it. But grades are really not very good for those students who are just not skilled enough, who may find it difficult to lift it up. We need to find other ways to motivate the students, and there is plenty of research that indicates that grades in themselves do not motivate and do not strengthen professionalism. There is research comparing different types of feedback methods, grades with individual feedback, which strengthens professionalism much more and creates much more well-being. And I think we should look at that as inspiration.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115151228	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it is Mrs Lotte Rod, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115151241	Education is the most important thing. Education can set the individual free, open doors, provide opportunities so that one can pursue one's dreams, no matter which family one comes from. That is why education and high schools, which we are discussing today, are also about much more than just Danish and mathematics, because the high school also has a job in dressing young people to be critical fellow citizens with social responsibility. Quite a lot has been said today about making students better, but if you really want to make students better, you should start by dropping the savings that are being dragged down over high schools now. For what really matters is the good teaching, and that is that as a student you get a proper feedback on your tasks, so that you can learn from the mistakes you have made and can become more skilled. The most important thing in the reform from my point of view is that we are now opening up new test forms and for grade-free first-g classes, because this can help to focus more on motivation and less on character races. We will also, in fact, provide infinite opportunities for interdisciplinary cooperation, because there must now be interdisciplinary courses throughout high school, you have to do tasks in it, and that will be part of the oral test of the study orientation project. Then we also provide new opportunities in hf and ensure that hf provides access to all higher education. Then there are a number of points where we have drawn the government in the right direction in relation to the original proposal. After all, we managed not to get a grade requirement, but to make a solution with a qualification assessment, so that all pupils who are ready for training now have the right to attend high school if they are given a second degree. And we should really stop talking about training preparation or not training preparation, but if I like the model of training preparation, it is because it is not a firm character, but an overall assessment, where, if you are motivated, you can be ready, even if you do not have the figure. Then we have succeeded that it has not become quite as tight in terms of study and mathematics as the government had played out with. It is still much tighter than it would have been if the Radical Left could have certainly had quite alone, and we will therefore also keep an eye on the fact that there will be local courses of study, as we have agreed on the possibility that there will actually be more pupils choosing languages and that the creative subjects will be as important as the courses of study that have been written into the agreement. Then we've gotten some target control out. I believe that schools must have a great deal of freedom, and it has therefore been important to us that only general objectives should be set with which the schools themselves can continue to work in the way that it now makes sense in the individual school, so that the form cannot be misused to draw increased governance down from above. So with the Prime Minister's words, you could say that it's a fine little deal we've made with each other. But if you really wanted something to do with the students, you should drop the savings, and at least you should have set aside money for further education, when we now ask the teachers to teach differently in mathematics, when we make new forms of testing, when we want the evaluation to be more forward-looking, at least if you want it to be good, and we want it to be good.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115151708	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jacob Mark, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115151719	Today we are discussing the reform of high school, it has been a long time in the process. High schools were also discussed before I was elected to parliament. I have even been involved in demonstrations against reform before I joined the Folketing. Then it was really exciting all of a sudden to sit in the negotiations and have the opportunity to influence it in a direction that I thought was right and that SF's thought was right. For me, it has been important that the reform of the secondary school should first and foremost help to ensure the future education of pupils. So not even more focus on the labour market and what it needs; not even more focus on individual competences; not a one-sided focus on goals or making students exactly something, but a focus on making students into someone. It's been my pointer all the way through, and it's been what the SF has been fighting for. And I am pleased with many of the SF images that are being adopted now and that are being rolled out over all the Danish colleges and commercial schools. We managed to keep access from hf to university, and we also managed to keep the annual grades out of hf. In addition, there are now projects and internships and more targeted lines on hf. Actually, I think that's gonna be really exciting. And I actually think that when hf gets as exciting as I think it does, we'll have to think over and over again about how we get more young people to take vocational training, because I think this is going to be a really popular education. We have helped to ensure mandatory guidance during the SRP, the larger written task. Homemade companies have had crowned days because they have made a lot of money on TV 2 - it's no secret, for example. Am I doing it right, am I doing it wrong? Unfortunately, when you buy something, only those who can afford to buy it will get help. With this mandatory guidance under the SRP, it will be for everyone. Not only that. Nor do you leave the students alone; in fact, the students will be able to deliver the preliminary product and get some feedback on it so that they learn while they write, and then finally go up to an exam where they also learn while they are being examined. I think that puts learning more in focus than the character. There's gonna be a big shot. This is the first time, as I have just been able to read myself to it, in the history of Denmark, that it is written into a high school agreement, namely that there is going to be a great experiment with grade-free classes. It is an attempt that has been made at several high schools in Denmark, where you drop those current posture characters and instead provide continuous feedback, so there is more time for teacher and student collaboration. This is something that has been very successful and the places where it has been used have continued to be used because one could see that it increased the skills of the students. It's gonna be a big shot. There's gonna be new test forms. For it is clear that when the world around us develops, the way the students are going to the exam must develop accordingly. There will be less focus on target management. Some of the mistakes that we have learned from the reform of primary school with its too many goals from Christiansborg, which then became even more objectives decentralized, we got out. Instead, we set a common course for the conciliation circle that we must reduce target management. We need to have more confidence that out there you can find out what you are trained for and have confidence that the students really want to learn. We're abolishing AT. It was a little fun for me to sit in that conciliation circle, because I was the only one who had had AT for natural reasons. I have experienced, and when I've talked to students and teachers, they have also seen many of them at least as something chaotic with a lot of good intentions about interdisciplinary and collaboration, yet something where it was smokingly unclear what the purpose really was. You went to the exam in a synopsis that you didn't really know how to write and why to write it. With this model you need methods and science theory in the SRP, the larger written task, just like you do at the university. With this model you still have an oral exam for the SRP, and you have continuous interdisciplinary courses when the teachers and teachers think it makes sense. It is confidence in the professional skills of the teachers. I also believe that the individual subjects are formed. So an even more important thing. All high schools must work with the mental well-being of the students. For SF it has been heartblood that young people can get free psychological help around all municipalities in Denmark. It has succeeded in introducing into 20 municipalities. Now we are also getting the idea that all high schools should work continuously to ensure the mental well-being of the students. On a day like today, when Politiken has presented a study that shows that record numbers of young people take heart medicine before going to exams, and that this is especially happening in high schools, I also think it is more important than ever that we make an effort to strengthen the mental well-being of students. Because without well-being, you can't learn. I can keep doing that. It's exciting to have been involved in doing something where you actually think you've gotten a lot of good through. Does that mean everything's okay? No, it doesn't. There are still many struggles to continue to ensure confidence that teachers and pupils actually want to; to continue to ensure that we do not bombard education with objectives; to continue to ensure that the courses do not have to be similar, that there may be different courses of study. But we're gonna take those fights, and we can take them because we're in the conciliation circle. The biggest challenge, however, I think, is that there are more tomorrow or when this is adopted there will be no high school and commercial school than there was yesterday. And this is a challenge because it means that the remaining group of students who are not in an upper secondary education in Denmark will become larger. It is a problem because you get a better life after you have taken a youth education course. There is a greater chance of becoming part of the community; there is a greater chance of getting a job. That is why I believe that the most important task for politicians right now is to ensure that there is a strong offer to the residual group that will be. That you take them by hand and ensure that there are strong post-schools, strong production schools, strong 10th classes where they can be prepared and where there is time for them to be ready to take an upper secondary education. I think that is an important task. The second equally important task is to ensure that we have funded training. And I have to say this because it is simply difficult to implement a reform on top of savings. I think we helped make that mistake when the reform of the primary school was being carried out. You wanted a lot of good things, but you didn't have enough money to do it. I don't think it's near what we're talking about here and then anyway. With the re-priority contribution, there are 1,000 teachers to be fired. This means that making a reform will be more difficult because the skills of teachers will be reduced. That is why I believe that it is now with the Finance Act, which is likely to be the country within a few days, but also with the forthcoming financial laws, that it will be the most important task to invest again in education for the benefit of pupils, teachers and, as such, also for the benefit of our society as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115152507	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115152519	Thank you. It has actually been a great pleasure to sit here today and listen to the speeches and see you all again, although I must admit that there was a stage in these negotiations where I thought we had seen just enough of each other. Honestly, I have to admit that. It was a very long and intensive negotiation process which took place in a very small room in the Ministry, but through it we came, and I think in many ways this agreement shows some of the finest of our democracy, namely that so different starting points can be reconciled in an overall agreement that is as broad as this agreement is. I think that is a great strength and value of our democracy. We must also say, if we are to be quite honest, that the compromises are sometimes a little messed up, and I think that was also expressed when we presented this agreement. In any case, we had a little different interpretations of individual elements, but peace be it. Luckily, it's by far the most that unites in this new deal. In the Conservative People's Party, we are very satisfied with the result we achieved. We have largely met the wishes and demands that we had, although, as the previous rapporteur said, that is not all we are getting through. In particular, we are pleased that we have got rid of AT. Unlike the rapporteur from the SF, I am not quite so young that I myself have had AT in high school. I was just a vintage too old, which I know the rapporteur welcomes, so he can say that he is the only one who has actually had it. Nevertheless, I have heard from a lot of students how much frustration there has been over this course, and we are getting rid of that now. At the same time, we are very pleased that we will have far fewer courses of study. We are doing the young people a disservice by allowing them to go through a course of training so that they can get out and lack the skills needed to apply to higher education. So we are very happy and satisfied with that. In addition, of course, we are also pleased that in future the requirement to attend high school will also be higher. If we are to give young people more opportunities in the future, the professional level in high school must be raised. Now we say to the young people: if you can get a cut of over 6, you are absolutely sure to go to high school if you want. We have also fought a great deal to maintain and strengthen general education, which is so crucial, in high school. On this point, I can mention that a new compulsory examination has been successfully introduced in writing Danish, which basically testifies to the value of the Danish language. I saw today that these 20 new bids for Danish values had been published, and there I also saw that the Danish language was one of them, and that is why I think it is certainly worthwhile that we now have a compulsory exam in writing Danish. We managed to pull this out with the merger of history, religion and ancient knowledge. It was planned that the three subjects should be included in the same subject group and that there should be only one examination. We got rid of that, and we are pleased about that, because high school students need to focus very much on education subjects. They give them an in-depth understanding of why we are here and how we have come here. Our common values, culture, traditions, way of thinking and understanding of history and democracy, or what we call formation in one word, are and remain one of the cornerstones of conservative education policy. We feel a special obligation to pass these values on to future generations. Everything cannot be right or equally important. Something in our society is more important than anything else, while something, yes, is just wrong. In those words, I would like to thank the other rapporteurs for their good constructive cooperation, and here I would like to send a very small greeting to the rapporteurs from the Liberal Alliance, the Danish People's Party and the Left, with whom we shared many views in these debates. Thank you for a good negotiating process, and of course we support the Conservative People's Party on this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115152917	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then I give the floor to the Minister for Children, Education and Equal Opportunities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115152932	Thank you for your comments and, above all, thank you to the parties who have chosen to be behind the high school settlement and the two legislative proposals we are presenting today. I would like to thank you for a very fruitful, some might also say heated dialogue and discussion along the way, since we from the government launched our initiative for the high school reform and until we landed the agreement a month and a half later. I therefore agree with the rapporteurs who have also said in this Chamber that we spoke against each other, we were trying to find the common goods that will help make our future gymnasium education strong for the benefit of young people who will be attending our high schools and at our hf in the future. And I have no doubt that the legislative proposals we are discussing today will be of great importance for the next generations. Every summer, when the cherry trees spring out and the sun's rays begin to warm our winter-tired bodies, Denmark's streets are also often filled with truckloads of jubilant and euphoric students. The rest of us wave and honk, but I also think it has to be said that when the party is over, when the relief over the exam is over and evaporated, there are a lot of the young people who meet the reality and also some choices they have to make themselves, a doubt and a joy of expectation, but also sometimes a fear of what it is then that you have to use it for. For a great many of the newly proposed students have not necessarily successfully completed their exams, have not necessarily been given the basis which will enable them to move on to the education they want. Some of them may have held on more to social life during the three years of high school than focused on the dream of a student's hat and high school education and on further reading. When I say that, it is because I also think that we should be honest about the ways that are through our education system. We know that a great many young people today choose the general high school, because the comrades do. Maybe that's what Mom wants, Dad wants, or maybe it's the feeling that you have three years, where you can sort of settle down and figure out what you want. There are also several who have chosen the upper secondary school, although they have weak professional qualifications and do not necessarily have the intention of continuing their studies. And then there's a reason for the fact that the doubt may turn up when the student parties are over. There are also many of those who have weak professional qualifications who do not reach the point where they get their hat on their head, but fall off along the way because they cannot meet the professional requirements that are being made. There are quite a few of the young people who take a baccalaureate who start a vocational training course within a year or two after they have received the hat. I really think that we should be honest and ask the question whether they might not have been better served by obtaining more precise guidance, a more precise professional description of what is required of our youth education, so that they might have considered once more whether they took what the comrades did or whether they actually chose what they would like to work with in the future, i.e. whether a vocational training or an eux, combining the student hat with a slippery letter, might have been the way forward. Because there are many ways to go when you as a young person finish primary school and have to make choices about education and jobs. And high school is just one of those roads. We have our three upper secondary educations, we have hf, we have our vocational education and training programmes, we have our eux programmes and we also have other paths for both education and for jobs. And one way is no better than the other. For me, these laws we are discussing today and the high school agreement we made before the summer break are also about tackling the root of the nettle and ending the education snobbery. It is also a question of being honest with young people about the professional requirements of our various youth education programmes. It is also about getting young people to stand up, reflecting on their choices once more, considering whether they choose what they want and, hopefully, making more young people choose correctly for the first time. It is no secret that I think it is necessary to tighten up both the professional requirements and the requirements of general education, and that, as politicians, as a high school institution, as educational institutions are generally honest, as to what kind of professional demands we make on young people. I very much believe that one of the ambitions that I and the government had with the reform of high school, namely to make the choice clearer for young people and to emphasise that upper secondary education is just one of the paths to go and that the upper secondary education is very much in order to continue reading, is also clear in the agreement we have made. If we take the introduction of the secondary school's final examination, the introduction of stricter admission requirements, then it is not really about hitting someone on top of his head, as I hear a little that the two parties outside believe that we do. Then it is about sending out a clear signal that we need to be better at raising all young people, that we need to have a lot more young people in the past in the education process, that we need to break the negative social legacy. And it is not by relaxing the professional requirements of our youth education, but by lifting the students professionally during their primary school hours. The purpose of the primary school's graduation is to signal very clearly to our primary school, to our basic education, that it is their task to lift everyone At the same time, of course, we must also signal to the students that the efforts they make in primary school right up to the test period are also important in terms of what opportunities they have in the future. The reinforced access conditions must ensure that the young people who will be admitted to our upper secondary education are also ready to follow the course and to complete the course. With the stricter requirements for the qualification assessment with an average of at least 5 if you want a htx, hhx or stx, and at least 4 for access to the 2-year-old hf after the 9th grade, and the fact that the students have to confirm the professional level at their graduation in primary school, we also become much more precise about what is required professionally to take a secondary education. It is a reform, and it is two legislative proposals that we are discussing today, where we are addressing upper secondary education and creating a more clear profile for each of three directions as well as for hf and a stronger focus on both the professionality and general education of our upper secondary education. It is both a reform in which we demand young people, but it is also a reform in which we take them seriously and in which we also take seriously what demands they will be met with in their further education and work and in their further lives. That is why it is also important to strengthen both general education and the level of professional knowledge for pupils, because we see today that there are many high school students who are not well dressed for higher education and who are subsequently destitute. Today's high school is also characterized by too many and manageable courses of study. This means that there are a great many young people who actually get the student hat, perhaps also with good grades, but who subsequently find out that they lack exactly the subjects they need to enter higher education as they would like. The fact that we have had up to 300 different courses of study has also made it incalculable for some of the students to choose the course of study which suits them exactly and which points to the education they want. Therefore, I also think that the clear structure and clean-up that we have done in the study directions will make it easier and simpler for students to choose the direction of study that opens doors for them in the future. We ensure that all the academic courses have a high level of professional competence and that the courses offer the opportunity for close professional interaction and professional reflection and provide more room for the individual's choice and more space for the subjects to have a strength and professional competence, even if they are not courses of study. This is one of the things I really think has been the problem with the previous reform of secondary education, namely that we had a little division of the subjects, so some subjects were considered more important than other subjects, rather than looking at both the professional depth of the individual subjects, but also the interaction between them. Then we turn up the science subjects and make mathematics at B level mandatory. We also turn up the language-enhancing students with three or four language courses at A level or at other levels. This is important, because we need more young people who choose more languages, so that not only young people who choose purely linguistic directions, but also young people who choose other professional combinations, are also encouraged to choose more languages. With the latest reform, the number of pupils with three or more language subjects has fallen from 33 per cent. at 4%. It is disastrous when we know that we live in a global world where language gives the key to the future, whether it is about travelling, about the job situation, or it is about being able to live in the wider world. That is why I also think it is important that, with the reform of the upper secondary school and the two legislative proposals we are discussing today, we should allow you to get a discount if you have to use that expression in order to get some more linguistically well-founded pupils. Then we have the hf. The Hf is, after all, the upper secondary education today, from which most students fall. It is the upper secondary education, where most of the students continue to study afterwards and where those who continue to study are less able to complete their studies. It's a challenge at hf today. This does not change the fact that hf is a strong education, also a strong model breaker education, but if it is to be an even stronger model breaker education in the future, we must ensure that there is not up to 30% falling off in the process. Then we must make sure, as we do with the legislative proposal, that we modernise the hf, target it, professionalise it much more, thereby also creating a clearer direction for the future hf. Hf gets a stronger professional profile. Hf is targeted to a large extent by those students who will continue to study at professional colleges or professional academies, and if you choose to take an extended course package or a superstructure, it also provides access to long-term higher education. We're getting a stronger professional gravity. We are getting a stronger professional orientation in the hf, and I hope and expect that this will mean that this upgrade to the modern hf can help to secure us against the excessive apostasy we have on the hf today, that is to say that hf education will be a stronger education for the young people who choose that path in the future. It may be that you become more professionally skilled in a narrower field, but rather than that we have so many young people who fall away from it. The Hf will also continue to be an education for those who, for one reason or another, have started training late, which is why it is also important that the hf can both raise their young pupils professionally, but can also raise those pupils who may have been in the labour market or in other educational programmes before entering a hf. The two legislative proposals we are discussing today are part of an ambitious reform, and I think it is important that we are ambitious on behalf of young people. It is their future, but in a sense it is also the future of all of us, because the ballast with which we give young people is also the ballast that they will use to shape our society. I am also very much looking forward to the committee procedure and the further process. If it is characterised by the same energy, the same cooperation and the same commitment that I saw during the negotiations, then I am sure that we will be able to create a very good starting point for future gymnasium education and its reform, and hopefully also send a clear signal to those who have to implement it and work with it, that this is something we are behind with a broad majority in the Folketing, that is to say that it is something we will fight for. We will also fight for them when adjustments may need to be made and we need to look at lobes and parts of it. Because this is about ensuring a stronger high school for those students who are going to high school to continue their studies so that they can get out and take their dream education and get into a labour market that demands them. I am sure that with the legislative proposals today we will give them a better starting point and some better conditions for completing an education, but most of all to be able to live that life, take the education and get the job that they dream of. Whether it is a bricklayer, a nurse, a musician, a doctor, a financial economist or a civil engineer, we have become more precise in terms of professional requirements and more precise in terms of the various profiles of our youth education. And we do away with the education snobbery that has helped to put some young people in educational boxes where they have not felt they belong. Thank you for your support along the way. I look forward to further cooperation with the parties of the Danish Parliament to make the reform of the secondary school work for the benefit of young people.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115154339	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jacob Mark, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115154345	Thank you for that, and thank you for a good speech and good cooperation. It is not because I want to spoil the good atmosphere, because I am actually very pleased with this reform, but, as I said in my speech, I am concerned about the savings that have been made here over the high schools and the commercial schools. Last year, the government decided to say that we are now, at least for a while, peace ing the vocational schools, and then we are removing the savings on them. The argument at the time was that we had also adopted a vocational training reform which requires something, that is to say it takes something to adapt; it requires something to get started with something new. It is, after all, the same thing that we are asking for the remaining youth education programmes now. So does the Minister think that there is a difference between the situation of vocational training and the situation of youth education now, and does the Minister not think that it would be appropriate at least for a time to remove the re-prioritisation contribution for the secondary and commercial schools so that they can have peace to implement this reform?
ParlaMint-DK_20161115154445	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115154448	It's always nice to have more money to implement something too. I was also very honest and clear from the outset that the country's economy does not look that way. This also means that the reform we agreed together has been financed within the framework, including the initiatives for continuing training, which the radical rapporteur asked about where we have jointly allocated over 400 million. kr. to the area. Where I think there is a difference between vocational training and vocational training, vocational training had seen a decline in the number of pupils over a long period of time. So we have gone from a situation where there was no search. On the other hand, in the field of gymnasium, we are dealing with institutions which have had a much larger search of pupils over recent years and have also built up a very solid economy if we look at most institutions. That is why I think we need to talk about a different solidity, and that is actually what the previous government reports showed, namely that in the field of upper secondary education as well as in education in general there is a basis for looking at whether the money could not be used in a more appropriate way, in other words, to make it stretch a little longer. And that is the task facing us now.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115154552	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115154555	Thank you. If it turns out what I think it will be that the likely dismissal of these 1,000 teachers around the country's high schools means that it is simply difficult to implement the reform, we hear that they are pressed out there, will one then, as one did on vocational training, where one spared them, because one said that now they should have time to get started, including by the Left and the government, could consider the same way of saying: Now this high school reform should have time to get started, and so do we spare them these savings?
ParlaMint-DK_20161115154626	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115154628	We are dealing with a high school sector which has some very solid profits and has had it for a number of years. Of course, there are geographical differences. That is also why we took the initiative, together last autumn, to increase the geographical basic subsidy so that we strengthen, support the economy of some of the smaller institutions. However, I think that there is a big difference between the area of vocational training, because we have a broad common objective of achieving a minimum of 25%, since 30%. In the field of higher education, we have not experienced this flight of pupils over a number of years, and this puts the institutions in a different economic situation, although it will of course also require extra attention in some places to be paid to how administratively organized.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115154710	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the legislative proposals be sent to the Committee on Children's and Education. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161115154726	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday, 16 November 2016, at 3 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
