ParlaMint-DK_20160602100041	The meeting is open. From members of the Danish Parliament Thomas Jensen and Astrid Krag, who are on leave, I have received notification that from 4 June 2016 they will be able to rejoin the Tinget. The duties of Anne Paulins and Kasper Roug as temporary members of the Folketing shall cease to apply from that date. From a member of the Folketing, Andreas Steenberg, who is on leave, I have been informed that from 11 June 2016 he can again meet at the Tinget. Johannes Lebech's duties as a temporary member of the Folketing shall cease to apply from that date. Unfortunately, we have some technical problems with the voting system, which does not concern the count itself, but only the display of what for you is the right board. It marks the vote on your seats, but shows the wrong result. Did you get it? As far as results are concerned, you can look at the left board and look at the display in your own seats, and I will read the results as usual.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602100204	The item listed as No. Forty on the agenda can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602100216	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled. There is one proposal. Motion for a resolution (Doc. V 79 by Christian Juhl (EL), Mette Gjerskov (S), Claus Kvist Hansen (DF), Michael Aastrup Jensen (V), Mette Bock (LA), Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT), Martin Lidegaard (RV), Holger K. Nielsen (SF), Nase Khader (KF), Aaja Chemnitz Larsen (IA), Magni Arge (T) and Sjúrður Skaale (JF). A vote can be taken. The vote is closed. In favour, 112 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF, and KF)[, against, 0 abstentions] voted in favour or against. Proposal for adoption No V 71 adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602100339	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602100404	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. In favour 77 (S, DF, V and KF), against 33 (EL, LA, ALT, RV and SF)[, neither in favour nor against voted 0]. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602100444	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602100504	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. In favour 85 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 25 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF)[, neither in favour nor against 0]. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602100535	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602100558	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 84 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 25 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF)[, neither in favour nor against 0]. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602100628	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602100643	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 110 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF, KF and IA)[, against, 0 abstentions 0] voted in favour and against. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602100709	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602100727	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. in writing. - 99 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 10 (EL and IA)[, abstention]. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602100802	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left, would like to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602100820	Thank you. Now we are at the third reading of the proposal for a directive on the relocation of DIIS, and we will soon see that there will be a majority against relocation. We in the Left can only deeply and deeply regret this. Above all, we can deeply regret the behaviour that we have experienced from the largest party here in the Folketing, namely the Social Democracy, in this matter. We saw it at first reading, trying to say that there was agreement on the desire to relocate state jobs. It is generally agreed that West Denmark should get started so that not everything is centred in East Denmark. But what are we experiencing in the process? We find that people are constantly craved to make bad excuses for suddenly jumping from that point of view and then voting against when it starts to come to the concrete. For the situation with regard to DIIS is that there are no factual arguments that it is not possible to move it to Aarhus. DIIS is a research institution which, in the eyes of the Social Democratic Party, cannot be moved to Denmark's second largest city, which cannot be moved to one of the cities where DIIS already has a close and constructive collaboration with Aarhus University. Then you try to invent various bad excuses. One invents excuses that there is a need to be able to enter the Deadline at night until one finds out that Aarhus has a TV studio for both Danish Radio and TV 2. Well, then you find out that argument you can't use. Then you try to find other arguments, like it's a long way from an airport. So, if you go in and look at what is going on in Aarhus with all the international researchers who visit Aarhus today, it is a bit funny that they can come to Aarhus if it is so impossible to get to and from Denmark's second largest city. Then you find a third argument when you find that the second argument does not hold up either, namely that it is because they hold very many meetings with the Folketing. One almost gets the impression that they are holding daily meetings with us members of parliament. I can now reveal that I have been in the Folketing for 11 years, a number of years with a focus both on the EU area and on foreign affairs. I've had a total number in zero meetings with DIIS researchers so far. Then you find out that that argument doesn't hold up either. So what do you do? Then they say: 'Oh, no, but then there are a lot of former Foreign Ministers who have been out to say that it would really be a shame to move this from the largest city to the second largest city. You invent excuses for excuses, and when you find out they don't last, you just invent new ones. The fact is that we are in a situation where we have to say that if we really mean something with a better balance in Denmark, we also need to put some action behind words. And so if you look at the entire research environment, if you look at people who are graduated at Aalborg University, at Aarhus University and at University of Southern Denmark, then they find it very difficult to get a research job in the West Danish. So we want to change that trend. We want to change the trend of having to go to the capital to get these jobs. We think it is important that there is a better balance in Denmark in this area. If we go in and look at the issue that I have heard someone come forward with in the debate, namely that it will only help Aarhus, I just have to say that all experience shows that when you relocate state jobs, it will benefit the whole area around the precise location. It's the way people want to place themselves, settle all over the area. So all in all, this is going to be a huge gain for West Denmark; it will be a huge gain in terms of the whole desire that the thing about getting better balance in the country is not just something we are talking about, but that it really is something we are passionate about, and not least is something we want to complete. Unfortunately, I have to admit that not only has the Social Democratic Party tried to invent these bad excuses during the process, but we have also seen that even prominent social democrats, such as the political rapporteur, Mr President. Nicolai Wammen, who unfortunately is not here in the Chamber either today, has been totally invisible in this debate. I find that sad, I think, really, really sad, if you share the message and share the view that we should have a better balance for Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602101322	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Mogens Jensen, Social Democrats, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602101340	Some of us have wondered why the government is going to show that they are once again in a minority on a matter here in the Assembly. And when that happens on the basis of such easy and invented arguments as you, sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen is joining the Assembly Hall here today, it's amazing. We do not need to invent bad excuses to refuse the relocation of DIIS to Aarhus, because you can just take the government's own answers to the questions that we have asked. Quite a lot of questions have been asked in this matter, because we were actually trying to find a solution with the government. Because there is a very good research environment in Aarhus, we know that and we also want to help strengthen Aarhus as a city and as a research city and exploit the resources that are in the city. It has been a prerequisite every time the Social Democrats have agreed to the government's relocation plans, as we have done in general. Time and again we have supported the government's relocation plans, but we have always said that there must be objective and professional sense in it and that it must be financially linked. And this is where the government has gone completely wrong when it comes to the relocation of DIIS. The figures speak for themselves. We have asked how many of the main partners of DIIS are the people with whom you have meetings; those with whom you are physically in contact; those with whom you have to advise; those with whom you have to hold conversations with the people located in the Aarhus area and how many are located in the metropolitan area. And I can say that the response from the government was clear: of the collaborators you meet with and we've got the figures for it too; it's about 2,600 meetings a year • 98 percent. So placed in Copenhagen, while 2%. is located in Aarhus. Those numbers speak for themselves. Should you start moving the 98 percent. meetings to Aarhus, this would result in a total extra travel time for employees of over 12,000 hours corresponding to 8 years' work. Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen, that doesn't add up. Again, we have supported the government's relocation plans. The Socialists believe that there should be a better balance in the distribution of government jobs in Denmark, but there must of course be some sense in it. Well, then, sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen has made all sorts of arguments and has pointed out examples where research institutions have been located outside the capital cities. And yes, you have done that in many places, of course, and we also have a very good research environment in Aarhus. But in all these places, when it comes to foreign policy research institutions, the National Research Institute is also located in the places where Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen has pointed to the capital. Because that is where you work with embassies; that is where you work with ministries; that is where all the foreign visitors come and have to meet. This relocation doesn't make sense. But we gave the government an opportunity. We gave the government the opportunity to move a division of DIIS to Aarhus, so that the research skills that are in Aarhus were exploited, so that Aarhus became more closely linked to DIIS. It rejected the government, you wouldn't make a deal. So in the end, when we vote today, remember that it is the government that has made sure that there is no increased research competence, increased resources in this area for Aarhus, because you would not enter into an agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602101746	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602101752	Thank you for that, and thank you for reminding us of the debate at first reading, where it was clear from numerous examples that there are therefore research institutions outside the capitals of other European countries: Great Britain, Norway and so on. In addition, the Socialist rapporteur also mentions that one could make this solution by placing such about ten researchers or something like that in Aarhus. If the Socialist rapporteur has read the draft law, and I think the Socialist rapporteur has done so, then the Socialist rapporteur will also know that we are proposing a concrete solution which states that a branch can be set up in Copenhagen. So that means that we will find a solution with regard to the physical meetings, the major conferences and the like that are obviously wanted in Copenhagen. Fine, you can make a small branch for that, so it can take place in Copenhagen. So the argument about these physical meetings just doesn't work out. And then the rest could, i.e.. The research unit itself, of course, is located in Aarhus. It's a pure win-win situation. But there it is that the Social Democratic Party has become afraid of its own shadow and has apparently allowed the political rapporteur to fly somewhere because he obviously does not dare to answer for the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602101904	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602101905	I understand that the rapporteur of the Left is very busy bringing the political rapporteur of the Social Democratic Party into this matter. So now I am the rapporteur on this bill, so it is quite natural that I should be standing here on the platform. I understand that sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen may have some regional interest in making this case about a particular person. I actually think that is a little unconfident and not very proper. Because this is about discussing the facts, and the facts are on whether Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen jumps or dances at 98%. of this institution's users live in the metropolitan area and are housed in the metropolitan area. Here we go, sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen from somewhere near Mols, so he knows what a molbo story is. It would be a mere molbo story to move DIIS from Copenhagen to Aarhus, but I regret that we could not make an agreement with the government to strengthen the research environment in Aarhus by putting a department of DIIS in the city.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602102013	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602102014	I must admit that I also regret the fact that the Social Democrats will not vote in favour so that we could achieve a better balance in the country, including in terms of research jobs. The reason I mention Mr. Nicolai Wammen over and over again is that I have a quiet hope that once you have been mayor in Aarhus, you can see the arguments from Aarhus. They do not understand at all that one cannot place a research institution in Denmark's second largest city, one of the largest university cities in Europe. This is simply not understood. I must admit that I have not heard a single factual argument against it, especially when you look at it in relation to the rest of Europe, where it is possible to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602102049	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602102050	Once again, I find it strange that the rapporteur is raising such a heated debate here at the third reading, since we were told that the government would make a different offer as to which jobs could then be relocated from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Where's that bid? - Sir... Michael Aastrup Jensen did not come up and tell us what other jobs you would then move out, because you promised you would. In any case, the Folketing should remember that when we vote for this bill here today, we vote for it. based on the fact that the government has missed a chance to ensure that part of DIIS was located in Aarhus and could help strengthen the excellent Aarhus research environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602102133	Thank you to the rapporteur. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? Here you go, sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602102143	I now think that this DIIS part should be moved to Silkeborg, which is where I live, or maybe to Roskilde, which is where I am elected quite personally, and I would get a pat on the back of the mayor if I got DIIS for Roskilde. Or it could also be moved to Nuuk, they lack lots of jobs in Nuuk, and it could be really exciting every time we had to hear an international lecture so to go to Nuuk. It's a great place to be. I think that the Socialists have been concerned about this issue and I thank them for that. They have even considered, as I have done myself, to offer the government to make a subdivision of DIIS in Aarhus. Then Randersborgmesteren and Aarhusborgmesteren or the former can get a little pat on the shoulder there, and then the rest of us can feel the same way, that if we are not just in Copenhagen, we have a chance to go to Aarhus. There's no new jobs in this... nobody. We'll move them around. That's what's interesting. So I would like to say to the government: you are petty, undynamic when you do not see that Mr. Mogens Jensen gives you an outstretched hand to find the Columbus egg to find the egg that might make sense. A couple of college jobs couldn't be that expensive.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602102258	You still don't curse away, I have to tell the Enhedslisten. It was said yesterday and I repeat it today. You don't swear from Parliament's platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602102305	I know that, because I sit in the Bureau every week. I'm sorry, Madam President. But now my speaking time goes with it. I think this is poor preparation, and I think something could have been done. I'm sure the Enhedslisten will vote in favour if we find a department. And what I was gonna say when I said that ugly word was kind of like a couple of college people can't be that expensive. I was thinking that if it had now been a bunch of workmen from Silkeborg who were going to build something, it would have been expensive. But find the solution and get that pat on the shoulder in Randers, so we'll get over this. Worse still, this whole project is poorly prepared, something we are not talking about because there is no law, but that it has been decided administratively. It's the scandal with the Department of Occupational Injuries. There are then people in this country who get an even longer processing period because they have to experiment with the Labour Damage Board, which is already heavily burdened, who already do not have the people they need, who already have a miserable computer system, etc. etc. It is people who are under pressure and become sick from waiting in uncertainty to get their answers. Now you want to experiment by dividing that government into three parts and moving them around in three corners of our homeland... poor preparation, obscene treatment of people, just because you want to show that you can move a workplace. Take the third example, which we are now discussing three times, last very carefully during the Kingdom Community debate that we had the other day, namely the relocation of the Spatial Data Board. It has to be moved to Aarhus, no Aalborg, sorry. There the Greenlanders have been promised to make sea maps. It takes three years to finish them. Why on earth can't you do that, right? No, you should say stiff-necked: they must be moved now. Then 12 out of 14 employees quit because they don't want to move to Aalborg. That's fair enough, but you can't find the people who have to make those charts. Doesn't it matter? No, it's not. We all know here, I hope, what happens if you sail in waters with ice and very cold water. It doesn't take more than 10 minutes, so you're not alive anymore. A Danish family died in one of these areas two years ago because the charts were not in order, or it was one of the areas where the charts were not made and updated. It's completely poor preparation for your great great project. The words you sell it with are beautiful and fine, but the content is not made and processed is not made properly. I think relocation can make sense when it gives more value, but it can't make sense when local former mayors just need to have a pat on their shoulders.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602102600	There is just one brief comment. I would first like to ask you to keep a proper note and say that you cannot charm yourself out of it either, as Mr. Christian Juhl tried. I agree with the President. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602102614	Thank you. In fact, there was very little of Enhedslisten's speech about DIIS, but in what was actually about DIIS, one was led to the idea that Enhedslisten really wants a better Denmark in balance, because then it is all about being willing to relocate state jobs including research institutions. We had the debate at first reading and I also discussed it with the Socialist rapporteur and there the Enhedslisten's rapporteur also heard the numerous examples in other European countries where this is possible. Therefore, my question to Enhedslisten's rapporteur is very, very specific: Does Enhedslisten really want a Denmark that is in better balance, and is Enhedslisten also ready to take the decisions that may seem like a dynamo in terms of creating that effect?
ParlaMint-DK_20160602102710	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602102712	Thank you. This isn't about that. If Michael Aastrup Jensen had listened to Mr. Henning Hyllesteds gradually numerous lectures and presentations about a country in balance, he wanted to know where Enhedslisten stands. This is all about poor preparation. Try to read the answers from the Minister again. That is a profoundly revealing answer. I will not repeat what Mr. Mogens Jensen said. That was quite clear, and there are even more arguments in the answers we have received from the Ministry that this is poorly prepared and that it could be dealt with, for example, by DIIS. There were two places. That's a brilliant idea. Why on earth would Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, right? He doesn't even take a position on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602102801	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602102804	Well, the answer is, we do. If now Enhedslisten's rapporteur had read the bill, the Enhedslisten's rapporteur would see that what we think is that the concrete unit should be put in Aarhus, but that a branch can be set up in Copenhagen so that you will still be able to hold the major physical conferences etc. in Copenhagen. So that's exactly the solution that Mr. Christian Juhl himself advocated the bill. Then I do not understand why Enhedslisten apparently does not want a Denmark in better balance and therefore votes against.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602102838	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602102840	Now it seems to be a dispute over the emperor's beard. It is Michael Aastrup Jensen who is in the government-supporting party, and thus I think that the duty of initiative is purely moral. Get to work, get to call some people together, and find a solution so the government doesn't end up in this situation. There's a series of outstretched hands for you now. Come on, let's go. It's your own lack of preparation that has created this less clever situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602102907	Sir. Mogens Jensen, a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602102911	Now I do not know whether the Enhedslisten's rapporteur has examined that, because I have been looking into these cities, as Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen mentions, and is not capitals, also has research institutions. And that's right, I've checked that it has these cities. But it is also the case that the national foreign policy research and dissemination institution in all the countries, as Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen mentions, is located in the metropolitan area. Does the rapporteur not think that this might be very sensible, at least if it is the case that 98 per cent. of their users living in the area concerned?
ParlaMint-DK_20160602102948	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602102949	I was getting really nervous that a new proposal for Nykøbing Mors was coming up, but fortunately there wasn't. Of course it is. After all, there is a reason why we have a capital which is slightly larger than other cities. There's no need to change that. We can make the other cities grow, but why do we have to put our feet on the capital? Well, we can be happy that sir... Michael Aastrup Jensen has not been elected in Copenhagen, because then we should almost have it all moved to Copenhagen. This is not a serious way of making politics. I think we should move things to where it brings the greatest added value to the population, and that means that if moving it to Esbjerg or Haderslev or somewhere else can give a really good value, let us do so. But let us not do so because there are local concerns.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602103034	Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl. As I think most people have been told, flower decorations should not be put up in the seats, no matter what purpose they may have. So please remove them. Then the Secretary of State would like to comment on the matter or make a speech. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602103106	I will start by confessing that I am neither resident nor established in Aarhus. I don't plan to settle or set up in Aarhus either. On the other hand, I have had a very good visit to Aarhus on 9 May, where following Peter Taksøe-Jensen's analysis of Danish foreign and security policy, we had a longer conference and a round table with the researchers involved in foreign and security policy in Aarhus, a meeting and a conference that fully confirmed that in Aarhus there is an academic environment that will accommodate and house a research institution such as DIIS. That is exactly what has been the reason for the government's proposal, namely that we want the spread of state jobs and that we move out those things that may be relevant in relation to other entities that allow us to create some synergy. That would be possible if the government were to gain a majority in favour of the proposal that lies here. We could do that if DIIS were moved to Aarhus. I'm gonna have to do the same thing as sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen regrets that the many nice words that have been said about the relocation of state jobs lead to no action being taken on the left side of the Parliamentary Assembly. Both the Social Democracy and the Enhedslisten have many nice words about the relocation of state jobs, but when it comes to some of the things that are going to be difficult, namely to implement it, there is no action. I think that's too bad. Then it is also the case that the so-called proposals that have been made to make departments appear to reveal a lack of knowledge of the law on DIIS. DIIS already has the opportunity to set up departments in Aarhus or Odense or in Esbjerg or in Aalborg, even in Silkeborg, if it should be, and if DIIS wishes to do so. That would then require a completely different legislative proposal from what is on the table here if you were to do so. If DIIS has a wish to move out, it is possible for DIIS' board to choose to do so. I would very much like to enter into a dialogue with DIIS on whether there is part of the work they are doing today that will be possible in collaboration with colleagues and the research institution in Aarhus. But to start saying that we can then just make an agreement on this is evidence of a lack of knowledge of the legislation that is now in place. It is precisely as was also mentioned at first reading that a large number of other European cities, despite being not capitals, are home to internationally recognised research institutions. It concerns Brugge, Munich, Milan, Bern, Bonn and Glasgow. It is even the case that Aarhus' friendship town in Norway, Bergen, is home to one of the major Norwegian research institutions in this area. So there are numerous examples of this being possible. It can also be done in Denmark. It may also be possible to move out a state research institution so that it is outside the capital. It takes just one thing: that you have the political will to leave nice words to political action. I can see that that will is not there, not even in the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602103431	Thank you to the Secretary of State. There are a few brief comments, first from Mr. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602103436	What I called the emperor's beard before is about if there should be a department in Copenhagen and a department in Aarhus, or vice versa. If the government absolutely wants to, I think the government should push this proposal back to committee and let us negotiate it and discuss it. I haven't been invited to a single meeting about this. We've just been over this. It's the only place we've been asked about it. Well, then do it. Find out and find a way. Bring a little allowance, and we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602103509	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602103510	In other words, when we say from the outset, at first reading, that we do not want to support the proposal and reject it completely, it is surely not entirely surprising that negotiations are not being called for. We have discussed this issue with the parties that have shown openness. Of course, we have also discussed this with the parties that have indicated that they would like to be involved. There we have come to the clear conclusion that, at the end of the day, it is a question of whether all the nice words about the relocation of state jobs and the spread of knowledge and research institutions will be followed up by action or whether you will just leave it at words. Here we have to note that there is evidently no confidence that in the country's second largest city we can have a research institution such as DIIS. I do not agree with that at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602103558	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602103559	All we want is this not just fine words and poor government preparation. I mentioned two other examples of poor preparation in this matter and I do not understand why the government does not recognise that the government is lying as it has made. If anyone has fine words without having a bottom line, it's the government. It is the government that has not prepared properly. It is the government that does not see that there are major problems. The Minister himself has given the answers in the written answers we have received on these matters. I can't believe you have to listen to this. If it brings added value, it's fine. You're lying as you've made your bed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602103637	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602103638	It seems a little sandboxy to say that we are lying as we have made, and that we ourselves can be, and things like that. Now try to relate to what is at the heart of the matter. The point is that Aarhus University and Aarhus City have an internationally recognised research environment in this area. They attract world names on the foreign policy research scene, but Enhedslisten does not believe it is possible to move an institution from Copenhagen to Aarhus, despite the fact that Aarhus is home to very large conferences with internationally recognised researchers. I simply do not understand that. We have presented the most elaborate proposal for the relocation of state jobs that any government has presented in all the 18 years I have been a member of the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602103723	Then it's mr. Mogens Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602103724	After all, the minister refers to the fact that the left side of the Parliamentary Chamber will not be involved in relocations. But we have been involved in all relocations except a few, where it has not been linked to what we have set up as criteria, namely that it must be objective and professionally sensible and that it must be economically sensible. We did not agree to the government's proposal to move eight jobs from the State workshops to Elsinore, which would have cost 100 to 120 million. kr. We also think that this was ill-prepared and a bad proposal, just as we think that it is a bad proposal and ill-prepared when the government comes up here with a proposal, for which there is no majority in favour either on the right side of the House. So I can agree with Mr. Christian Juhl in the poor preparation. But what I think the Minister for Foreign Affairs needs to answer is the question I put to him. Michael Aastrup Jensen: If there is no majority in favour of this economic and factually and professionally bad decision to relocate DIIS, what does the Minister for Foreign Affairs have to do with other jobs in the area of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? Because the Left has promised to deliver. And we hear nothing about it today from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602103833	Minister of Foreign Affairs, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602103835	You'd almost think that mr. Mogens Jensen was practicing an edition of Christiansborgrevyen. 'Cause when sir... Mogens Jensen says that we agree with everything, apart from what we do not agree with, it is not a statement. It is not a statement to say that you will support relocations, except where you do not support relocations. The fact is that the Social Democracy has chosen side by side and said that Aarhus cannot stand to have a research institution of international class. You can have that attitude, but then I just disagree. After all, it is not the case that we are saying that a certain number of jobs must be moved to a certain number of cities. We have looked at which jobs it is relevant to move out. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has also relocated the Danida Fellowship Center. It is now in Holbæk, so it is not the case that we have not relocated jobs. We've been looking at what was relevant to move. It was DIIS, and I still think it is, and I'm sorry the Socialists can't see that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602103928	Sir. Mogens Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602103929	After all, I heard the Minister mention the same number of cities which are not capital cities and which also have research institutions. Of course, you have a lot of places, and you also have a very good research environment in Aarhus. But it is now the case that in all the countries mentioned by the Foreign Minister, the national foreign policy research institution is in the capital, and there are a great many reasons and good arguments for this, as we have already heard here today. But again, it is the Foreign Minister who has not properly prepared this. Why, then, has the Secretary of State not contacted the board of the DIIS and tried to find a solution with those who, after all, have the power to decide on this? After all, there has been no initiative on the part of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and when we vote in a moment, it is on the basis that it is the government that is responsible for the failure of a section of DIIS to come to Aarhus.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602104022	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602104023	There was a transition when the Social Democrats thought that Denmark should be a pioneering country and take the lead. Now I understand that the idea is to be a backward country, that is, if no one has done it before, then you cannot do it: if it is a good idea, but others have not done it, then we will not do it. If it's a good idea to move DIIS to Aarhus, but others haven't moved it yet, then that's enough argument for not doing it. See, that's a bad argument. It exhibits the hollowness. Whenever they want, DIIS has the opportunity to set up departments around the country. What the government has wanted is to transfer the head office, the home, to Aarhus, because it would create a new dynamic in the research environment and a differentiation of where we have state jobs and state research environments. The government has the will. Unfortunately, I note that the Socialists do not.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602104114	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602104117	It will be a little sandbox on the part of the Minister, I have to admit. For why can the Minister not recognise that we all actually want to upgrade foreign policy research in Aarhus? We may just think it is a little hollow when, at the same time, we have cut down on universities and cut down on research. Why don't we bet on this area and say: We also want a really strong department in Aarhus? It is simply too hollow to talk about the fantastic thing about closing the DIIS we know today, and then create it in Aarhus, instead of saying: Let's find the money to create it too. It's just too hollow.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602104200	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602104201	Unlike Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist and the Alternative, I have an ambition to have a responsible economic policy in Denmark and that we have a policy in which we use taxpayers' money rationally. And when we have a state research institution, the question is where the state research institution should lie. It's not making a duplicate in Aarhus. I clearly believe that Aarhus has shown that they have the ability to attract international researchers at the highest level. Among other things: Their Match conferences have attracted world-renowned scientists. They have close contacts around, and I am quite sure that it would have been possible to make an effective link between what DIIS is doing and what Aarhus University is researching if we had allowed them. Unfortunately, there is a majority in the Folketing who will not allow them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602104252	Thank you. The minister. There's one more, yeah. All you have to do is get in there. It's easier then.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602104258	But the reality is that, as a whole, this is what the government has proposed, not an upgrading and strengthening of foreign policy research. It's not. You want to close something we know that works, and then you want to create something in Aarhus. So it's not an upgrade. It's not strengthening research. It is trying to mess around so much with the cards that people do not notice that massive cuts have been made when it comes to the whole area of education and research. Then you can stand and make fun of the economic policies of other parties or not, but that is what you do. You make cuts, you downgrade. And that's what the rest of us are reacting to.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602104343	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602104344	My only comment about the economy was in relation to Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist's suggestion that even more research should be done and even more money spent in this area. The point is that with the budgets we have and with the priorities that have been set, among other things. to give priority to health and safety for growth and jobs in Denmark, then there is a framework for foreign policy research. This framework can easily be used rationally and sensibly with Aarhus University. They have competences and the opportunity to further develop the strong network they have. That is why our proposal was to put DIIS in Aarhus, and I am sorry that it will not be adopted today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602104423	Thank you, Minister. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602104429	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of voting 45 (DF, V and KF), against 62 (S, EL, LA, ALT, RV and SF), [no votes for or against 0]. The bill has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602104512	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602104540	Thank you. After all, this is a legislative proposal which we first dealt with back on 19 November and which we saw the second reading on Tuesday without having a debate. The bill concerns GMO cultivation in Denmark. The Committee on the Environment and Food has hurried slowly, you might say, to deal with the bill. This has allowed for an exciting study trip to Spain, where the consequences for agriculture and the environment of growing GM maize in Spain were examined. Five amendments from the Enhedslisten to the bill intend to ensure that it will not be the Minister for the Environment and Food, who will be given extensive powers in the law to approve future GMO cultivation in Denmark. All parties have now accepted the amendments, and I would like to thank you for your support, and I would like to thank the Ministry for providing technical assistance to the amendments. The amendments ensure that all GMO cases covered by the bill are submitted to the Committee on the Environment and Food before the crops can be approved for cultivation or rejected for cultivation in Denmark. This may be a rather unconventional solution, but I think it is a good, democratic solution which allows for a public debate, a more thorough debate and the involvement of organisations, both those against GMO cultivation and those against GMO cultivation. It is very reasonable that power should not be left to the Minister, because we do not know which genetically modified crops are being developed, whether it is a May type that is toxic to an insect which does not exist in Denmark, or whether it is crops that can tolerate certain pesticides, or plants that can tolerate frost, because a gene from a deep-sea fish has been spliced in. There are many reasons to be concerned about new genetically modified crops. The Enhedslisten had preferred to see the bill changed so that Denmark could be maintained as a GMO-free zone in Europe. This could ensure that there is no GMO contamination of organic production and that part of conventional agriculture that does not want to grow GMOs, as well as the risk of damage to nature and the risk of increased use of pesticides when GMOs are resistant to certain pesticides. However, the Barroso directive from the European Union does not, unfortunately, provide for the possibility for nation states to introduce a general national ban on the cultivation of GMOs, and a temporary ban cannot be permanent in nature. Therefore, the solution is national to ensure that all new GMO applications receive concrete political treatment and not just leave it to the Ministry to deal with cases. According to the answers to the case, 2-4 applications for GMO cultivation are expected in the EU each year. This is something that the committee is certainly able to deal with. It is also clear from the answers that some countries have taken national political decisions to avoid GMO cultivation in their territories. What is in force in France, Greece, Latvia, Lithuania, Hungary and Austria may well suggest that the European Union is in some kind of dissolution. The Enhedslisten would like to work further to ensure that a genuine GMOs ban can also be adopted in Denmark. I think it is thought-provoking that there are a number of conventional farmers in Spain who opt out of GMO maize. Yes, it is because it does not give a higher return and does not give a higher price. Ecologists in Spain have the problem that national ecological rules allow 0 per cent. GMO contamination and therefore maize is excluded for cultivation in a number of areas where GM maize is grown. The genes spread over time. It could be by pollination. This may be because maize seeds are transported and stored and no further studies have been carried out on the effects on flora, fauna and soil fertility in relation to the cultivation of genetically engineered crops. This is completely lacking and, in fact, there is also a lack of approval for continuing to grow GM maize in Spain. We need some active consumers. I find it interesting that Arla will now find more conventional dairy farmers who must feed without genetically modified feed, because it is feared that consumers in Denmark too will demand GMO-free production. I am sure that if consumers knew more about the level of imports of genetically modified soya into cattle, pigs, chickens and chickens, there would be a reaction that could promote ecology and even more put traditional farming on the defensive. We need active consumers who both demand GMO-free cultivation and stop importing genetically modified feed. The future of Danish agriculture is the transition to organic farming in accordance with nature and not a chemical farm using genetically engineered crops. This development can be achieved more easily once this draft law has been adopted with the amendments.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602105048	Thank you, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go, sir. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602105101	Thank you. Although we say yes to this proposal here and have also supported the Enhedslisten in their amendments, because it is quite reasonable, it is also based, as Enhedslisten's rapporteur said, on the fact that this is about how the nation states can handle a common EU policy in a sensible way. We can do that this way. The conditions are then just that we have to treat each product separately, and we need to have a system set up here in the Danish Parliament for how we handle it. Will there be two to four cases a year, as Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen says we need to set up a system. We have been discussing for years how we can make coexistence rules, how we can have organic fields, conventional agriculture, and, if so, how we should have GMO cultivation, so that the three forms of cultivation can be together if they can at all. In the Social Democratic Party, there is a big difference between growing GMOs in Denmark, whether it is a starch potato that just needs to be used for industrial purposes, and whether it is GMO products that are intended for animal feeding. As you know, we eat the animals afterwards, so all the different risks that are here must be fully identified, and it must be clear how they are to start growing. If you are going to infect an ecological field, what are the insurance conditions and a large number of other issues? That is why I have proposed that we in the Food Committee should have a consultation on this, so that we have some principles. That's why it's really nice that we've got this taken back to the nation state so we can handle it, but we need a set of rules when the first applications come, that is when farmers come and say that they want to grow it in Denmark, then we need to fix it, in relation to whether we want to, and if so, how we do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602105300	Thank you. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602105310	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. In favour 109 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 1 (LA) (by mistake). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602105358	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Here you go, sir. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602105420	I just need to brief our recommendation. The alternative is that the proposal implements regulatory simplifications on chicken farming and implements existing directives in a simple way. It is positive that both injunctions and bans can be notified in animal welfare cases in the future, and we also believe that it is appropriate to increase the level of fines and to strengthen the possibility of withdrawing the right to keep animals. We are more sceptical when it comes to increased penalties, because we generally believe that prison sentences only rarely have the desired effect in terms of fewer offences, but in view of the positive parts of the proposal and in view of the fact that prison sentences are rarely used in this area, the alternative to the overall proposal is to vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602105507	Thank you to the rapporteur. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602105514	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. In favour, 110 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) [to the contrary, 0 abstained]. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602105544	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602105602	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 99 (S, DF, V, EL, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 8 (LA) [no votes for or against 0]. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602105639	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602105708	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 110 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF, and KF) [against 0 abstentions 0] voted in favour and against. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602105734	We have a Deputy Minister of Culture. Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602105804	This is one of those legislative proposals which may have caused some to smile a little, because it is a small matter, but it is a piece of cultural history to which a united Parliament today votes in favour. I guess we all do. In short, it is almost 1,000 years of Danish cultural history that we all support. One of the royally privileged inns dates back to 1198, namely Bromølle Kro. That's years. And there have been so many strange things about this whole case. During the previous parliamentary term, our resolution was voted down, and in connection with this we found that Post Denmark was allowed to use the closed royal crown, even though Post Denmark is owned by the Swedish state for half of it. We also found out the bakers had to use the closed royal crown. In connection with this bill, I looked into the matter, and it turned out that the reasons why the bakers may use the closed royal crown go as far back as 1529. When the Turks were standing in front of the gates of Wien, some bakers discovered that the Turks were digging their way under the wall. The bakers sounded the alarm, Vienna was saved and thus Europe as well. And so the emperor and the king allowed them to use the closed crown of kings, and it has spread throughout Europe. So when the bakers today are allowed to use the closed royal crown, it is a 500-year-old tradition. That is why it is a culturally historic decision that today we allow the royally privileged inns to use the closed royal crown to some extent. After all, we have had to consider the royal house, and of course the royal house is also willing to help us in this regard. In addition, Denmark-Society has also been involved in a bit. After all, Denmark-Society distributes tabs, and they are allowed to use the closed royal crown. They have even been able to prove that until their records a number of years ago were burned. But we were then written into the notes that Denmark-Society and other associations that can prove some form of belonging to the royal family are allowed to use the closed royal crown. Of course, there has been a little resistance from heraldians and others. It has been referred to the criminal code in section 132 that it is illegal that it is a state characteristic, which of course it is. Therefore there has been the balance of taking account of cultural history on the one hand and taking account of the state of Denmark, the royal house on the other. And we have found that balance with this bill. Unfortunately, the Minister for Culture is not in the Chamber today. I would have liked to thank him for having this bill sent to the House for consideration so that we can say yes to it today. I would also like to thank both the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives for voting for and, ultimately, the rest of the Danish Parliament, which has considered and supported this excellent bill, so that our royally privileged inns can now be allowed to use the closed royal crown to a certain extent. It's a good day. It's a nice day. The sun shined yesterday, said the Prime Minister. It does the same on this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602110159	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Holger K. Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602110205	It was a flamboyant speech we heard here from the Danish People's Party, but the truth is that the balance is as such. After all, it is the Danish People's Party that has had to give in here, because the royal house has not been so much for this. They haven't been so much for this. That is why we have to say that in this case the Danish People's Party has chosen the inn rather than the king.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602110237	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602110239	I think it is wonderful that it is the Socialist People's Party that is now regretting, on behalf of the Royal House, that the Danish People's Party has reached this compromise. But I am willing to admit that this has been a compromise. We've had to find the balance between the consideration of the royal house, the state signature, and the consideration of cultural history. We have found it, and I stand for it, but it is gratifying that socialists now also support the royal house.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602110310	Here you go, sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602110312	No, but it's a total misunderstanding, I can only say, and I am quite happy about that and I would also like to congratulate you on the fact that in this case the Danish People's Party chooses the inn rather than the king. Well, we'd like to congratulate you on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602110329	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602110331	In the Danish People's Party there is room for kings, royal house and inns. We are a spacious party, as you know.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602110341	Thank you. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602110345	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. In favour, 110 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) [to the contrary, 0 abstained]. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602110422	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602110435	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. In favour of 31 (DF and LA), against 76 (S, V, EL, ALT, RV, SF and KF), [no votes for or against 0]. The bill has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602110514	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602110526	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. In favour, 109 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) [to the contrary, 0 abstained]. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602110617	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602110633	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. In favour of 99 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 9 (EL), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602110706	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendments has ended and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602110721	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1-3 by the Minister for Health and the Elderly, as adopted. They are adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602110735	The debate is now about the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the bill? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602110741	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. 79 (S, V, EL, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 30 (DF and LA), [no votes for or against 0]. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602110810	The debate is primarily about the proposed amendment. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendment is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602110821	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1 by the Minister of Taxation as adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602110837	The negotiations then concern the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the bill? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602110843	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 55 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 37 (S, RV and SF), abstentions 16 (EL and ALT). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602110921	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602110936	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 87 (S, DF, V, ALT, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstentions 22 (EL, LA and RV). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602111014	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602111025	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 110 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602111057	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602111109	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 92 (S, DF, V, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 17 (EL and LA), [no votes for or against 0]. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602111142	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602111150	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. Has everyone voted? The vote is over. In favour of 65 votes (S, DF, EL and SF), against 44 votes (V, LA, ALT, RV and KF), [no votes for or against 0]. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602111240	The debate is primarily about the proposed amendment. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendment is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602111255	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1 by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing, as adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602111307	Then the debate is about the legislative proposal as a whole. Here you go, Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602111326	Thank you. After all, the thanks were going around the room yesterday, so people may not be able to cope anymore, but I would nevertheless like to take this opportunity to thank all the rapporteurs for the process that has taken place in connection with this proposal for the abolition of the green card system. For everyone, some have been more enthusiastic than others have contributed to the fact that it has been given a form that we in the Enhedslisten are very pleased with, because it means that the use of a scheme which we have always opposed has been stopped by a scheme which means that foreigners are being lured here under false hopes. Because they are highly skilled workers, they are lured here under false hopes of getting a job corresponding to their qualifications. However, as they do not have a job on hand, they simply have to run into the long queue already in many industries, in all sectors, with the result that a very large proportion of those who have entered the greencard scheme have not got a job in relation to their qualifications. Many of them are instead in work in unskilled industries, or they are unemployed. We think this is a bad arrangement and we are basically in favour of the principle actually contained in the Aliens Act that if you as a foreigner come to this country and want to work, you have to have a job on hand. You have to have a contract of employment which shows that you are working here on normal pay and working conditions. So we are satisfied that the scheme is being stopped now. There are other arrangements that can be used. If there is a situation in a given sector where there is a shortage of labour which cannot be provided in this country, it must not be impossible to obtain it, and there are also arrangements in the law on foreigners that make it possible. That is one side of the coin. But what has been important to the Enhedslisten is that we stop the scheme in a proper way, so that we do not break any promises, runs from a contract that we have actually entered into with the greencard holders who have already been granted a residence permit in this country, and the resulting effects in relation to the possibility of being with their family, the possibility of seeking an extension, the possibility of also applying for permanent residence in Denmark if necessary. There we have to acknowledge that we ourselves were not awake enough from the start, and this is where I should like to thank the critics and, above all, the rapporteur on the Left, Mr. Marcus Knuth, who pointed out that there were some things in this bill that hadn't been worked through. We then started working on this and it resulted in an amendment from the Enhedslisten, which has been adopted. Thank you very much to all the parties that supported it, knowing that some of those parties are very dissatisfied with the fact that there is now a majority in favour of stopping the green card system. So it's just to express that satisfaction. And I am well aware that the proposers of the Danish People's Party may not be quite enthusiastic about the final form, but one can then say, if it is any consolation, that the process then makes the majority of their proposals, in principle, very good, a little bigger. Finally, I would like to express my thanks to the green card holders who have followed the matter very closely and who have regularly provided us with information on what the consequences of the law would be in relation to the fundamental breach of promise that we would be moving into if we did not get it in place with this amendment. So thank you to all those who have contributed to this solution, knowing that some will vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602111729	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602111739	You have to say something positive once in a while, so I would also like to start by saying thank you for the fact that, after all, the majority took their minds off and removed the worst things for those affected by this bill. Thank you. Having said that, this proposal illustrates everything that is wrong with Danish immigration policy. Here we are talking about on the one hand creating restrictions for people who contribute to Danish society, while on the other hand we cannot get through creating an asylum policy that is tight enough and ensuring that fewer of those who do not contribute come. So this proposal is simply the symbol of everything that is wrong with Danish immigration policy. We will ensure that more people come in to be supported by the Danish taxpayers, while at the same time ensuring that fewer of those who finance the Danes who are on transfer income come in. It is simply foolishness put in order. It is an expression of the fact that I must be careful not to get too excited about a strange form of pettyness, which is that it is unpleasant that there are people coming and looking for jobs, paying taxes, helping to finance our society. Because you want to speak up, that there are some who are unemployed and cannot get a job, even if that is not true, you have to come after the hard-working foreigners who are in this country. I think that is a pity, and that is why the Liberal Alliance will, of course, vote against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602111941	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602111948	Thank you. In the alternative, we think it is quite wrong to abolish this greencard system. We're talking about foreigners who want to go to the country and work. We need qualified workers in Denmark, and in this way we are shutting down foreigners, whom we are very pleased about. That is why I can, to a large extent, endorse the previous rapporteur's speech. It is to put things completely on the head that a majority in the Folketing is voting for an arrangement that means that we cannot accept the foreigners who want to go to Denmark and work. I am sure that all rapporteurs have received very, very many e-mails and letters from greencard holders who are lamenting the abolition of this scheme. I am, of course, pleased that some transitional arrangements have been corrected, but I think it is a pity and shame, and I think it is quite wrong that there is a majority in the Folketing for this bill. So the alternative will vote against and we think it is quite the wrong way to go not to say yes to foreigners who come and want to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602112101	Thank you. Is that a brief comment, sir? Dan Jørgensen?
ParlaMint-DK_20160602112104	Thank you. It is important to bear in mind that it will still be possible for highly qualified workers from third countries to come to Denmark. There are a large number of arrangements that make it possible, so it is not the case that we are abolishing that option. But what happens when we abolish the green card system is that we avoid examples, as we have seen, of highly trained workers taking unskilled jobs, pushing wages there and taking jobs from others. I would like to ask Mrs Josephine Fock: does Mrs Josephine Fock think that it is okay, for example, that she should be able to do so? an engineer from Bangladesh comes into the greencard scheme and works as an unskilled bid in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160602112142	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602112144	What I think is really a pity is that we are closing the door to the possibility that a well-educated engineer coming from Bangladesh will take a job in Denmark. Some of them end up not getting the job in question or losing a job while they're here and going out to take another job. To that I would say: that is how the labour market works.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602112207	Sir. Dan Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602112208	It is important to emphasise that there is still the possibility that an engineer from Bangladesh or India can come to Denmark via other schemes. What is just the problem here is that the system is being abused. This shows the example of an engineer who comes to Denmark to take a job as a messenger or other unskilled work, who may give a high salary compared to the salary he could get in his home country, but which, by its very nature, never was the intention of the scheme that he should take. So I have to ask again: does Mrs Josephine Fock think that it is acceptable that today we have a situation where there are people with greencard, highly qualified labour, in Denmark who are contesting unskilled jobs?
ParlaMint-DK_20160602112250	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602112252	I think it is acceptable that we have a greencard system that allows these people to come to Denmark and work. That they then take another job, I think is a pity and, in reality, abuse of their abilities, but they have full right to go out and take another job completely in line with the rest of the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602112311	Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602112315	Thank you. I'm just trying to understand the alternative's approach to this issue of foreign labour imports. Does this mean that the alternative believes that it is a wrong principle that is in the Aliens Act? The principle is, of course, as I explained, that if you as a foreigner want to work in this country, you are required to have a job on hand, you have a contract of employment. The principle is also that the contract of employment must state that work is carried out on normal pay and working conditions. It can then be discussed what it is, but it is thought that it must be something at the level of agreement within the profession in question. The third point is that the social partners must be consulted locally, whether there is now also a shortage of labour. Is that not an excellent principle to have? It doesn't close the door for foreigners to come to the country and work. This does not prevent a single employer from obtaining the necessary skilled labour. It is just such a fundamental principle that I think exists in all countries' legislation on foreigners. Does Mrs. Josephine Fock think it's a wrong principle to have?
ParlaMint-DK_20160602112424	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602112426	I just do not think that principle should prevent us from having the green card system as well. That's what divides us, isn't it? So we want to preserve the greencard system as an opportunity for qualified workers to come to Denmark and take a job.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602112439	Sir. Finn Sørensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602112445	Thank you. I wasn't very good at reading the President's thoughts. There is a crucial difference between the green card scheme and all sorts of other schemes, that is to say the principle of the Aliens Act, but also the amount scheme and this scheme, according to which people can enter and get a job on the so-called positive list, i.e. a job in an area where they agree that there is a shortage of labour. That is the fundamental difference. When Mrs Josephine Fock turns to a stop to the green card system, I cannot read it in any other way than that it is because Mrs Josephine Fock basically disagrees with the principle of the law on foreigners, and the alternative's position is therefore that there should be no restrictions on labour coming to this country, whether we need it or not. That is the conclusion, isn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160602112536	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602112539	Well, it's sir. Finn Sørensen is free to conclude. What I am saying is that we want to maintain this green card system as well as an option beyond the other rules. We'll hold on to that. We think it is very good that foreign workers can come to Denmark and work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602112555	Thank you. Then it's mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602112600	Thank you, Madam President. As far as the development policy of the alternative is concerned, we have repeatedly insisted that it is a wrong development policy that we have in Denmark. We give the resources the wrong priority. After all, we have chosen to cut the framework in relation to funding, for example, the many asylum seekers and migrants coming to Denmark. But with the defense that Mrs Josephine Fock has for this bill, the alternative really legitimizes that it is quite okay that we in Denmark should attract labour from India and Bangladesh • trained engineers, doctors, IT staff etc., who could have got excellent jobs in the countries they come from. You will then have to drive a taxi in Roskilde or anything else in Denmark. Isn't it a bad resource utilisation compared to the alternative saying that we should look at sustainability throughout the world and not just in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160602112656	Here you go, Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602112658	I don't know if I can make it any clearer. So, we think it is very good that we have a greencard scheme which allows us to receive qualified labour in Denmark; it helps Denmark. So I think it is a relevant discussion to open up whether we are draining the countries in question. But that is not the case here. I think it is important that we as a country do not shut ourselves down, in other words that we can also attract skilled labour.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602112725	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602112728	The answer given by the rapporteur only confirms to me that what is really happening is a form of political selfishness, in other words what we are seeing here from the point of view of the alternative. It's selfish when you say it's more important that well-educated people from less well-trained countries have to go to Denmark for doctors, engineers and others to take on a job for which you don't need a long education. After all, as the rapporteur himself says, we are draining some of these developing countries from the specialist knowledge that these people possess and that they could use to rebuild their own countries and build up their own structures rather than emigrate to a country like Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602112807	Here you go, Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602112810	I think it is important to make it clear that we live in an international world. And I think it is important that those who come up here to work and have a long education that they would like to use in Denmark, for example. For a number of years, go back home. I think we should be completely open to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602112830	Sir. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602112836	Thank you, President. It sounds kind of amazing when the alternative says they just have to come up here and work. I hope that the alternative is aware that the kind of highly qualified labour that Mrs Josephine Fock is talking about is the ones that companies can bring up to the limit. If they have a high degree as a doctor or engineer and they have the qualifications required by the companies, they can be brought up to the limit. On the other hand, those who come up here on the green card scheme typically go as unskilled, which means that they are competitors of the 170,000 that we have to enter the labour market. It is not reasonable for well-qualified labour, if that is what Mrs Josephine Fock is talking about, to come up here to Denmark and take an unskilled job, but that is what is happening. We've met someone who drives a cab. We've met someone who's in the cleaning business. They have a high level of education, but companies do not want them anyway. Then they just came up here, and then they work because they have a greencard. Does Mrs Josephine Fock not think it is wrong that they should be exploited to take these low-paid jobs?
ParlaMint-DK_20160602112943	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602112945	I think we should ask companies, and if you ask companies, they say that it is really, really important that we can attract foreign labour, that this is what we need in Denmark. This is among other things. the green card system, and that is why we support the green card system.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602113003	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602113006	Of course, it is important that companies can attract skilled labour. That's what they do, too. If companies really want them, they are also ready to pay a salary according to their qualifications. But the result is that a lot of people come up here. They're on the greencard scheme, but they have an unskilled job. They're in the cleaning business, they're in the taxi business, and they're all sorts of places where there's jobs for unskilled people. After all, they don't get a job in relation to their qualifications. Is it not better, then, that they stay at home and then support the country from which they come and help build their own country well and thoroughly instead of taking an unskilled job in Denmark? So we have 170,000 or something to do on the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602113043	Here you go, Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602113045	As I said, it is very positive that Denmark is able to attract foreign labour. We think that Denmark needs foreign labour, too, and that is why we think it is a good arrangement that we do not want to abolish.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602113056	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602113106	Thank you for the floor. That will also be the only thing I will be thanking from here, even though the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance began by being gracious. For us in the Radical Left, the Green Card scheme is a very clear signal from Denmark and Danish companies to highly trained foreign workers that in Denmark you have the opportunity to live and work if you invest yourself heavily in it. Without the greencard scheme, Denmark will have even more difficulty attracting foreign talents. After all, we reformed the scheme in 2014. It is even being evaluated and now a majority is abolishing the system before the evaluation is even available. It's basically irresponsible. So you cannot come to Denmark and have access to public services. You have to prove that you can support yourself in the first year. You have to take care of yourself and your family. You have to report your income electronically. You are fully registered in the Danish labour market if you are staying here on a greencard. Generally speaking, you have to work more hours than many others. You have to earn more than many people to stay on a greencard. So it's basically pretty difficult. And if you have gone through the trouble and live up to those criteria, you really want the Danish labour market and the Danish society. Then our society is by no means to blame. On the contrary, tax dollars are placed in the box every month for the benefit of Danish welfare and Danish society. It is not to the detriment of Denmark. With this bill, an amendment was adopted at the eleventh hour. That is what the Liberal Alliance rapporteur thanked for. That was when Enhedslisten got cold feet, otherwise there were a lot of hard-working foreigners who had been kicked out of the country in 2 months. That was the purpose of the bill, namely to throw out foreigners who live and work in Denmark and have been doing so for several years. It is foreigners who have family and life in Denmark. It is foreigners whose children go to school in Denmark. It is foreigners who have invested in property in Denmark. The proposal will therefore throw out foreigners who pay taxes. They in no way commit crime, they live ordinary lives and enrich Danish jobs. After all, it is only in the future that we are going to miss them, to the detriment, we think, of Danish companies and Danish jobs. It was good that at the last minute you managed to discover what you had set in motion and tabled an amendment, but it's a genius sloppy thing you've done. You who yourself advocate consultation deadlines and proper treatment have carried out a legislative process without consultation, without understanding that you were throwing hard-working people and their families out of the country, putting them out of their homes. I think that is beneath all criticism. I really hope that you who pass this bill will take note of that. The majority would rather send jobs out of the country than fill them with skilled foreigners, and that is what we are going to adopt today. We shall, of course, be voting against in the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602113453	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Dan Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602113456	Thank you. Now it was claimed that there has been no consultation, but there are a number of consultation responses, among others. from the LO, which says that they support abolishing this greencard scheme because it has led to a large number of foreigners, highly qualified foreigners coming to Denmark and taking unskilled jobs. Will the rapporteur not respond to what would be said to the LO if we maintained the green card system? How can one defend that highly qualified engineers from Bangladesh or India come to Denmark and take cleaning jobs, bidding jobs, taxi driver jobs, that is jobs that could be filled by others?
ParlaMint-DK_20160602113538	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602113540	I think it sounds like we basically in the Social Democratic and Radical Left look at how job creation takes place and how we fill jobs. There are, of course, a number of requirements in the greencard system that we have a number of requirements for the people who are coming. They must earn a certain amount. They have to work for a very high number of hours in order to keep that greencard. This means that some who, just when they arrive, cannot get a job that exactly corresponds to their qualifications... they may not have learned the language yet... take up until more jobs. I think the rapporteur is aware that there will be functions in Denmark that cannot be filled if we did not have those people for, among others. driving a cab at night and other things sometimes. My answer is, of course, that we must do everything possible to ensure that they get jobs that correspond to their qualifications. However, there are not a certain number of jobs available in Denmark. It's not a chair game about jobs. We create jobs by being able to fill more jobs so that companies have access to the qualified workforce they need right when they need it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602113644	Sir. Dan Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602113646	I'm just gonna get that right. Does the rapporteur think that we are now going to lack taxi drivers in Denmark? The rapporteur said literally: there are a number of jobs that will not be filled if we do not have this scheme. Well, you can't think that we have to pick up highly qualified workers from India and then hope that until they qualify for a highly qualified job in Denmark, they will also drive a taxi, otherwise we don't have enough taxi drivers in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602113713	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602113715	No, it's definitely best if we can fill all jobs with those who have qualifications for it. However, in the Radical Left, we have no problem with people with high qualifications who do not hold back society, taking the jobs that are available when they are available until they can get the job that matches their qualifications, just as we expect from everyone else on the labour market, so that they take a job when it is available, instead of waiting.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602113744	Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602113748	Thank you, and thanks to the rapporteur for the fucking ball, it was partly well deserved. But would the rapporteur just so quietly confirm that it was the Enhedslisten who tabled an amendment which corrected the accident we were about to commit? I recognize that. It was the Enhedslisten, it wasn't the Radical Left. Will the rapporteur also confirm that the rapporteur himself voted in favour of the amendment because it ensures that we do not break any contract or any promises we have made to current greencard holders and their families and their opportunities? I would like the rapporteur to confirm this. Then it is only right that we look at this completely differently, because the rapporteur pays tribute to the liberalist philosophy that the more labour we import, the more jobs there will be. It's probably a little hard to find evidence for it out there in the real world, but I don't think we can come to terms with that here. The result, of course, is that wages are falling, that is all you get out of that strategy. Finally, I would just like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that there are no obstacles to a company that lacks highly qualified labour and can demonstrate it being able to get imported labour to do the job, including from third countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602113917	The fucking ball will probably get under the ordinary margin we can use at a close end in the Folketing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602113925	Thank you. I can certainly confirm that I did so in my rapporteur's speech that the Enhedslisten has tabled an amendment to an awful bill which makes it a little better and saves the people who are here already for the eleventh hour. I confirm that and, of course, we will vote for it the other day. Secondly, I would like to say that Mr. Finn Sørensen's specialty is apparently to interpret the politics of other parties. But I can confirm that I disagree with Mr. Finn Sørensen's interpretation of the Radical Left's policy, which I prefer to interpret myself. We are very much in favour of having proper and regulated conditions in the Danish labour market. This is one of the things we are known for in the world because the social partners can regulate it. So we do not have legislation for everything, among other things. Not for minimum wage, but we have regulated, proper conditions. There must also be, and there are also requirements for people with greencards to meet. We are very pleased about this in the Radical Left, and that is why it does not correspond to the interpretation which Mr. Finn Sørensen just gave.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602114039	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602114049	Thank you. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Socialists, to thank the Socialist People's Party, and also to thank the Enhedslisten for their cooperation and support for this bill, which is about abolishing the greencard scheme and, as a matter of fact, also thank you for the support for the previous bill, which is about raising the threshold. From the point of view of the Danish People's Party, it is quite reasonable to tighten the rules for foreign labour, and this is something that we have worked on for a number of years, so it is gratifying that it now seems to be adopted here in the Danish Parliament. I think it is important to stress that this is the view of the Danish People's Party that, under certain conditions, foreign labour may come to Denmark, but of course only if we need foreign labour. If not even that premise is in place, it is weary to start bringing foreigners to Denmark to work if we basically do not need the labour that they can provide. That is why we have to shut down the system and we look forward to the green card system being abolished per year. June 10th this year.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602114149	Then there is a brief comment. Sir. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602114155	The citizens who come up with these business schemes, the greencard scheme, provide a net profit. They therefore pay more in tax and tax terms than they receive in the form of public consumption and transfers etc. So they make Denmark richer. What is the sense in cutting off these people from coming to Denmark and thus helping to solve some of the challenges that we have both in relation to our public economy, but also in relation to creating economic growth, which is the prerequisite for the welfare that the Danish People's Party is so often willing to share generously?
ParlaMint-DK_20160602114240	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602114242	I do not agree that the people who have touched on the greencard scheme contribute financially to Danish society. I do not agree with that. It is true that they do not have access to cash benefits, for example, if they do not have a job, but they do have free access to the rest of the welfare society in Denmark, and their family also has. There is, of course, the possibility of taking the family on the green card scheme. They find it easier to get the family on the greencard scheme than so many other foreigners have when they apply for family reunification to Denmark, and they also use the Danish welfare society. Then there is also the saying that when people come here who are ready to take unskilled jobs, it can also help that there are some who are on public support in Denmark. It can be Danes, but it can also be some of the immigrants and their descendants who have been here for many years • who are kept out of the labour market. The people we then pay for the public support of, so in the end we do not believe that this is a system that contributes positively to the economy of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602114332	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602114336	I would say that if that is the reason why this decision has been taken, it is extremely worrying. First of all, it cannot be discussed whether these people contribute positively. Well, we know they do. Studies have been carried out on this. These people contribute positively; they are a profit business for the Danish Treasury. Secondly, it is quite wrong to claim that these people are taking jobs from some people. That's not how an economy works. It should, of course, be based on the premise that there are a certain number of jobs in an economy that these people then come and take in front of some others. That's not how an economy works. If that were the case, that would have meant that the reforms we have made, for example, would have been the result. The early retirement scheme should only lead to an increase in unemployment, but that does not happen. On the contrary, we see a sharp increase in employment for those groups which no longer have access to the early retirement scheme. So if that is the basis on which one has made the decision, then it is a wrong basis, and then one helps to harm Danish prosperity and thus Danish well-being with the decision that one is now making.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602114436	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602114438	It is clearly in Danish interest to abolish the greencard system. I would recommend that you take the facts that I can hear from Danish Industry and Danish Employers' Association with a grain of salt, because it is always the case that if you ask Dansk Industri and Dansk Arbejdsforening, they will say: The more that comes, the better. They can of course use this to increase the supply of work, and it is fair enough that some people have the intention that they will increase the supply of work in Denmark by increasing immigration. It is a political attitude that you can have, but we do not have it in the Danish People's Party. It is also clear that there are some companies that have an interest in the fact that there are a lot of people to choose from when they have to go out and pick some employees. But there we only have some other considerations to take as politicians here in the Folketing, and that is the concern not only for companies, but also for the country as a whole, for society as a whole. From that point of view, it is clearly in Danish interest and the interest of Danish employees that the greencard system should be abolished, and it is time that we did so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602114526	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no one else who wanted to speak, and the debate is closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602114550	That is why we are now voting on the final adoption of the draft law. The vote is over. In favour of 63 (S, DF, EL and SF), against 45 (V, LA, ALT, RV, KF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602114631	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602114638	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 108 votes (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602114716	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602114739	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. In favour, 67 (S, DF, LA, SF and KF) voted against 42 (V, EL, ALT and RV), [no votes for or against 0]. The draft parliamentary resolution has been adopted and will now be sent to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602114819	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602114837	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. In favour of 25 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 84 votes (S, DF, V, LA and KF), [for or against 0]. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602114916	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602114927	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. In favour 22 (DF), against 86 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), [no votes for or against 0]. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602115000	The debate is primarily about the proposed amendment. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendment is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602115011	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 by a minority (LA). The vote is closed. In favour 7 (LA), against 79 (S, V, EL, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 22 (DF). The amendment has been rejected. The negotiations then concern the proposal as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602115045	Does anyone wish to comment on the proposal? Mr. Martin Henriksen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602115056	Thank you. As I have said, the proposal is about giving police and homeguards the opportunity to reject asylum seekers at the border on the grounds that they come from a safe country, namely Germany. Now it is not the case that we in the Danish People's Party care too much about the conventions, but it is actually clear from the UN Convention on Refugees that people should not be rejected and sent back to a country where they risk torture and political persecution etc., and after all they do not do that in Germany unless you may be a comedian and have made fun of Erdogan, because then it may well be, but otherwise there is no risk of that kind of thing in Germany, and that is why we think that, within the framework of the international rules of gambling, there is a good chance of rejecting people at the Danish-German border, and we really do think that there are very good arguments for that. After all, we have noted that the ruling party of the Left would very much like to tighten up the policy on foreigners. We have also adopted a lot of tightenings, and we are happy about that in the Danish People's Party, and that is good. But that has not solved the whole problem, because major challenges are still missing, and we still think that the influx to Denmark is too intense, even if it has fallen. So it is surprising that there are some political statements from the Left and from other parties which are moving towards tightening up, but that one cannot support a proposal which, after all, will mean that the number of asylum seekers entering Denmark will fall dramatically. We have also noted that the Socialist Group in the European Parliament wants to limit this and that it would like to set a ceiling on the number coming to Denmark. But if you want it, you must also have some tools that you can use to set the ceiling and limit the flow, and it is clear that you have to have some people at the border who have the competence to reject people. We want it to be as close as possible to 0 as possible, but if you say that you set the limit at, for example, 1,000 or 500, which can come and apply for asylum in Denmark a year, and then you reach that limit, yes, then the authorities must have some tools that make them actually able to deal with the rules adopted by the Folketing and thus reject people at the border. We are sorry that, as things stand now, no party can support our resolution to reject asylum seekers at the border. I understand that the Conservatives may support the motion for a resolution, and I would like to sign for that. But it is hard to understand that others do not want to support it. But we hope that at a later stage we will succeed in convincing the other parties so that we can tighten up Danish asylum policy further. We really need that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602115318	There are a few brief comments. It's sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, Liberal Alliance, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602115331	I am actually taking the floor because I had such a nice exchange of words with the rapporteur's party chairman, Mr President. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, in the closing debate yesterday, there was a little about this subject. It seems to me that the Danish People's Party and the Liberal Alliance may be closer to each other than one might think, and that is why I was wondering if we could make an alliance where we are trying to press the Left Government to have some negotiations on this area. One is to table a motion for a resolution which will never get through in the Folketing; another is if we could work together to do the two things we agreed on, namely a temporary stop to spontaneous asylum seekers and more massive financial assistance to the neighbourhoods, and then I actually understood Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, that the Danish People's Party was not entirely opposed to discussing our third element, which is about taking a little more UN quota refugees. I know that was not a yes, but you did not deny that you could also take it with you if you solved the first two things. It could actually be constructive if we now took each other's hands and tried to get the Left Government to take these problems a little more seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602115441	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602115444	Now I don't know how many hands sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll has. 'Cause I think he took the PM's hand yesterday too, so I don't know if there's room for me, too. But if it is that the Liberal Alliance wants to tighten up further, then we would very much like to press the government on this issue. I understand that what the Liberal Alliance wants is that we should have a temporary stop for two years and spend some more money in the neighbourhood, and then in Denmark we should take 4 000 refugees from refugee camps in the neighbourhood. And there is no reason to hide the fact that this is probably the last part that we in the Danish People's Party have a little difficulty with. But we have also said that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl also yesterday said that if it is that you get the influx stopped and you get it under control and, as it were, you get it as close to zero as possible, then it is clear that at some point you can discuss a new system, that is, that where you are currently taking 500 UN quota refugees, you can discuss whether the number should be a my higher.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602115541	Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602115546	I would just like to acknowledge the very accommodating answer that the rapporteur has given, and I would like to add that there is always room for a little to the left hand.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602115556	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602115558	I do not think I have any comments on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602115607	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no one else who wanted to speak and then we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602115614	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. In favour of 26 (DF and KF), against 82 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV and SF, abstentions 1 (LA) (by mistake). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602115710	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602115722	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. In favour 22 (DF), against 86 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), [no votes for or against 0]. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602115801	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602115817	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. In favour 22 (DF), against 82 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 4 (LA) (by mistake). The motion for a resolution has been rejected. Then I shall postpone the sitting until 8:00. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602125958	The meeting is reopened. No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602130032	The final vote will be taken and the vote can now be taken. If otherwise there are no technical problems in the groups, we shall conclude the vote now. In favour of 24 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 83 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has therefore been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602130114	The debate is about the amendments that have been tabled for the first time. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. Then we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602130150	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1 and 2 of a minority (EL, ALT, SF and RV) as adopted. The amendments have been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602130208	The debate is now about the proposal as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the proposal? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602130215	The final vote will be taken and the vote can now be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour of 25 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 84 votes (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602130247	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? Since no one wishes to speak, the debate on the amendments has ended and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602130317	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (LA), joined by a minority (KF), and can now be voted on. We shall conclude the vote now. In favour of 12 (LA and KF), against 95 (S, DF, V, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. Amendment No. 2 is rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 1, tabled and joined by the same minority, lapsed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602130413	The debate is now about the proposal as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the proposal as a whole? That is not the case, so we shall proceed to the vote on the proposal itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602130422	The final vote will be taken and the vote can now be taken. The vote is now closed. In favour of 26 (DF and KF), against 82 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602130455	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case, so we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602130520	The final vote will be taken and the vote will be taken shortly. The vote is now closed. In favour of 16 (EL and ALT), against 91 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602130600	There are no amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602130622	The final vote will be taken and the vote can now be taken. The vote shall be closed. in favour of 15 (LA and ALT), against 92 (S, DF, V, EL, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. This means that the draft parliamentary resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602130658	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendments has ended and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602130732	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF). A vote can be taken now. The vote shall be closed. In favour of voting 53 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 55 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. That is to say, Amendment No. 2 is rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 1, tabled by the same minority, lapsed. If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 3 by a majority (DF, V, LA and KF)? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602130824	The debate is now about the proposal as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the proposal as a whole? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602130835	The final vote will be taken and the vote can now be taken. We shall conclude the vote. It looks green. In favour, 109 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The draft parliamentary resolution has been unanimously adopted and will be sent to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602130909	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the negotiations on the amendments have been concluded and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602130951	If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 1 and No 2 by a majority (DF, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF)? They are adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602131006	The negotiations then concern the proposal as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the proposal? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602131015	The final vote will be taken and the vote can now be taken. I shall conclude the vote now. In favour of voting 59 (DF, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 49 (S and V), abstentions 0. The draft parliamentary resolution has been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602131047	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602131111	The final vote will be taken and the vote can now be taken. I shall conclude the vote now. In favour of 32 (EL, LA, ALT, RV and SF), against 75 (S, DF, V and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602131140	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602131208	The final vote will be taken and the vote can now be taken. I shall conclude the vote now. For the vote 22 (DF), against 86 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602131241	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is over and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602131311	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 4 of a minority (EL) and a vote can be taken. I shall conclude the vote now. In favour of 9 (EL), against 94 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 4 (KF). That is why the amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 1-3, 7-9, 15 and 16, tabled by the same minority, lapsed. The vote will now be taken on Amendment No 1, tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) and on behalf of the I shall conclude the vote now. In favour of 9 (EL), against 95 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 4 (KF). Amendment No. 5 has been rejected. If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 6th meeting of the Committee)? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 10 of a minority (DF), joined by a minority (EL and ALT) and can now be voted on. I shall conclude the vote now. In favour 38 (DF, EL, ALT and 1 LA (by mistake)) voted against 69 (S, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. Amendment No. 10 are rejected. The vote will now be taken on Amendment No 1, tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) and on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) and on behalf of the Group of the European People's I shall conclude the vote now. In favour of 38 (DF, EL and ALT), against 70 (S, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. Amendment No. 11 has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 12 and 13, adopted by the Committee, Amendment No. 14, adopted by a majority (the committee with the exception of LA) or on Amendment No. 14, adopted by a majority (the committee with the exception of LA) or amendment No. 14, adopted by a majority (the committee with the exception of LA). 17, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602131621	Does anyone wish to speak? Yeah, and you guys need to be calm. The rapporteurs now have the opportunity to express their views in a round of legislative proposals and amendments. That is why we are going to the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, Mr President. Dan Jørgensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602131751	This somewhat chaotic start to the debate here reflects very well and it certainly is not a reflection on our excellent President's work • the past few days' rather chaotic course. Unfortunately, this is a legislative proposal that has been put forward so late that it has been difficult to get answers to the questions put by my party and other parties. I understand that the judgment, which means that we are dealing with this bill at all, is, of course, relatively new. But I still think it would have been fair to finish the work, so we had at least had a few weeks. Having said that, however, we support urgent treatment of this, because it is important to bring it into line with the European Court of Justice and, of course, it is also important to ensure that the people affected by the new legislation are safe as soon as possible. This debate has also been marked, at least in public, by a number of misunderstandings. And that is why it may be useful to make a few points first. First of all, this law deals with children over the age of 6, where the child and one parent either live in the home country or in another country. And the law isn't about refugees. That means, for example, that: a television feature like what I saw yesterday, where reference was made to this law, while there were pictures from refugee camps, even children behind barbed wire and other things, are not fair. That's not what this law is about. Nor does the bill alter the assessment itself. We are discussing the age limit for the assessment of integration here, and so we are doing so because the European Court of Justice has overruled the way we have organised ourselves with the aforementioned two-year deadline. The integration assessment itself is not new, it was introduced as far back as 2004, and it is also important to emphasise that the inclusion of an integration assessment is not equal to the refusal of family reunification, but that it is based on a discretionary assessment. So what we are discussing today is how we conform to this EU judgment, and the Social Democrats do not agree with the government that we simply have to remove the two-year deadline and then set the age limit to six years, thus introducing an integration assessment for all children over six years of age. We have instead, fortunately together with other parties, put forward proposals to increase the age limit to eight years, so that we have a situation that is in line with what we have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602132038	Thank you, sir. Dan Jørgensen. There are no brief remarks, so we... Yeah, I'm sorry, someone came. And this is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602132043	Well, the new thing about this bill is that children could not be subjected to an integration assessment in the past if they were brought together with their father or mother here in Denmark within the first 2 years after their father or mother had come to Denmark. This means that this proposal will mean that all children over the age of 8 years will have to be subjected to this integration assessment, with the risk of having a refusal, which it means. I would like to ask the rapporteur if he can give us an example of an 8-year-old child, as Mr. Dan Jørgensen and the Social Democrats do not believe that is integral. Because if you cannot give such an example, then it is pointless to expose the child to a so-called integration assessment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602132136	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602132137	I believe that the rapporteur has either misunderstood or made a false statement. Or maybe I've misunderstood something, and then it can be corrected. But I think the rapporteur said that it was within two years of a person coming to Denmark. I don't think that's true, strictly speaking. It is 2 years after a person is entitled to apply for family reunification. It's just to get that thing in place. I do not need to go into theoretical considerations about concrete examples. I can only say that when we think that the assessment of integration is at all beneficial to us, it is of course a question of us also wanting to help motivate us to apply for family reunification as early as possible in a child's life. Of course, if the child is 7 years old and is 8 years old tomorrow, is there a difference between a day's difference and something like that? And I fully understand that there will always be that bordering. But we do not think that it is appropriate, for example, that we should do something about it. Let a child stay, let us say in Somalia, as I think examples were described when the law was first dealt with until the child reaches the age of 14, and on the last possible day it will come to Denmark. So, regardless of whether there are theoretical examples of how it was useful to say no to a child at the age of 8, it may well be that you think it makes sense to have this legislation, because it provides an incentive, because part of the integration assessment is based on the child's age. The questioner looks a little puzzling, but I'm sure I'll get the opportunity to elaborate on it again.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602132312	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602132313	It is okay that the Socialists think it is good if children are brought together when they are as small as possible. But if the child is 8 years old, for example. The Thai mother marries a Danish man, then the child is 8 years old, and then the child must be subjected to a so-called integration assessment. That is why I am not asking a theoretical question. This is extremely relevant and concrete for the people involved. This law doesn't make sense unless you can give an example of an 8-year-old child who you don't think is integral. In other words, when you want to expose children to integration assessments from the age of 8, it has to be because you think there are some children who are not integrable. And then I ask the rapporteur: what are these eight-year-old children who are not integrable and therefore cannot be allowed to accompany the mother or father of Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160602132404	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602132405	I am sure I have been a little knotty, because the rapporteur keeps sticking to the same angle, which is why we are doing this in order to have the opportunity to say no to people. That's not exactly why we're doing it. We are doing this to create an incentive to seek as early as possible. So when there's this limit of 8 years, you can say that it's clear that the closer to the eighth year you're looking for, the more chances you have of getting no, and it's supposed to prevent you, for example. let a child stay in Somalia or Thailand or elsewhere until the 14th year, since it is of course much, much more difficult to integrate, the older the child is special if it has been such a very rigid and strict upbringing in a patriarchal society with other cultures and values than our own.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602132450	Thank you, sir. Dan Jørgensen. There are no more brief comments. - Do you want to see him? - Yes, sir. Martin Henriksen to speak as rapporteur? - Do you want to see him? - Yes, sir. Marcus Knuth speaking as rapporteur? Does Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen wish to speak as rapporteur? She does.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602132515	I shall begin by making a brief comment on that, Mr President. Dan Jørgensen has just said on the platform that it is about motivating parents to seek family reunification when the child is as small as possible. If the child is 10 years old, when mother, who comes from another country, finds a Danish man and moves to Denmark, then the child is 10 years old. The consequence of this bill will be that all children over the age of 8 will be subject to an integration assessment. I ask about examples of children who are not integrable and if one cannot give such an example of an unintegrable 8-year-old child, then this law does not make sense. Why, then, should a system be put in place to assess the integration of all these children? So far, the children have been able to avoid being exposed to this assessment if they have been brought together within the first two years of their mother's legal residence in Denmark and the right to family reunification. I want to start by saying something about the procedure for this bill. I think that there is inflation in urgent legislation in the field of foreigners, and I have to say that I find this very, very sad. There is, of course, a reason why we have procedures for legislation, which means that a certain period of time has to be allowed from the time a legislative proposal is put forward until it is put to the vote and adopted etc. This is because, among other things, we want to have the opportunity to initiate a hearing before the legislative proposal is tabled, because we have an idea that civil society can bid with something relevant and because it is democratic to let civil society bid. I think we've had 24 hours for this bill. On the one hand, it is undemocratic towards the members of the Folketing, who do not have the proper time to understand it, and on the other hand it is undemocratic towards the people, civil society, who are not given the opportunity to be heard. That was, for example. Very interesting and relevant to hear Save the Children, Department of Human Rights and other organizations in this matter. In addition, when you rush and sloppy legislation through in this way, you run the risk of lawlessness. On the content, I would like to say that I think it is absolutely crazy to expose children to integration assessments. On the one hand, children can of course be integrated, and on the other hand children have the right to be with their parents. I think this should be a fundamental principle of Danish legislation. We have tabled two amendments. Fortunately, one amendment has broad support for, I was going to say, that is, support all around the Danish People's Party and the Minister's Party, because both the Social Democrats, Radicals, Alternatives, SF, Liberal Alliance, Conservatives and, of course, the Enhedslisten support a proposal which means that 6- and 7-year-old children, i.e. children between 6-8 years of age, should not be subjected to this integration assessment. That does not alter the fact that the law as such to me is completely out of order and we are voting against it. However, the consequence that this draft law would have without the amendment, namely that today's 8-year limit was reduced to 6 years, is thus prevented by this amendment. Children between 6-8 years of age are protected for integration assessment. That's a tiny little good thing. That does not alter the fact that we are voting against the proposal. We have also tabled another amendment to remove these integration assessments. After all, it is because the government says that a judgment has been handed down at the European Court of Justice and that we need to respond to it. Yes, you could choose to react differently. One could choose to react, not by, as the government does, exposing all children from now on to integration assessments. Instead, these integration assessments could be abolished. A third model could also have been chosen, for example. Say that the limit goes at 15 years, or I don't know what it is. The possibilities are many But, as I said, I think the procedure is deeply critical. I think that this is a lack of respect for the people and civil society. In terms of content, I must say that imagine that so broad a majority in the Danish Parliament believes that there are 8-year-old children who are not integratable in Denmark, and on that basis they say that those children should not be allowed to come to Denmark and be with their father or mother. I'll be damned. I strongly disagree, and the Enhedslisten votes against.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602133024	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602133028	I would be happy if I could hear the rapporteur's view on why it is wrong to assess a child's integration. Let us say that the authorities consider that here is someone who will not settle down, who will not be integrated into Denmark, who has better of being in his country of origin in relation to his or her affiliation, is it not a disservice to make the child take it to Denmark if it is the opinion that the child will not be integrated into Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160602133052	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602133053	Firstly, I believe that children can be integrated. I mean, I actually think it's a ridiculous claim that, for example... an 8-year-old child cannot be integrated, that officials should be able to sit and look at an 8-year-old child and say: We can assess that this child will never be able to be integrated into Denmark. Well, I think the claim is ridiculous. Secondly, I believe that children should have the right to be with their father or mother, so if you have legislation that means that mother is granted a residence permit in Denmark, I also believe that the child should have the opportunity to follow. Typically, these cases will concern, for example: a Danish husband or woman who finds a foreign spouse, and if you say to the Danish husband: You can have your Brazilian wife to Denmark and I also think that any children of the Brazilian wife should be allowed to follow because children must be allowed to be with their parents.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602133147	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602133148	Is the rapporteur aware that we have massive integration problems in Denmark, that we have massive problems with parallel societies, and does the rapporteur really believe that only people over 18 years of age have problems with integration, or can it also apply to some of those under 18 years of age?
ParlaMint-DK_20160602133205	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602133206	So I think it is obvious that there are problems with integration in Denmark, and I have to say that the Left has, of course, had the power and very great influence in this area for years. The Left has just introduced legislation, the so-called 'integration benefit', which could also be called an exclusion benefit, a poverty benefit which I believe will mean even greater integration problems. So the answer to the question whether there are integration problems in Denmark is obvious: Yes. Does this mean that one can conclude that an 8-year-old child cannot be integrated? No, sir. Marcus Knuth. In addition, it should appear to me to be a fundamental right for a child that a child should be allowed to be with his mother or father.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602133251	Thank you to Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen. There are no further short comments. We shall now proceed to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602133306	When there is a difference between how to vote exactly after the first and second readings, I think it is appropriate to go up to the platform and say that this is the case and why. It is the case that, at first reading, we immediately agreed to the proposal as it stood. Since then, however, there has been an amendment from the Socialists and others, which concerns the fact that instead of a six-year rule, you will have an eight-year rule. When we have chosen to support that proposal, it is because that proposal ensures that the content is more similar to the legal status that existed before. Well, that's what was wanted, isn't it? Now we have the European judgment that changes the rules and then we wanted to be in a situation where we were as close to what is applicable as possible within what is still possible. After all, it is not possible to solve the problem that has otherwise been raised with integration assessments unless they are abolished completely and that has never been our point of view. So we think it's fine that you now raise the limit from 6 to 8 years. After all, there has been a broad majority in the committee behind this. So we support that amendment and look forward to supporting both parts of this bill, because it was also shared, as the committee decided, in other words also with this amendment here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602133436	Thank you, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll. There were no brief comments, so we go to the next rapporteur. This is Mrs Josephine Fock for the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602133451	Thank you. The reason why I am choosing to speak here at second reading is that I have to deal with the urgency we are now once again faced with as a Parliament. This is not an easy proposal as far as content is concerned. Criticism has been voiced at the European Court of Justice, which the government chooses to rectify in a way. We have already heard that it could actually be done in several other ways. In addition, the original bill contained what we have heard about here on the platform, namely that you can bring your children to Denmark. The second part of the bill has been about giving people on integration benefit holidays. If I am to start with the latter, I would say that we have fortunately succeeded in dividing up the bill. There is broad agreement on this, and there was broad support in the Danish Parliament for the fact that, of course, people moving to integration benefit should be given the opportunity to earn the right to leave. This can be said to be another example of lawlessness when it comes to the urgent handling of a law. So that is what we are getting right now. What I really want to spend some time talking about is what's left of us. The original proposal was therefore that the government would now say that it should now be assessed whether all children are fit for integration from 6 years of age. One must imagine a father or mother who is in Denmark, and then questions are asked whether a child of 6 years of age can be integrated. Fortunately, there is a majority in committee for this limit to be raised to eight years. I am very glad that there is a majority in favour of this. What we would have liked there to have been a majority in favour is that children should not be assessed at all as to whether they are integrable. I do not think it is a very positive approach to have that one does not believe that one can have children integrated when their parents live in Denmark. I think kids have the right to be with their parents. We support the amendment which has, after all, raised the limit to eight years. I would still appeal to the remaining parties to support the abolition of the age limit. We are voting against the overall legislative proposal because we think it is totally untenable that it is necessary to assess the integration of children. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602133739	There is a brief comment from Mrs Karen J. Klint.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602133742	Thank you. Now I remember the story of why, back in 2004 at all, we had the first legislative proposal on it. After all, it was meant as a protection against children being sent out of the country on reeducation trips and then being brought back home again that they were actually cheated for a childhood in Denmark. Now we're overruled by the 2-year rule of that bill. At that time there was also a discussion about the age of children. What I would really like to ask for confirmation now is that this is about children who have two biological parents who have two capable biological parents and that it is not because you are alone in your country of origin and only have one parent who is in Denmark. So it can also be used to consider that the child has two parents. And it is not certain that it is an upbringing in Denmark that is the best. It could be the other one, too. So it's just to get a confirmation that this isn't about kids who are alone in the world. This is about children who also have a parent in another country.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602133844	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602133845	Well, I'd like to confirm that. But if the child has a parent here in Denmark who seeks to have his child in Denmark, then I still find it hard to see whether a child of 6 or 8 years of age can be integrated into Denmark. Of course it can. Well, there I really think age plays a very, very important role, and I think it is unsympathetic that you go in and make that age requirement.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602133913	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602133915	Nor do I believe that that age limit would come in today if it were not because it was about a law that existed in advance. So it could have been discussed in other ways too. We agree with that, and we have also expressed our criticism of the procedure in our contribution to the report. So it is not certain that we are done discussing age limits. But I'd like to promise to follow this law very closely to see if there's any rejection. Because if the refusals are given to such young children, it is because there is a reluctance on the part of the Danish parent to meet some integration requirements based on the factors that count in the assessments.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602133949	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602133950	Thank you so much. I'm really glad to hear that. But it's the baby that's being evaluated. It is the child that you look at, namely whether the child is integral. So it is the child who is outside Denmark who is looking at whether is integral. I'm sorry, but I'd really like to face the questioner. Thank you. That is why this is what we are questioning. It's a way to do it that I don't think is right. But I'm really glad to hear that the Social Democrats will follow this closely. Of course, I think that's really nice to hear.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602134024	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Dan Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602134028	It is just to correct the rapporteur, because it is said that only the child is being looked at. In other words, when you assess the child's integration potential, you certainly look at the parents too. You look at the parents' intentions to leave the child in the country of origin, i.e. whether you have deliberately left the child in the country of origin, for example. with a reeducational purpose. And you look at the integration of the parent in Danish society and the child's relationship with the parent in the home country. So there could also be a situation where, for example, there is one. was a father in Denmark who wanted a child to stay in Somalia for as long as possible, go to Koran school and other things. This was one of the reasons why the law was introduced. So I have to ask the rapporteur: if the rapporteur was given power, as the rapporteur's party has observed, what would the rapporteur's party do to prevent this kind of repatriation?
ParlaMint-DK_20160602134122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602134123	First of all, I would like to respond to the first point made by the Socialist rapporteur: that is absolutely correct. I just heard the questioner from the rapporteur's party, Mrs Karen J. Klint, just as she emphasised the parents' stay here in Denmark. It is absolutely right that both should be emphasised. I fully acknowledge that, that is absolutely correct. On the other hand, in relation to what we would do, I would still say that if you are exactly living up to the things that the rapporteur himself has been saying about the parent here in Denmark, then I still find it difficult to see what makes it impossible to integrate an 8-year-old child. I'll tell you what.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602134206	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602134207	Yes, it is possible, but now the rapporteur is arguing in favour of abolishing the integration assessment at all, and that is all I am saying: how will the rapporteur prevent a Somali father, for example, from sending his child to Somalia for a re-educational trip, in other words for re-educational purposes, and from ensuring that the child is in Somalia until that child reaches the age of 14? Well, that's one of the reasons why this criterion was originally introduced. How can we avoid this if we do not want an integration assessment?
ParlaMint-DK_20160602134239	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602134240	But I will avoid that in that way, that I will look again at what is important in relation to the person who lives here in Denmark. I mean, when I'm talking about abolishing the integration assessment, it's in relation to the child. I have the opinion that if you have a child of 6, 8 or 10 years of age, it is integral to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602134305	Thank you to Mrs Josephine Fock. There are no more brief comments and we shall move on to the next rapporteur. This is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602134315	Thank you. I'm sorry I'm late. It's hard to have so many things at once these days. I think I feel like the previous rapporteur, and this is how the Radical Left has had it, even during the years when there have been different legislations, namely that children have the right to be with their parents when it is in the best interests of the child. And it is also an assessment that is being made here. That is why we are very pleased with the amendment that has been tabled by several parties: increasing the age limit to eight years, but of course we are sorry that this is still a legal constraint because the two-year rule is deleted. I agree that this is what the verdict says, but it also means that a great many children of parents who have been here for a short time • children who could previously be brought together with their parents in Denmark • now also need to be assessed in the future. So we are sorry, and that is why we are voting against the bill. Most importantly, I must say now that that is why I am taking the floor here at second reading... this is about the process of this bill. Because these are so basic things that we discuss and change, and we do that in less than three days. In some of the answers I have received to my questions, two to be specific, the answer is that an answer to the question cannot occur, as it is not possible to obtain the information within the time frame. In fact, I think that is practically making fun of the people's rule. We can't have such a process. Because it has to be rushed through, the Ministry makes itself available and thanks to all the skilled workers there who have probably been on night work; they are not the ones involved. In concrete terms, it is about the fact that we cannot do adequate legal work when we cannot get answers to fundamental questions about how things are related when we have to legislate. So it's under all the criticism that this is going on. Therefore, I would also call for all rapporteurs and parties to consider whether it was an opportunity to wait for the third reading of this bill until there has been a concrete consultation process. This need not mean that we will start again in the next session, but that we will specifically postpone the third reading until August or September as soon as it can take place, and there has been an opportunity to actually get full answers to the questions we have asked, and full consultation answers from those people who know something about it and who will then have time to comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602134632	Thank you to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. There are no brief comments. Then I shall ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing whether she wishes to make her mild voice heard in this matter. She doesn't. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602134654	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 of a minority (EL, ALT, RV and SF), endorsed by a majority (other committee), that the bill is divided into two legislative proposals? The division of the bill into two legislative proposals has been adopted. The amendments to the proposal referred to in A are then put to the vote [Proposal for a law amending the law on aliens]. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2 of a minority (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), joined by a minority (LA and KF), which together constitute a majority, or on Amendment No 2. 3 of a minority (EL, ALT, RV and SF), elected by a majority (other committees)? They are adopted. The amendment to the proposal referred to in B is then put to the vote [Proposal for a Law amending the Act on Active Social Policy, the Integration Act and various other laws]. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 4 of a minority (EL, ALT, RV and SF), elected by a majority (other committees)? It's agreed. Then I have two options, either to move on to the third reading or to refer the legislative proposal back to committee. I did not quite understand whether the radical comment was a desire to get it back to committee? Then I can say that it has been proposed that the draft law be referred back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602134836	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602134902	As the very first thing I want to unleash the tension and repeat myself from a month ago. In fact, I said here during the question debate F 45 that the government will not go Danish alone because we want a common EU recognition. I would like to stress today that the government shares the objective of a Palestinian state, of a free and independent Palestine which is a member of the international community on an equal footing with other states. There is broad agreement on this in the Folketing, in the European Union and indeed in the international community. The government believes that there must be a solid political basis before we, together with the EU circle, have to consider recognition. Admittedly, the current Palestinian autonomy under President Abbas enjoys both Danish and international support for good reason. With great international support, the self-government has built up essential structures for use in a Palestinian state. It is now in many areas an organisational foundation for a future state, but it is not enough in itself. There must be a unified and democratically supported political structure behind a Palestinian state in order for us to want to recognise it. There is no such moment, and there has been no such time in Palestine. Gaza and the West Bank are fragmented, both politically and physically. Self-government sits in the West Bank, Hamas controls Gaza, without there being a common political project. That is why no democratic elections have been held in Palestine for more than ten years. This is not a situation that we, on the part of the government, want to reward with recognition. This is not a situation that can be said to be robust and sustainable, either when you think about it in a political context or when you think about it in a practical everyday context. Without order in the Palestinian House, it is not reasonable to expect considerations of Danish or broad international recognition. I would like to stress that all of this does not exempt Israel from co-responsibility for development. The Israeli Government is not doing enough to promote progress, in fact not much, and that is an obvious problem. Israel must put an end to the illegal settlements, they are undermining the possibility of a two-state solution. Israel must also take tangible steps to improve the framework for the daily lives of Palestinians, both in the West Bank and in Gaza. It only happens to a small extent. Denmark will work for any step that can bring peace and a two-state solution closer. But let me be quite clear: decisive progress towards a negotiated solution can only be made with a sincere commitment from the parties themselves. It's them and not the rest of us who have the key. Prime Minister Netanyahu and President Abbas have said that they want a two-state solution, but the words were not followed by action and certainly not if we talk about real negotiation. Israel, with its current government, does not seem to have the will and political power to work seriously for a negotiated solution. The internal division, on the other hand, prevents the Palestinians from appearing as a credible and legitimate negotiating partner. That is how completely cut down the basic challenge of one party's lack of will and the inability of the other party. Not only do Palestinians and Israelis have something at stake, we all do. The conflict has a destabilising effect which extends beyond the borders of the countries. It is used in the stories in the region of unfair treatment and thus fosters participation in other countries' conflicts. So the conflict has consequences, including for Europe, and that is why we have a huge interest in resolving it. On the Danish side, we support the initiatives that have been taken. In connection with the UN General Assembly last autumn, I myself took part in what was called the Quartet plus meeting, where the normal Quartet on Israel and Palestine, on a Middle East peace negotiations, was extended to include a number of countries. We have been invited to take part in the second round of the forthcoming French initiative to take part in a new attempt to create momentum in the negotiations, only by holding a new conference here in the early summer and then by holding a new conference in the autumn, where Denmark will, of course, participate when we have the opportunity to participate. Let me sum up: there is broad support in the Folketing for the objective of a negotiated two-state solution and there is broad agreement on the main points of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. This was confirmed by the adoption of V 53 a month ago, and I am very pleased with that. With regard to recognition, I would like to emphasise what I started with, namely that the government does not want to go Danish alone, we want a common EU recognition. And the government will work closely with the other EU parties to create the right political conditions for the recognition of the state of Palestine. I must therefore say on behalf of the government that we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602135428	There is a brief comment from Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602135431	Thank you. Thank you to the Secretary of State. Of course, I think it is a pity that the government cannot support this proposal. That goes without saying, since we on the part of the Enhedslisten have helped to table the proposal. But I would just like to hear from the Foreign Minister whether I should understand the Foreign Minister's speech in such a way that the Danish side will now actively support the French initiative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602135456	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602135458	I must admit that I was initially concerned about the French initiative, because the first interpretation of the initiative was an attempt to bypass the joint work of the 28 EU countries and to put themselves and other countries more at risk. The way it is being put in place now, and the way that Laurent Fabius, the then Foreign Minister, and the current Foreign Minister are putting it forward, is an attempt to re-enthusiasm in the negotiations by bringing pressure to bear on more parties. In fact, I think that France has made a quite excellent model, which we support, and that is also why we have accepted the invitation to take part in the later of the two meetings planned.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602135543	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602135544	I think it is a good thing that the government supports the French initiative, although it is of course sad that Sweden's example is not followed and that recognition is self-evident. But I would like to hear from the Foreign Minister: what if the French initiative does not succeed? What if we find ourselves in a situation where the French initiative does not come through, that a peaceful solution is not being created? Will Denmark, as a number of other EU countries seem to want to do, make an independent recognition of Palestine?
ParlaMint-DK_20160602135613	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602135614	What we have wanted is for the European Union to act together in this area because we can do more together than we can do separately. And we know that there are different positions within the circle of EU countries. There are those who are very much in favour of recognition and those who are very much against recognition. And then there is a middle group of countries which, like Denmark, say that the way Palestine is currently acting, there is no basis for making recognition. We will do everything we can to keep that consensus together, because we believe that we can create the greatest possible pressure together. And then I would like to warn against saying in advance that if something does not succeed, then we will choose sides in favour of one side. It creates some slightly distorted incentive structures before starting meetings.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602135702	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602135703	Thank you. The Minister referred to this point with the basic democratic structure of the Palestinian territories. I would just like to say that I find it difficult to see how a democratic election could be held now, since it is a complete blockade of Gaza, and then we have the West Bank, which is being cut away from East Jerusalem by settlers. So would not a democratic election suddenly divide a future Palestinian state into many small parts and thus actually write off the two-state solution? At least that's my concern. But what I would like to hear is the EU way. Of course we are strong if we are common in the European Union, but at some point we must also say: nothing is happening. So, how long do we have to keep believing that something is going on with the European Union? Does the Foreign Minister know that there are other countries that are really pushing here so that we see an EU recognition in the foreseeable future, or is it as far away as we have been waiting for already?
ParlaMint-DK_20160602135810	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602135811	It is true that there are problems with having democracy. I think every elected official sometimes feels that there may be. After all, this is the best we have. And it is not the case that it is simply a question of whether Palestine is currently holding elections in the current situation, but more than ten years have passed with changing ups and downs in relations between Israel and Palestine, and at no time in the ten years democratic elections have been held. I think that is a problem. You can have different views on that, but I think it is a problem. In relation to what is happening, I would say that there are a number of countries in the European Union that are ready to move forward, but there are indeed also a number of countries which are very, very opposed to us moving forward towards making an acceptance of Palestine. And I fear that if we do not create the basis for the EU to come together, we will be very divided, where it is not just a question of some more countries choosing to recognise, but that some countries will also go in exactly the opposite direction. Then I think we will find ourselves in a situation where the voice of the European Union will be very, very weak.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602135919	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602135921	This isn't just about democracy being difficult. It is about what would actually happen, what kind of situation we are in if we only hold elections in the West Bank and do not bring East Jerusalem with us and do not bring Gaza. So what we have to say is, where is the two-state solution? So it was not just about how difficult democracy is, but whether it really abolishes the whole solution we are going to talk about that we want. But in relation to what is happening with the European Union: how many countries are going to join? In other words, must we have all the EU countries convinced before we can recognise Palestine? Because it has a long way to go. After all, there are countries that want to go the opposite way, so will we not do anything until we have all the EU countries on this agenda?
ParlaMint-DK_20160602140001	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602140002	I would really like that crystal ball to tell me exactly when there is a situation that makes a majority of EU countries ready to move or that all EU countries are ready to move in step. I'm afraid I don't have that crystal ball. But I can say something about what are the prerequisites that need to be in place. There must be a prerequisite in place where both Israel and Palestine show a greater commitment to their own peace negotiations, because we have been ready for a long time and are still clear both on the Danish side and on the European Union's side, with support and help to assist and build both a security structure that satisfies Israel and a state-building structure that satisfies Palestine. However, this requires that the two parties themselves are more ready to come to the negotiating table than what we are seeing right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602140050	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602140053	In fact, I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that if it is to bear something with recognition of Palestine, it is in the European Union that it must be done and that the European Union must use it in their negotiating position vis-à-vis the parties. And we should not just play out with unilateral recognition, because then we are almost wasting a chance, a little like Sweden has done, and making it much harder to get in and take on a constructive role in the discussions. So my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is like this because my impression is that that is how many parties have it in the Danish Parliament whether there could be a basis for us to try to make a joint report on the basis of this motion for a resolution, where, hopefully, we can gather a broad majority in the Danish Parliament, which will clarify what Denmark's position in the European Union is. Because if the European Union, if I may say so, is the place where the arena is right now, it might be interesting to come a little closer to what the Danish position in the European Union is and should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602140153	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602140155	I think that it is a constructive proposal that we should try to look at what we can bring together together in a report. So we are now at a first reading on the penultimate day of the session of the General Assembly, and so it does not make the same sense to follow up on a regular committee reading and another reading at some point, as it does to try to see whether we can get together on a report. It is clear, and we will also hear that, if today's debate is taking place, as the debates tend to play out, that there is some scope in the positions of Parliament's parties, but that is why it may still be a good idea to try to see what needs to be done so that we can gather together on something that, like clarifying what a constructive role Denmark can play and, in my view, should play in relation to the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602140244	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602140245	Thank you for that commitment. I think that is certainly worth an attempt, because we believe that the European Union can, in fact, put greater pressure on Israel both to put an end to the settlements and to put greater pressure on Israel than the European Union has been able to do, which I fully agree with the Minister, unfortunately, does not have the will for peace, but may also put greater pressure on the democratic processes on the Palestinian side, so that their ability to enter into a strong negotiating partner will increase. But then it is naturally natural to ask what the government is thinking that Denmark's position in the EU could then be.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602140324	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602140325	I think that our position will be what is called a honesty broker in English, that is to say that we have neither engaged with one side nor with the other side, but are trying to pick up those things and point out both to Israel and Palestine where the knots are on each side. For it is as the Bible says: You see the splinter in your brother's ear, but not the beam in your own eye. And that is really the problem at the moment: one is so focused on the mistakes one can find with the other that one does not see at all the huge challenges one has with oneself. We can be involved in this and we can help to push and shape the EU's position on how to move forward in this matter. I think that is also one of the reasons why we have been invited to take part in the second of the two discussions in Paris.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602140414	Thank you to the Secretary of State. There are no more brief comments. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Nick Hækkerup for Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602140437	Social democracy fully shares the objective of a Palestinian state. We want a free and independent Palestine which can be fully recognised and equal member of the UN and other international organisations. We do so in the interests of the Palestinians, but we do so in the interests of the Israelis too, because the two-state solution is the only one that can ensure that Israel can have peace with its neighbours and the opportunity to live in security. A month ago, at the request of Holger K. Nielsen in Parliament, we had an excellent debate on the situation in the West Bank, where the parties gathered widely on a proposal for adoption. The context which prevailed at the time when we had that debate is practically the same as now, perhaps just with a deterioration on the Israeli side, it can be said, with the transformation of government that has taken place, with the new Minister for Defence that they have been given. But in the main, the situation is the same. If we take the Israelis first, there will be an extension of illegal settlements, not least around East Jerusalem. It is poisonous for the possibilities of a two-state solution. There are extensive restrictions on the Palestinians' freedom of movement and large areas of the West Bank are used for settlement roads, training areas for Israeli security forces, nature reserves, etc. In the large area of C in the West Bank there are demolitions are Palestinian structures, including, as we also talked about during the debate a month ago, projects supported by the EU, by the UN or by individual countries from the EU. There is limited follow-up to the violence perpetrated by settlers and there is widespread use of administrative detention. On the other hand, if you look at the Palestinians, it has to be said that the continuing division between the PLO and Fatah and Hamas, on the one hand, where Fatah is in fact uncertain about their support and Hamas fears about their power base in Gaza, is one of the things that has led to a growing democratic deficit, a lack of parliamentary and presidential elections and a legislative assembly that has not worked since 2007. In the Palestinian territories, the democratic space has become smaller, not only in terms of holding elections, but also in terms of complaining about arbitrary detention, the use of torture, abuse, reports of violations of freedom of expression and freedom of assembly, that women's rights are consistently trampled underfoot, violence against women and the socio-economic vulnerability of women are a huge challenge in Palestine. Finally, the Hamas-led de facto government in Gaza has in practice reinstated the death penalty. In this hornet's nest comes the present motion for a resolution that Denmark should recognise Palestine as an independent state. There's almost something ritual about it. There is no parliamentary assembly without the Enhedslisten having tabled the proposal. The motion for a resolution before us is a re-submission of B 21 from the parliamentary year 2014-15, which in turn is a true copy of B 52 from the parliamentary year 2012-13, which again stands on the shoulders of B 30 from the parliamentary year 2011-12. I think the arguments we have to hear will be about the same from different sides as those we have heard in the past. I expect the Enhedslisten, the Alternative and the SF with different forces and in different ways to say that if Palestine is recognised as an independent state, the relationship between Israel and Palestine will be more balanced. It is far from certain, it is true. That may be true. But it is nonsense that Denmark's recognition of Palestine will lead to balancing the relationship of strength between Israel and Palestine. A Danish recognition, which the motion for a resolution calls for, would in fact be a wasted strategic opportunity to do the right thing. Denmark must use the opportunity to recognise Palestine as an independent state at the right time and in the right way. When time is right is by nature difficult to say, but in a situation such as this, where the parties are as locked and far apart as is the case, recognition will have no effect whatsoever. The time must be when recognition will have a real impact on work to achieve a two-state solution. The right way to get recognition is to do so with other countries, so there is hope of impact. The reality is that Denmark cannot only move something in the solution of the conflict at the overall level. In the view of the Social Democrats, work must be carried out with a coordinated EU effort or as a coordinated effort by some of the major foreign policy actors. The French initiative mentioned earlier must lead to a peace conference later this year and is probably the most important thing for itself at the moment. Against this background, the Social Democrats cannot support the resolution before us.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602140953	There is a brief comment from Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602140957	Thank you. I think that most of us can just see the major challenges that are in the situation down there right now. The disagreement is then about how we can help further. What worries me is that the policy we see implemented, particularly as the rapporteur mentioned, in area C and with the settlements taking place in East Jerusalem, is in fact taking the two-state solution off the table. It is physically very difficult to see through. We want negotiated solutions and we have been negotiating for many years, but when are we going to act in a different way? Because it does not seem that any of what is done from outside has any positive effect at all. So when are we going to dive into the diplomatic toolbox and say: let us take something else up and let us do something? We're on a tipping point right now. If Israel's policy with its settlements continues, we will be somewhere else entirely. Then it is quite different drastic solutions that need to be found.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602141103	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602141104	We must do something when there is reason to believe that it can work and that it is not just a domestic internal embalming. We must do something when there is reason to believe that it can work. That is exactly what I said about when the right time and way is. So we have to do something when there is an opportunity for recognition to have a real impact on work to achieve a two-state solution, and we have to do it together with some others so that there are hopes that it can have impact. A unilateral Danish recognition now would just be a wasted strategic opportunity.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602141143	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602141144	I can reassure the rapporteur that this is not about national embalming or anything. When I am a co-author of this proposal, it is because I think it will have an effect. It is a serious proposal because in my optics we have to act. So I am actually a little curious again to know whether the rapporteur is not afraid of the developments we have seen in recent years and with Netanyahu's statements in the elections last year suggest that they will continue completely along the path of all the new settlements we are seeing in East Jerusalem right now, so that we are actually undermining everything we are talking about we want with a negotiated two-state solution, etc., and that we are simply getting so far away from it that we have to turn it all over and look at it again, because that is the development that I fear right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602141230	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602141232	However, if the rapporteur, as co-author, thinks that this proposal should be put forward now, because it is now of major importance, then one might wonder why it was also now exactly one year ago and now exactly two years ago and now exactly three years ago that this proposal was supposed to have the relevant impact. This isn't the time. This isn't the right way to do it. It is a repetition of a proposal which primarily serves for internal national Danish embalming on the left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602141306	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602141310	Thank you. I would like to say that I welcome the social democratic recognition of the perseverance of the Enhedslisten with regard to the recognition of Palestine. It is a commendation which, of course, we welcome with great pleasure. On the other hand, what I would like to hear from the Socialists is the following. Four years ago, when we had the debate, we did not want to recognise; there was no time. Two years ago, after Sweden had recognised, it was not the right time either. Now there are more than 135 countries that have recognised Palestine as a state, so the question is as follows: when do the Socialists think it will be the right time? If, for example, the French initiative turns out not to lead to anything, everything points to the fact that a large number of EU countries will go out and recognise Palestine independently. Should Denmark be part of that circle?
ParlaMint-DK_20160602141408	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602141411	In any case, with the rapporteur's own wording, it can be said that Sweden's recognition is an example of a recognition which had no effect whatsoever. The independence of recognition is worthless, the timing was mischosen and the way was mischosen by the Swedish side, because it is not something that has actually facilitated a development in the direction that one might have wanted, that is to say that Sweden recognised. To the second part of the question, this part about what we will do if the French initiative goes wrong, I would say that it would be a derisory act to commit ourselves in advance to what would then be done, because it would put false weights in the balance, but I am of the opinion that the Social Democrats are of the opinion that the best initiative would be if we could have coordinated EU action, but I think we can also imagine an effort coordinated by major foreign policy actors, which is therefore not necessarily the whole of the European Union. What is crucial to me was what I said, namely that you have a circle so large that you have reason to believe that this really will have impact that it will not just be such a Swedish blow in the air.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602141529	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602141533	Thank you. In fact, I think Sweden's recognition was very positive because it showed that EU countries can make an independent decision and recognise Palestine. This was a debate we had before at that time in the Chamber, when the Socialists and other parties said that we should wait for the European Union. Sweden showed that EU countries can choose to recognise independently. Now the debate is going on: should we do it today? The Socialists will not, and I think that is a pity, but what is in the cards is that the French initiative will not succeed; we will probably see France, Belgium, Luxembourg, Slovenia, a number of EU countries go out and recognise Palestine. Could the Socialists see that Denmark was in that circle? France is a large country, which at that time would, of course, be in favour of recognition. Could Denmark be part of that circle?
ParlaMint-DK_20160602141627	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602141628	The questioner says that Sweden's recognition was positive, in the sense that it did not change anything at all. It was a wasted strategic opportunity to do something right, because Sweden needed that Swedish internal embalming, so it was really wrong, in my opinion, that the Swedes did it the way they did it. As far as the second part of the question is concerned, it is crucial that we should be there when there is hope of real impact, that it can move something, that it can mean something, so that our weight will mean something, and that it will not just be this internal Danish embalming.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602141713	Thank you, sir. Nick Hækkerup. There are no more brief comments. We shall now proceed to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Claus Kvist Hansen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602141731	The question of an independent Palestinian state pops up at regular intervals and I listened with interest to the presentation by the previous rapporteur of the repetitions, and I have to say that I share the view that it seems to be almost ritual in nature. However, it remains the view of the Danish People's Party that recognition of a non-existent state without a comprehensive peace settlement would be unsustainable for all parties to the conflict. In order for an area to be recognised as a country, it is necessary that it meets certain criteria to which Denmark should refer. Recognition is not just something you can decide to be nice to a people who feel oppressed. Before any Danish recognition of a new country can be considered, there are some objective criteria which must be met. The most important of these criteria is, in our view, that the new country has a well-functioning regime, which in fact also governs the region. It does not have to be the whole territory that the new country requires to hold, but it must necessarily be a significant part of it. That is why national independence movements are actually working towards independence so that they can be recognised as states. I am aware of no historical example of Denmark having recognised a new country until this had de facto left the country to which it had previously been subject. Thus, in recent times, Kosovo and South Sudan are examples of the fact that a very substantial part of the territories that they claimed were actually dominated. This is a very important point for DF. If Palestine has become a recognised country, it must necessarily mean that it cannot be occupied at the same time. This is because the definition of being able to call itself a country is that the Palestinian Government actually controls a territory. In contrast, the definition of occupation is that the occupying power actually exercises control so that, in the opinion of the DF, a territory cannot arise as a country in the middle of an occupation, thus being born as an occupied country. In other words, if, on the one hand, Palestine is regarded as an occupied country, on the other hand, one cannot decide to recognise Palestine as a new country. It just doesn't add up. With regard to the recognition of Palestine, we have to wait until the moment when the so-called occupation no longer exists. The Palestinians want the best of two worlds. They want recognition as a state and, at the same time, could claim to be an occupied country. Following on from the foregoing, the Danish People's Party also considers that a state should be able to defend and maintain its own borders, but neither can it, in the view of the Danish People's Party. For the Danish People's Party, the matter is clear. We would like to see the establishment of a Palestinian state, but only after the parties have negotiated a two-state solution and all Arab states have recognised Israel and established normal diplomatic relations with that country. The DF cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution tabled.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602142021	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602142023	Thank you. That's amazing. The Danish People's Party strikes so many crosses for itself that it will be completely impossible to reach them. After all, the Arab countries will never recognise Israel and have a proper peace with them until Palestine is free and viable. Similarly, Palestine will never have stopped being possessed as long as the Israelis keep them occupied. And then it just leads to you never really getting anywhere. It is so sad that the Danish People's Party has the locked position. But what I would actually like to hear from the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party is the refugee situation. I was two days ago on Tuesday at Lesbos. That's where I spoke to Mohammed. He is Syrian Palestinians and with his wife and three children has fled the Yarmouk camp where IS and Assad are besieging the area. He really wanted to go to Palestine, he really wanted to be able to return to his country. He can't. Instead, he is now being chased on the run for Europe. Would it not be obvious that we had a free and viable Palestinian state so that Palestinian refugees from Syria could be allowed to return?
ParlaMint-DK_20160602142132	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602142133	I have to confess that I think the issue is wrong in relation to what we are actually talking about today. We are talking today about whether we should recognise an independent Palestinian state. Questions about refugees, about Mohammed and who goes from one place to another, I do not think this matter is relevant.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602142155	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602142156	I understand that the Danish People's Party is very reluctant to answer that question, because the reality is that Israel has not taken a single Syrian refugee, even though hundreds of thousands of Syrian Palestinians have been chased on the run right now, who could return to a free and viable Palestinian state. So frankly, why is it that Israel should be allowed to wipe off on Europe the responsibility of refugees who should be allowed to live in a free and viable Palestinian state now occupied by Israel? It should be an obvious position for the Danish People's Party to demand that the Syrian Palestinians be allowed to return to a free Palestinian state, and one could do so. I'm gonna do this by supporting this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602142239	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602142240	With all due respect to the rapporteur, I hear the rapporteur talking to himself about an issue which is not just on the border but, in fact, some distance from what we are talking about now. So the question of refugees and who returns to what is not what we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602142300	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602142301	There is, of course, this question of an occupied area or when one can recognise a country, and the rapporteur was just saying that the Palestinians would like to say that they were occupied and then they would also be recognised. I have not met any Palestinians who want to be possessed or, for that matter, go around saying that they want to have their own state. One thing I am a little curious to hear is whether the rapporteur is aware of the division of the West Bank into zones A, B and C, which in fact means that a Palestinian regime must not have control over the territory that they have negotiated in Oslo. Does the Danish People's Party recognize Israel's occupation of Palestine, that is to say it is an occupation, and does it believe that it is entirely in accordance with international law and in order that they have occupied this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20160602142355	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602142356	But now, with all due respect, I think I am repeating myself just with my face turned in a different direction. In my view, the questions raised by the rapporteur for the Alternative have nothing to do with what we are talking about today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602142412	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602142413	Excuse me, but the occupation of Palestine has everything to do with recognition, since the rapporteur says that we cannot recognise something that is occupied because it is not under control. Then the occupation is very much linked to recognition. It is the rapporteur himself who made the link in his rapporteur's speech, so the rapporteur must be able to respond to the Danish People's Party's attitude to the Israeli occupation of the Palestinian territories.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602142442	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602142443	But I will come back to you by saying, as things stand at the moment, that a country which, on the one hand, regards itself as possessed and therefore does not, what should be said, the exercise of government authority, cannot at the same time insist on being born as an independent country.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602142501	Thank you, sir. Claus Kvist Hansen. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Michael Aastrup Jensen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602142519	Thank you for bringing in our entire title, sir. President. Following the long and complex conflict between Israel and the Palestinian territory, I do not think there is any doubt that we all, across all parties in Denmark, the European Union and the rest of the world, want recognition of a free and independent Palestine that can enter the international community under the same conditions as any other state. However, there are certain realities which are beyond question: there is not yet sufficient political basis for recognition in the Palestinian area of self-government. Gaza and the West Bank are both physically and politically divided. Hamas sits in Gaza and autonomy sits in the West Bank. That is why, for more than ten years now, no democratic elections have been held in the Palestinian territories, and so there is a long way to go before there is a strong enough political basis in the Palestinian territories for us to recognise them as an independent and independent state. Such a basis is not present as the state is today. In addition, Denmark should not go alone in recognising Palestine as an independent state. It is limited how positive it will be in practice that Denmark alone recognises Palestine. Instead, we should be looking for a common EU recognition. Danish Middle East policy is already based on the line being taken in the EU, which is very committed to finding a concrete and lasting solution to the conflict. Since 2012, the European Union has pursued an active policy that the Member States are obliged to follow, including Denmark. And back in July 2014, the EU formulated the main parameters for resolving the conflict. They are based on the pre-1967 border between Israel and Palestine, security arrangements that respect the sovereignty of the Palestinians, a solution to the refugee problem and Jerusalem as a divided capital of the two states. Furthermore, in December 2013, the European Union adopted Council conclusions which put forward an economic, political and security support package for Israel and Palestine, if they were to conclude a final peace agreement. In other words, action is being taken in the European Union and we should therefore cooperate closely with the other EU countries in order to find a solution to the conflict. Indeed, a strong and united international society is the way forward if we are to avoid prolonging the conflict longer than is necessary. If you take a temperature measurement of what is in the area today, it is not because you become such a jubilee about the situation. I'm happy to admit that. In fact, you may even become a real, really big pessimist. For where, on the one hand, an Israeli government is seen, which is absolutely not helpful in trying to find a final and lasting peace, among other things. with their aggressive settlement policy, we see, on the other hand, that there are still Palestinian groups, especially in the Gaza Strip, which are beginning to make direct attacks with both missiles and knives and others against civilians in Israel. In other words, there are elements on both sides that are doing everything they can to ensure that we do not have a lasting peaceful and political clarification of a two-state solution. So all in all I am also a pessimist, but I just do not believe that it will help anything if we in Denmark suddenly say: Now we have found the solution and that is to recognise Palestine. Firstly, there is, of course, a discussion about what we actually recognise. Is it even a country? It is not coherent, it does not have political leadership over all territories, etc., as I mentioned. Secondly, it will also be the case that one of the two sides will be very unhappy about this. So that means that the whole idea of being a bridge builder between the two parties will disappear completely • little a la what we have seen after Sweden did so relatively recently. So, with those words, I can say that the Left cannot support the motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602143005	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of brief comments. First, it's sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602143007	Thank you. I mean, it's a little hard to talk about alone when there are 136 countries that have actually recognised Palestine, but leave it at that. After all, we have been very tough in our response to Russia when they went in and annexed parts of Ukraine. Then I miss a little bit of what our response to the annexation of Palestinian territory that we are seeing right now and which the Israelis are doing is. What's the response we're gonna make? I know that almost every year a resolution is being adopted by the United Nations, and what are we doing? I understand that the rapporteur does not think that this is the right thing to do, but what are we doing? I don't see it. I do not see what tools we are using to actually push this either on the Danish side or on the European Union side. What can we do, then, so that we can go somewhere where we can at least begin to think of optimism?
ParlaMint-DK_20160602143109	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602143110	I am not going to repeat what I said in my speech, because you can look it up afterwards and read it if you did not get it in the first place. But there I mentioned the concrete elements of what the European Union is doing in terms of trying to negotiate a solution. In fact, I also specifically mentioned at the end of my speech that I am not an optimist. I'm not. I'm happy to admit that. On the contrary, I am really, really pessimist about whether we can get a solution to the relatively short track in this area. But I just don't think it will help anything to think that we are now starting to recognise a country that is not a country on any parameters • have found the solution. We'll get nothing out of nothing. That is why I think we should try to say: okay, then we have to bite the edge of the table and try hard to negotiate a diplomatic solution. Is that hard? Yeah. Does it look really hard? Yes, it does. I just don't see any alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602143207	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602143209	I can reassure the rapporteur that I actually listened to his speech. The rapporteur can then rehearse the debate and hear my question, which is precisely what we need to do now. What we have done so far does not work, so where are we going to find new tools when, according to the rapporteur, it is not here? Yes, we've done something backwards, and it hasn't got us anywhere. So this is the time to think about something new, and we have made this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602143236	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602143238	To put it very, very briefly, and I have been saying this for many years, it is the case that the Palestinian territories must unite in a real government of self-government, which is not just on paper, and they must stop the concrete terrorist attacks against civilians in Israel. On the other hand, Israel must stop with its settlement policy and overly aggressive behaviour towards certain Palestinians. That's what this is all about. It's very easy to say, and very hard to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602143307	Then it's mr. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602143309	Thank you. I'm actually gonna follow up on Mr. Knox. Rasmus Nordqvist's question and ask the Left: Why is it that when Russia occupies the Crimea, they are met with sanctions from Denmark and from the EU, while it should have no consequence when Israel is occupying Palestine? Then the rapporteur says: yes, it has a consequence and we do all sorts of things. Well, frankly, the reality is that there is a very, very advantageous trade agreement between the EU and Israel. And the reality is that Israel has a viable, free state, while the Palestinians are occupied and are oppressed daily. So I would just like to hear from the Left: why are you not standing in this case when it comes to Palestine watch over international law?
ParlaMint-DK_20160602143355	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602143356	I don't want it to end with a history lesson in 15 seconds that I can see I have. I don't quite understand that in the first place, but it's a different matter. It is actually the case that history is completely different compared to Ukraine and Crimea and Russia. You have to say that. We have a situation in which Israel has been attacked over and over again since its establishment, and this has meant that, from so-called security points of view, they believe it is important to have this territory. Do I agree with that? No, of course I am not, and that is also why we have to push the two parties to negotiate a solution. But I also have to say that when it comes to the Palestinian people, and now I am cutting everyone off, what I know to be very, very difficult, because fortunately there are both good and bad people in a people who have to put their own house in order. So there is no point in believing that a solution can be negotiated when these groups are knife-attacking civilians, blowing up bus bombs and sending missiles in addition to innocent people who have done nothing. So that is not a lasting solution, so I am not one of those who simply say that it is only Israel's fault that we have not found a solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602143506	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602143507	But when this proposal is made, it is precisely to find a peaceful solution to a very long and bloody conflict; it is to end all killings. But I just don't think the Left answered the question. In other words, we have a clear UN decision that where the borders are to be, they are within the 1967 limits. We have a resolution following a UN Security Council resolution. Well, we're talking about clear international law. Why should Israel get away with violating it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160602143540	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602143541	I don't think Israel does either. Well, we keep pushing every step we take. We have both the Oslo Agreement and the evacuation from Gaza, from the occupied territories. But I also believe, if we really are going to start history, that it was the PLO which at that time chose not to take the outstretched hand generated by the international community. It was sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, who wanted to discuss history, so let's discuss history. And that's why today, so many years later, we are in this totally frozen situation. The problem is that you didn't solve it then.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602143619	Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602143621	Thank you. I would also like to say with Rasmus Nordqvist that it is not going alone when 137 UN countries out of 193 have recognised Palestine as a state. When the rapporteur says that it is not the right way to go, that the right way is to put pressure on, etc., how has it particularly helped in the last many decades to put pressure on? These are not two countries with the same level of military power and economic power. In the West Bank, it is virtually impossible to support itself, because the groupings that are can't grow very much because the water is being redirected. They cannot export their goods. After all, we have created a clientage system in which we have to spend billions of EU funds to keep this population alive because they are virtually unable to support themselves. So how exactly are you supposed to build these healthy systems when you're under occupation?
ParlaMint-DK_20160602143728	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602143729	First of all, I should like to say that I have just mentioned this on the previous question: the international community has pushed through an Oslo agreement and pushed through the Gaza Strip being evacuated in relation to the illegal settlements. So it is quite wrong to say that the international community has failed to deliver results. But back then there was a PLO which, because of internal struggles, what do I know, there are many stories about what did it? said no to getting a lasting solution. It was something that one could read later that President Clinton was really tired of, because he actually felt he had negotiated a really, really good solution in place. But it's history. Now we have to look at what we can do now. And that's continuing along the same path. It is no use simply to recognise a country that is not a country.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602143817	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602143818	Why isn't it a country? This is partly because the West Bank is hollowed like a Swiss cheese. Every day that passes, it is becoming less and less likely that it can ever become a country, because illegal settlements pop up everywhere. Every time you use this Hilltop strategy, where you set up two settlements and one way in between, the IDF, the Israeli military, has to go in and protect these settlements on illegal land. Every day that passes, there is less and less country to make a country out of. We are not sanctioning Israel for completely ignoring the UN, ignoring international law that says that settlements are illegal. And the Israeli government is just continuing at rocket speed to expand them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602143905	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602143906	Thank you. I could not really hear a question, but it is quite fair to only make a comment. I just think that if we go in and look at the results that have been achieved in the past, we can see that it is no use, so to say, simply choosing sides, as I think the Swedes have done. I don't think we're gonna get a single step further on that. Let us turn it around and ask rhetorical questions, because I cannot ask: what has Sweden got out of making this solo recognition of Palestine as a country at all? Well, have we gone one step further towards a lasting peace settlement for these two countries? The answer is no.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602143948	Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602143948-2	There is a clear yes to that. Indeed, we have come closer to a country that even more countries recognise Palestine as an independent state. So, yes, the Swedes have got that out of it, but it's not so much about what the Swedes get out of it. It is about what the Palestinians get out of it, it is about what the Middle East and world peace can get out of it. The rapporteur made a fantastic remark: Israel does not violate international law. That's fantastic. For nearly 50 years the UN has condemned Israel's occupation and demanded that Israel withdraw to the borders, so yes, it has. The UN clearly condemns the settlements, the UN has said that Israel must recognise the rights of the refugees. Israel doesn't care about everything. But what I can get from the rapporteur's speech is that we must not do anything that pisses off the Israelis. That's the essence of everything, because everything else is just some excursions. I would just like to ask the rapporteur: what progress can be made on this position? For that is the position that the European Union has taken for so many years. What concrete results are there in terms of a peaceful solution and recognition of Palestine?
ParlaMint-DK_20160602144106	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602144108	Thank you. I am often told that I shout too much when I am in the Chamber, but I must not have shouted loud enough when the Enhedslisten's rapporteur thinks I should have said that Israel does not violate international law. So I have not said that at any time, and I would like to make it clear clearly that I do not, of course. For Israel, the whole problem with this resolution is that you try to say: okay, now it is unconditional Israel that is the villain of this game. And I'm just not there. I believe that both sides must make concessions, and I have mentioned some specific examples in the past, which I shall not tire of. But that's what I think is the way forward. It's not to be a student, if you can say so, I don't think you can, but now I'm saying it anyway... one country rather than another as a villain and then just say that the other party is absolutely perfect.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602144216	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602144217	Then I'm sorry I heard wrong, and I didn't mean to. But I am glad that I heard wrong, because then the rapporteur was clearly told that Israel is violating international law. So it's fine. This proposal isn't about taking sides. It is about supporting a completely obvious and necessary step if you want peace in the Middle East. The rapporteur says that there are also some stumbled vessels in Palestinian ranks. Everyone behind this proposal agrees on that. Everyone agrees that a peaceful solution to this is what the Palestinians have the most to do with. Can the rapporteur not try to get in there between his ears, that recognition of Palestine is the best help that can be given to those who want a peaceful solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20160602144308	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602144310	Now I usually say that I am absolutely not argument-resistant, and neither am I. I just do not see a single good argument for Denmark to make a solo recognition of Palestinian autonomy as a country. First of all, because it's not, you know, it would just be such a pop statement. It is not a country, either from a political point of view or from an infrastructure point of view. From all points of view, it is not a coherent country today. Secondly, it is also because I think it would be directly detrimental to the further work of trying to find a solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602144346	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602144347	It was the rapporteur who started talking about history hours. It is therefore generally accepted that the borders from before 1967 are the borders on which we are based and that they must form the basis for future independent Palestine. There is recognition of this from virtually all countries when discussions are being held at the United Nations. There is only just the United States and a few more that are independent of, which then disagrees with it. Denmark is not. I would like to point out that the government's official policy is that there is a country that can form the basis for it, namely the country that is within the borders of before 1967. The Danish Government, whether it has been a Social Democratic or Left Government, has voted for this every time in the United Nations. Why do we have to discuss this? So I would say: why recognition? Yes, because recognition is, in my view, a cautious but effective way of doing so. What's the alternative? The alternative could be what I personally support, namely what is called BDS, i.e. Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions. It was cash settlement to Israel if you wanted to. As we speak and speak, young people are becoming increasingly radicalised, and I ask: will we accept the responsibility that it is not to act?
ParlaMint-DK_20160602144508	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602144509	First of all, I mentioned the 1967 limit specifically in my speech, so to begin to say that I do not also think the 1967 limit is vertically wrong. Then it's quite an apology I'm saying the ritual tribal dance we have at the moment. I have said clearly that I do not believe that there will be any beneficial effect of doing this while at the same time saying that Israel is absolutely no saint in my world far from it, and I have also mentioned some examples of this. So to try to draw it up as a bigger one, we should say disagreement in this Parliament, I think is very, very little useful. That is why I will just keep appealing for us to try to stick to what changing governments have been trying to say for many years: we are now running the EU track, now we are trying to negotiate a solution, and we are doing so with pressure, diplomatic pressure, on both sides.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602144607	Asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602144608	Well, it was the rapporteur himself who said that there was no country, and I had to get that in place. There is no benefit in not acting, I just want to emphasise. By not acting there is no beneficial effect. So, as I said, young people, as we speak and speak, are becoming increasingly frustrated and increasingly radicalised. And if I were young in Palestine today, I would probably also throw both the first, the second and the third stone against that military superpower who has occupied my country. It's something that goes without saying. I support one side. I always support the obsessed, and I will do the same in this case, and the government should do the same. It is absolutely ahistory to say that we should not support one side of this conflict.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602144654	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602144656	I must admit that what I am hearing from the Enhedslisten is unfortunately not surprising. I can only say that I strongly disapprove of the fact that members of the Danish Parliament think it is quite legitimate that there are terrorist groups on the EU's terrorist list that are shooting rockets, making bus bombings, knife attacks on civilian people who have no shares in this conflict at all. That it should be legitimate because we have this conflict, I can only strongly distance myself from it, because I strongly disagree with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602144726	Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602144727	Then it could be that the rapporteur had to listen a little more closely to what was said. What was said was that one also has a legitimate right to act against an occupation. This does not mean that you have the right to commit terrorist attacks or blow up buses. The rapporteur said earlier that Palestine is not a country. And that is absolutely correct. As long as there is an occupation by the Israeli state, the Palestinians will not be able to establish an independent state. That is why recognising a Palestinian state will also be part of a process. Although the Danish Parliament decided to recognise a Palestinian state, and although we can sometimes speak with a large voice in Denmark, it would not mean that tomorrow there was a well-functioning Palestinian state, but it would be part of a process to obtain a lasting solution. In this context, I would just like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur does not agree with the legitimate demand that the Palestinians have an independent state and that we recognise the independent state. And if the rapporteur agrees with that view, when is the time ripe for it? It wasn't four years ago, it wasn't two years ago, it's not now. When is the time ripe to recognise a Palestinian state?
ParlaMint-DK_20160602144845	I just want to say that there is a lot of commitment in this debate, and I have a great deal of sympathy for that. I am also trying to be lenient in terms of speaking time, but there is therefore a rather heavy overrun of speaking time. I repeat very clearly: the first round is in 1 minute, the second round is in 1⁄2 minute. Now it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602144901	Thank you. And then I will not spend too much time repeating what I said in my speech, saying clearly that I believe we should have a two-state solution and that we should have a Palestine as a country. I said that, and that was the beginning of my speech. So, of course, I mean, funny enough still gone here 10 minutes later. Let me also turn it around and ask the opposite question which I have tried to put to the various rapporteurs of the Enhedslisten who have asked me the question, namely: how many centimeters would we come closer to a lasting political solution and a peace solution, a two-state solution if we in Denmark decided to recognise Palestine as a country? Let us ignore the fact that this is not possible and that it does not function as a country because they are occupied and do not currently have a coherent government that works and everything else. Let us just ignore what in itself disqualifies from being a country. How many centimeters closer to a negotiated solution would we come by suddenly reporting, excuse my language, that now we have recognised Palestine as a country?
ParlaMint-DK_20160602145006	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602145007	Fortunately, the rapporteur now acknowledges that he fully agrees with the demand that the Palestinians have the right to an independent state. We are in complete agreement on this. So what does it take to complete that requirement? Now we are raising the demand today and asking that the Danish Government support the demand to recognise a Palestinian state. What, then, is it necessary for the government to follow up its own policy when it agrees that the demand is for a Palestinian state to be established? What's stopping us from doing this now?
ParlaMint-DK_20160602145037	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602145038	Will I then receive a written answer to the question I asked? I can then give an answer myself, and the answer is: 0 centimeters we get closer to a two-state solution. I understand that Enhedslisten does not like to give the answer, because the answer is not funny. It's not funny. Because it helps to illustrate that this motion for a resolution is merely a pop policy that is ritually put forward once a year and then we have this debate. Fine with me, it's an important topic, so let's just have the debate. But it just clearly illustrates that it is, I'm sorry to say, a pop proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602145114	Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602145116	I would just like to ask the rapporteur on the Left whether he has considered that there is a problem with the Israeli Government finding negotiating parties with the Palestinians because the moderate forces around the Palestinian authority are constantly being weakened. They will be among other things. Israel's policy has weakened. And has the rapporteur considered that this request was made by Abbas, which was put forward by the Palestinian Government, precisely in order to gain greater legitimacy among the people and that it could in itself create better conditions for peace negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20160602145205	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602145206	Well, I clearly recognise that we are unfortunately experiencing a group of young people, among others. the occupied territories, which are becoming more and more radicalized, I clearly recognise that. I also clearly recognise that they are being so radicalised because they cannot see any progress being made. I recognize that one hundred percent. I also recognise that we must do everything we can to help Abbas and his people. I also recognise that one hundred percent. We just disagree on the means of achieving the goal. Because I don't believe it helps with this one-sided recognition, I just don't. And then we can discuss it fairly enough, but I just don't think so. What can we do instead? Well, I think that we must always and still go away to make sure that when the Israelis do something wrong, we have to make sure that every time they do something wrong, we do it too. Diplomatic pressure must be maintained. However, as I have said from the outset, I am not optimistic. So it's not because you have to believe that I'm now a naive jubileeist who just says that if we go this way, we'll get a solution. That's definitely not what I'm saying. I'm really pessimistic; I just don't see any alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602145313	Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602145315	It may well be that the rapporteur of the Left thinks one thing and the other and that that is the way it should be. But I guess it's more important what Abbas thinks it isn't? In other words, it is he who is facing the problem, and if he evaluates, and if the government of Ramallah considers that it would actually have great significance for their authority, their legitimacy and their ability to negotiate with the Israelis, that there was recognition, is it not the argument that makes an impression?
ParlaMint-DK_20160602145347	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602145347-2	In fact, I would say that, of course, it makes an impression when Abbas thinks that something is needed. But that does not mean that I agree with everything he proposes. I also think that Abbas is too weak in terms of taking over control and in relation to the ideas which, among other things, are: is about a government of unity, etc. Therefore, there is no way, as I see it, of keeping the focus on both sides, that is. to talk to both sides what we would not be able to do if we only recognised one as a country and then that we then also try to help them as well as possible but it is not easy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602145423	Thank you, sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen and goes on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Mette Bock, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602145442	Thank you. This is an interesting debate. The Foreign Minister believes that some people see splinters in others' ears, but not the beam in their own eyes. And Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen talks about someone not accepting an outstretched spirit. In addition, we hear Mr. Christian Juhl talked about that he would probably himself be the first to throw stones if he had been young Palestinians. This suggests that there is quite a strong commitment to this serious matter, and I fully understand that commitment. Because it is not just a serious matter, it is a desperate matter. I myself am educated in philosophy and political science, and I actually think that the discussion, which we have once a year here in the Danish Parliament, raises some very relevant, deep questions about what a state really is. Normally, we say that a state is a territorially defined area which has a government, has independent jurisdiction and has institutions that can follow up on what is going on. Palestine is not living up to that at the moment. I do not think there is anyone here in the Danish Parliament who does not think a two-state solution should be found, but it has proved to be not just a difficult but seemingly an impossible task at the moment. But what is interesting to ask as the next question is: if you now imagine that you recognised Palestine as a state without having a territorial demarcation and the other things we normally demand for you to be able to call yourself a state, what is the next thing we should recognise? For example, does Enhedslisten want you to: should also recognise a Kurdish state? After all, we know that there is a Kurdish people and we know that the Kurds have some areas that they would like to make an independent state. Are we where, as the next step, we are also going to recognise a Kurdish state? And if you're going out on a really bad exaggeration: what about those who call themselves Islamic State? Is it anyone that could be considered recognizing? I know these are hypothetical questions, but I think we are touching something very central when we start talking about recognising states that are not actually states according to the traditional definition. And before we have a new definition of what a state is, I find it difficult to start recognising these states. I myself have visited Israel privately sometimes in recent years, and if Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen talks about being depressed, I would say that I am deeply depressed. I think it's terrible to experience what's going on. It is terrible to experience what is happening on both sides, and it is terrible to experience the frustration that young people on both sides experience. The young Palestinians are giving up hope. The young moderate Jews are considering leaving Israel. Some of them have, in fact, already done so while others are going into Israel to pursue a matter which will certainly not be easier to bring if it is fundamentalism, whether it be on the one hand or on the other. We in the Liberal Alliance believe that the only way forward is a Palestinian-Israeli two-state solution, and we are actually quite convinced that if such a solution is to be found, pressure from the international community is fine. However, if the solution is to be lasting, it is the parties themselves who must seize the task and negotiate on what this should look like in the future. It is the older generations who, as far as I am concerned, are currently the main obstacle for young people to get what they want on both sides: a two-state solution where they can live in peace, whether on one side or on the other side of the front line. So the Liberal Alliance cannot support the proposal, but we are happy to take the debate again in a year's time and also in every place where we come across the issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602145856	There are a number of brief comments. The first one's from sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602145857	It is sad that the Liberal Alliance rapporteur says it is depressing and then has no proposals for a solution. The rapporteur recognizes that the two sides are unable to do so. I think the Radical rapporteur made it very clear: the Israelis do not want to. The Palestinians are unable to do so. I think that is very significant. That philosophy thing is different. You can philosophize many things, but I'm surprised at that definition. Wasn't Denmark a state 1940-1945? Yes, it was. Would I not have had the right to throw the first stone against the Nazi German military when they occupied our country? Yes, I would have. It is governed by international law that one has the right to oppose a military superpower occupying one's country. I have never spoken in favour of terrorism or anything else, as the rapporteur of the Left suggested. I have said that I have the right to defend my country against military occupation at all times. So have the Palestinians. That is why I believe that the rapporteur should give an indication of how we are going to solve the problem, rather than being frustrated and not acting.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602150009	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602150010	I think we must face up to the fact that not all problems in this world can be solved from the perspective of the Danish Parliament. We support the initiatives taken under the auspices of the United Nations. The radical rapporteur suggested that we should try to see whether further pressure could be put in that direction. We have no problem with that at all. I am just saying that it is my clear conviction that if a real solution is to be found to this problem, it will not be resolved in the Danish Parliament or by putting pressure on the international community if the parties themselves do not seize the matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602150047	Asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602150049	In my opinion, pressure should be put on those who are occupied where they can be. It also turns out that every time the EU tightens up and says that they should not have such privileged solutions, starting with the cautious boycott, cautious sanctions or the cautious removal of investment in Israel, Israel reacts promptly. South Africa also did so when Denmark finally joined the official opposition to apartheid in South Africa. These were exactly the elements used to allow the strong power to understand that they had a primary responsibility for finding the solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602150125	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602150126	I don't really understand the line of thought. It is absolutely right that you are allowed to defend yourself if you are attacked. The Palestinians do. So do the Israelis. I think we should make that clear. What is quite different is that the pressure against Israel has actually been increasing in recent years. Has the problem come closer to a solution? No, not from my perspective.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602150151	Then it's mr. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602150153	To follow up Mrs Mette Bock's last comments, I would like to say that there is no doubt that the absence of peace is both a problem for the security of the Israelis and for the security of the Palestinians. That is precisely why we need a peaceful solution. When I took the floor here, it was because I am a little puzzled by the Liberal Alliance's argument in this matter. Well, I have great respect for Mrs. Mette Bock. But frankly, I think it's a straw-man argument you're making. The UN has made clear decisions to recognise Palestine within the 1967 borders and that this is where the borders must be drawn. So, frankly, as I see it, the argument that you do not know where the borders should be makes no sense. What you have to decide on and I would urge the Liberal Alliance to do with itself what they think about it is whether it would not be an advantage for Denmark to join the 136 countries that have recognised Palestine as a state. Because that would help to put pressure on the Israeli Government and thus, hopefully, help to create a peaceful two-state solution so that both Israel and Palestine can be free.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602150303	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602150304	Respect is mutual. Unfortunately, however, it is not the case that we can predict what will happen if we make one political decision or another political decision. I am of the opinion that even if Denmark were to recognise a Palestinian state, which does not have clearly defined borders, and I would like to maintain that, it would not contribute to a solution. When I am currently discussing with the people of Israel, I find that there is also a wild discussion about what this border should be, regardless of what the United Nations says. After all, that discussion is continuing, and it is becoming more and more difficult because more and more areas are being occupied, and it is difficult to find coherent areas at all. So, to the best of my knowledge, it does not contribute to a solution that we recognise a state that is not a state. We must find other ways to go and, above all, the parties themselves must take responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602150355	Asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602150357	I have to say that I am very surprised that the borders of Israel are being called into question. For that is basically what Mrs Mette Bock says, that is that there are Israelis who do not intend to follow the UN's clear decisions to respect the 1967 border, but intend to annex land, which is one of them. These settlements are taking place in areas which, according to the UN's clear decisions, belong to the Palestinians. That, then, is simply a question mark over where the borders of Israel are going. Then one might as well not recognise Israel as a state, as one does not recognise Palestine as a state, and for that matter one could not recognise Denmark as a state, since the ownership of the Kingdom of Denmark to Hans Island is being discussed with Canada. It's just to say, honestly, that's not an excuse. The Liberal Alliance must take a position, and I hope that at some point it will not be today, but perhaps at another time it will support recognition.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602150447	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602150450	I mean, I'm not here to make excuses. I am trying to explain why we have the position we have. That is no excuse, it is an explanation, and we are then trying to give our bid as to what it takes to find a solution. When you go right to the heart, it is first and foremost the responsibility of the parties themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602150512	Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602150514	Yeah, but that explanation isn't very helpful. In other words, when Israel was recognised, there were no defined limits, clearly defined limits. When Kosovo was recognised, that was not the case either. So it is not unknown that one goes in and recognizes a state without all the formalities being completely in order. If Mrs Mette Bock then says that her answer is that the parties must deal with it themselves, I must say: Lord, Lord! Everyone can see that they can't find out. That is why we are talking about the weak side; we are not talking about equal partners, because if there were, we could perhaps discuss it, but we are talking about enormously unequal parties. When the weak party then asks for our help, it is quite limited whether it will help me not be able to say that, I think it will, but it is a request for a little help to be able to stand a little better in that negotiating situation, and then it is also a contribution to the parties being able to deal with it themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602150621	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602150622	So let me take the argument one step further; it can certainly bring Mr. Holger K. Nielsen out of the chair again. In the Liberal Alliance, we do not recognise the Israeli settlements... we are critical of them... but neither do we recognise the Palestinians' attacks on the second part. The two things are absolutely clear. And then you might ask: what kind of help do we give by going in and recognising this state, which is not yet a state? Isn't it just sitting back in the chair and saying, "Well, we've done it, and I guess everything's gonna be okay?" Thinks sir. Does K. Nielsen himself believe that the problem will be solved by recognizing this Palestinian state, which is not yet a state? Thinks sir. Holger K. Nielsen himself? I don't think so, but let me know.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602150712	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602150714	Well, I actually explained that just now, that is, it was a modest contribution to it. Of course it doesn't solve the conflict. I say that it is the case that the weak party has asked the international community for help, among other things. by asking for the recognition of Palestine as a state. And that is in order for the weak party to become a little stronger, to gain a little more legitimacy and thus to enter into a real negotiating position with Israel. That's a whole different thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602150751	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602150753	Well, for me, it's not like that. If we recognise a Palestinian state now, then we also recognise the way in which the parties involved in the conflict are acting today. There is absolutely no need to recognise that, and that is why the right order in the steps to be taken is that the parties should find a way to reach an agreement on a two-state solution that we can then support by the international community. Until then, we do not deny that the international community via the United Nations, via the European Union, and what else we have been able to go in and put moral pressure on what is quite unacceptable in the area. But we do not believe that recognizing a state should contribute to a solution. This is a real political disagreement, and I just think we should note that we have it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602150842	Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602150844	Thank you. It is actually a clear question in relation to what the rapporteur said in his speech, where there was almost such a comparison between a Kurdish state, Islamic State and Palestine. And I just didn't understand that connection. The Israelis question certain limits that have been defined and, in relation to all the UN resolutions, there are therefore some settlements, in other words the occupation of an area which has been declared illegal and which I could also understand the rapporteur was wrong. How, then, can you compare it? The Liberal Alliance has the positions they have on this issue, but I am actually looking for a deepening of this comparison with the Islamic State and a possible Kurdish state. I think it is a very different issue that we are dealing with here, a very, very different issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602150938	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602150939	Of course that is another problem. I used it as an example of how our perception of what a state is is currently slipping away. Some people are trying to adopt a concept of state in order to achieve something. And it seems communicatively incredibly strong, we can see in the world today if you call yourself a state, even if you are not a state. So it is really just an attempt to illustrate that I believe that if you are to have an international legal order, you have to be quite sharp on how to define a state. And if things start to go down in relation to those definitions, then it will also be difficult to maintain an international legal order.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602151021	Asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602151022	But it is the occupation of the country that makes it impossible for it to have the institutions that the rapporteur says it needs in order to be able to declare itself a state. After all, it is the Israeli occupation of the Palestinian territory that will never be able to meet those definitions. So if Israel never chooses to abolish their occupation and this annexation that has taken place of some others' territories, then that will never happen. Is it not a very passive role, in that we are therefore part of an international society, that we should just stand by and wait for the Israelis to perhaps one day want to do so? We know that the current Prime Minister will not touch it, so should we just wait?
ParlaMint-DK_20160602151103	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602151104	We are not just waiting for this to be discussed in the international community. There is a quite serious shift in attitudes, both in Europe and not least in the United States, in relation to the sight of Israel and the way the Israeli Government acts. So you don't just stand still, you keep discussing it. So it's not like nothing's happening at all. There is a great deal going on and how much pressure it takes for the parties themselves to recognise that they must take matters into their own hands, Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist or I know.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602151135	Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602151137	Thank you. With all due respect for the rapporteur's long-standing philosophical studies, I fear that the rapporteur skipped the hours when there was logic on the agenda. I think that's part of the philosophy study, too. I haven't done it myself. The rapporteur says that if we recognise Palestine as a state, we also approve the way we behave. I believe that the rapporteur is thinking of actions that we agree to condemn, i.e. terrorist attacks against civilians in buses, rocket attacks from Gaza, etc. In fact, I think we agree to condemn a large number of these things. But we know that Israel is a state. There is no one in this Parliament who would suggest that we should not do that. Do we therefore approve Israel's actions towards the Palestinians? No, of course we don't. After all, the rapporteur himself says that the Liberal Alliance, and I am delighted about that, strongly condemns the settlements, so that argument is not linked. Would the rapporteur not agree to that? What is actually the main reason why the rapporteur will not support this resolution? I just can't figure that out.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602151254	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602151255	I can reveal to Mr. Simpson. Finn Sørensen, that logic was one of my favorite subjects, and I actually did pretty well. Having said that, however, the world looked completely different at the time when the state of Israel was recognised. I guess we're agreed on that. Today the situation is completely different and, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, the situation has gone from bad to worse. If today had been faced with how these recognitions were to take place, then I think we had had some quite different discussions from those we had at the time when the state of Israel was recognised. We are all talking about the two-state solution, but I would like to say that the optimum and very best solution, which everyone has stopped talking about, because no one any longer believes in it, would be to have an Israel where there was equal right for all where human rights were respected, a society in which everyone respected the same laws and had the same rights. It was a discussion we had 10 and 15 years ago. That's all we've got. That is why we are following the path of a two-state solution, and on the day that track has been completed we are ready to talk about recognition.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602151411	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602151414	I just note that, despite his diligent logic studies, the rapporteur could not respond to my very simple point that the rapporteur's arguments are not linked. Neither does the whole discussion about the state. One can philosophise at a long time, but the problem has been resolved, as the UN has given Palestine diplomatic status, and that is quite enough for us to be able to recognise Palestine. Then there is the question of borders. Could the rapporteur please read the motion for a resolution? For it says how it should be done, namely that the starting point is the 1967 limits, and then there must be a negotiation between the two parties. It's not that complicated. What is the reason why the rapporteur will not support this resolution? Now I have just tampered with some important arguments put forward by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602151506	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602151508	I would like to repeat it, and it is possible that Mr. Finn Sørensen disagrees, but the reason why we do not want to recognise Palestine as a state is that Palestine is not a state.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602151519	Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602151521	I'd like to continue a little along the same lines. The UN and the World Bank and the IMF say that Palestine fulfils the conditions for independence. And if the Liberal Alliance does not have a fundamental objection, what I could also hear from the rapporteur of the Left, that is to say that there is no objection in principle to the recognition of Palestine as a state; it has the Liberal Alliance; okay, then I would like to hear: what is the fundamental opposition to the recognition of Palestine as a state? And what must the Palestinians achieve in order to obtain the approval of the Liberal Alliance for the creation of a Palestinian state, in other words the recognition of a Palestinian state?
ParlaMint-DK_20160602151604	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602151605	The prerequisite for us to be able to recognise a Palestinian state is that a two-state solution has been found, on which the parties agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602151613	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602151614	Well, it's not usually a criterion that you set up to recognise states. Nor are we saying that Syria should no longer be recognised as a state because it behaves brutally towards its own people. In other words, the principle of being able to gain recognition of a state is surely that you have the right to independence. In fact, I thought that the Liberal Alliance also supported the Palestinian people's right to autonomy on their own territory.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602151639	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602151640	We are absolutely in favour of a two-state solution. If you move around in Israel, you will know that the discussion about a possible border crossing is not finished. The UN has some views on it, others have a view that it should be the 1967 borders, and again others have some other views. That discussion is not finished.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602151704	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and move on to Mr Beazley's report. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602151712	Thank you. We must recognise Palestine as an independent state because we have an opportunity to make a difference in the name of peace and justice. In the alternative, we say yes to recognition because we believe in the right to national self-determination. We see it as our duty to use all the means from our diplomatic toolbox to create a solution that guarantees Israelis as well as Palestinians freedom and security in each of their states. For me, this proposal is not about being for Palestine or against Israel. For me, it is about fundamental principles, about international law and about supporting to ensure that our own foreign policy is implemented, rather today than tomorrow. 136 of the world's countries have already recognised Palestine, so we are not talking about a Danish one. I was in the spring twice in Israel and Palestine, and on the trip I actually learned more about what is happening in the areas right now, both in relation to this more politically, but also the completely concrete everyday life was well highlighted; the everyday life of the Palestinians and the Israeli state. I felt a longing for peace and freedom, and unfortunately I also saw that there is much, much further. It is difficult today, if not impossible, to find bright points when it comes to realising the two-state solution that most people in here want so much. Developments on the ground are working in the opposite direction to the realization of what is to bring peace to both peoples. No diplomatic negotiations are really under way. The Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu stated in the election campaign last year that he will not work for the establishment of a Palestinian state. And with that announcement, it is clear that we cannot sit with our hands in our laps waiting for sudden progress. It is true that there are also very few bright points on the Palestinian side. The division of political leadership and territorial division between Gaza, the West Bank and East Jerusalem mean that the Palestinians have no unified political leadership. There is growing frustration, especially among young Palestinians, who neither see Fatah nor Hamas as credible and desirable representatives. I hope that recognition will strengthen the progressive and democratic forces of Palestinian society. They deserve our support. At the same time, Israel is expanding its settlements at a high pace, which, day by day, reduces the opportunities for a viable Palestinian state. Today, over half a million settlers live on Palestinian territory. The fact that time is working against a solution should not stand in the way of recognition, on the contrary. After all, the developments outlined put some of a dampening effect on optimism, and this underlines the need for external action. Extreme pressure is needed to rethink the role of diplomacy. A solution can only be reached through a combination of external political pressure and negotiations between the parties. Europe and the European Union can and should play a greater role here. Under the present conditions, the parties cannot resolve the main fragility of the conflict alone. Europe already plays an important role in Israel and Palestine historically, politically and economically, but Europe has been in the shadow of the United States for far too long. We in Europe should step into character and redeem our unexploited potential as a diplomatic power much more offensively. I would have liked to have seen a united European Union which, together, could help set the agenda through a pan-European recognition of Palestine, but since it is unfortunately not possible, Denmark should join the Glee Club of European pioneer countries and say yes. A Danish 'yes' will hopefully strengthen the progressive forces in the EU and strengthen the possibility of an overall EU recognition. But a Danish 'yes' does not stand in the way of an EU recognition, but can help pave the way. A yes today can help to strengthen the diplomatic process. It is in the interests of both parties, not least peace. I see recognition as an important addition to political negotiations, perhaps even as a lever for diplomatic action, and not as critical arguments it says as a stick in the wheel of these negotiations. I support recognition because the Palestinians have the right to a state and to national self-determination. That is a question of principle to me. A yes to Danish recognition of Palestine as an independent state shows that we are ready to put action behind our words and actively supporting the realisation of a Palestinian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602152211	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602152216	Thank you. I understand that the alternative wants us to be a major diplomatic power. That sounds great. Is not the basic preface of diplomacy that we should be able to talk to both sides? What has happened to Sweden since they made the recognition of Palestine with their solo announcement? Is it not true that Israel has told Sweden's Foreign Minister that the Foreign Minister is not welcome in Israel? How will you be a diplomatic superpower if you cannot talk to both sides?
ParlaMint-DK_20160602152248	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602152249	Now it is my turn to lecture the questioner to listen to what is being said or to look at the record. I referred to Europe I think it is important that we act and we have to push on. And if we also push on, just as Sweden pushed on with their recognition, then what is starting to happen. Everything we've done so far results in nothing. Then it may be that Israel is angry for a while and does not want to talk, but we have to act, we have to act. By just sitting around and waiting like we do now, nothing happens.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602152323	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602152325	At any rate, we can talk to both sides. That is where the whole challenge is, if you think that by recognising a country which is not a country, you have suddenly come much closer to a peace process. So let me turn it around and ask the question I have now asked a great many times, but have not really been able to get an answer to: how many centimeters do we get closer to a two-state solution if we go in and recognise Palestine here in the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20160602152351	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602152353	Firstly, we try something new instead of trying what we have done over and over again: doing nothing. Well, talking to two parties doesn't help. When we see how EU-supported projects are demolished in Area C of Palestine, that is, the Palestinian West Bank, then we say shitty. We get that out of talking: nothing. That is why we need new action.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602152418	Then it's mr. Nick Hækkerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602152421	Before that, sir. Finn Sørensen was here and now he's gone again; apparently the debate wasn't so important to him either.He said that there are stumbled vessels in the Palestinians too, and then he knocked out with his hand and said: "We all agree on that. Does the rapporteur also agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160602152441	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602152442	I really am. And we need to help rebuild a democracy and a political culture. However, I find it difficult to ask the Palestinians for this right now, when they have de facto divided the territories into three East Jerusalem, the West Bank and Gaza. I do not see how we could help them or how they could bring together an area of which one part, Gaza, is completely blocked. East Jerusalem is in the process of completely piercing with settlements that go into the middle of urban areas and take houses around to divide it up. And then you make settlement roads around that make the Palestinians not actually able to get around in their own territories on the West Bank. So if we do not actively support and push a process, I find it hard to see that we can just stand by and wait for something to happen on its own.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602152536	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602152538	I understood that, in other words, what the Israelis can be burdened with, and I also agree with what I said in my rapporteur's speech. What I would like to ask the rapporteur is what sort of stinging vessels are in the Palestinians' hands and like all of us in Mr Beazley's report. Finn Sørensen's statement was so he couldn't stay here... he agreed there was. That's not what makes it difficult, etc. I'm asking. But what is the rapporteur's view of some broken vessels that are in the hands of the Palestinians?
ParlaMint-DK_20160602152608	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602152609	Well, first of all, it is a question of making a huge criticism and disapproval of the way Hamas acts in Gaza with the regime they have. In relation to PA, there are also problems with corruption and so on, and that is also what we all know about. But the question now is how to move forward. Are we going to keep on saying that? Or are we doing this by going in and supporting the creation of a unity government and saying: how can we bring about real democratic elections again in these areas? That's what I'm really preoccupied with. We can easily point the finger at them all and say that something wrong is happening just that you can sit on the tenth year of a four-year parliamentary term is a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602152651	We are grateful to the rapporteur and we go further in the rapporteur's report to Mr Beazley. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602152658	Thank you very much, President, and also thank you to the Enhedslisten, the proposers, for bringing this discussion up again. It is quite timely and appropriate to take this discussion at least once a year, simply because the situation is intolerable, especially in the occupied territories, and because the world community has had to look for many decades now at a conflict which is becoming increasingly deadlocked and with great losers, especially in the civilian population, not least on the Palestinian side, but in fact also with regard to the long-term security of both peoples, as several have said. I agree very much. I think I have been using the same wording for many years, namely that there are two major barriers to the two-state solution, which is the only solution, i.e. with an independent state in which the Palestinians can live in peace and quiet without settlements, without abuse. It is the only way forward that can bring lasting stability. I have also used the wording that what stands in the way of it at the moment is a lack of will on the part of Israel, and a lack of ability on the part of the Palestinian side, because unfortunately we still see a deep division on the Palestinian side which makes it difficult to stand strong in the negotiations. I therefore also have a very great desire to recognise Palestine as a state. We have that from a radical point of view. We have a clear hope that this can be done. So what we are discussing today is simply the question of when it will happen. I have to say that if, from the background I have now seen in relation to the negotiations in which I have tried to take part, both at European and international level, and the talks I have had, both with the Palestinians and the Israelis, I had the slightest faith or hope that unilateral recognition by Denmark would make any positive difference to the process, then I would recommend a yes today. However, I have the very opposite view. And it's been strengthened since the Swedes decided to go as they did now, I can hardly remember whether it was country no. 134 or 135 to carry out such unilateral recognition. Because the only thing that's happened about it is nothing at all. And my fear is that if the rest of the EU countries now drip out recognition, absolutely nothing will happen about it. If the recognition card as one of several is to be able to make a difference, then the minimum requirement is that it is one that is drawn at European level and as part of a common EU action. That is why I think that today, when the debate is about recognition, it will be a very good one and I hope that the proposers will be prepared to try, now that we cannot agree on unilateral Danish recognition, to try to clarify what might be called the minister's mandate in the European Union. Although it is the prerogative of the government to conduct its foreign policy, I nevertheless think it would be exciting if we could have a broad adoption that clarified Denmark's position in the European Union on this issue. And I would be happy to say in a direction where the delicate balance in this does not arise in advance: if the negotiations that come to the forthcoming conference in France do not lead to something • and I fully agree with Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen in that Denmark must wholeheartedly support the conference and the efforts that have been made, then we do not recognise. If that is the case, then we can find ourselves in a situation where the Palestinians have a little less incentive to actually reach an agreement at that level. But maybe we could do something else. Perhaps we could clarify what Denmark's role should be, how the pressure should be put and what we can do together in the European Union. For I must say, with reference to the rapporteur of the Alternative, that Denmark's ability to influence this alone is very limited. And they would be non-existent if we actually recognised Palestine, which is another matter. That is also Sweden's experience. But if we are going to make a difference, it is in the European Union. On the other hand, I think that Denmark could play a more active role if we could agree on a solid mandate from the Danish Parliament. And it could make a difference. Having said that, and I hope that we will then be able to agree on this, I think that the recognition card, whether it be played unilaterally or in the context of the European Union, is not the strongest card we can play with the parties. I think, and I think that experience has also shown that the cards that work best are the economic cards. That is where trade is concerned, it is where support and preferences are concerned, and this applies to both Israel and the Palestinians. And that's why, personally, I'm a little more concerned about playing those cards. But that should not prevent us from discussing recognition.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602153225	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602153229	Thank you. When we had this discussion four years ago, the position of the Radicals was that Denmark should not recognise, but wait for the EU to do the same. When we had the discussion two years ago, the position of the Radicals was that Danish should not be recognised. One had to wait for the EU to do the same. We know, of course, that unanimity in the European Union is required to take that decision, and that basically means that the most backward countries in this issue will be able to hold Denmark back. So I'm just gonna ask sir. Martin Lidegaard: Is there a time when it could be argued for the Radicals to make an independent Danish recognition, or should we give the right of veto to the most backwards in the European Union now and in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20160602153318	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602153319	Let me start by acknowledging that the position of Radicals is consistent and does not change, whether you are in government or not in government. In other words, if at some point I and we radicals were convinced that it could actually benefit the Palestinians themselves, then I will not rule it out. But I think this is going to be difficult, and it is because I do not actually agree that the European Union's position has not moved in this area. In relation to recognition, it may not have, but in relation to, for example. in writing. - (SV) The labelling of goods and the recommendations made in relation to the settlements, I believe, in fact, that the position of the European Union has moved. And I also believe that this is the only thing Israel has reacted to. The only times we have seen Israel move de facto have been when the European Union starts touching it. I have said and will say it again, for example. come to Israeli companies whose main job is to invest in settled areas and have a business model that is mainly linked to it, I would like us to go in and try to bring the European Union together as well. I believe it has a much greater effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602153434	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602153436	I'd like to work together on that. I would then suggest that in the new session we join forces in the Enhedslisten and the Radicals and other parties who would like to do so, to look at how we can put forward proposals on this and raise that debate so that we can put economic pressure on Israel. Because there is no doubt that there is a need for this, and when that pressure becomes sufficient, Netanyahu will also come to the negotiating table. We are in complete agreement on this. What I just want to ask the radical rapporteur is: could the collapse of the French initiative be the occasion for which we recognised it? In other words, we know on the water pipes that France and a large number of other countries will go out independently and probably recognise if the French initiative does not materialise. Could Denmark be part of that circle?
ParlaMint-DK_20160602153520	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602153521	I think that if we see a French conference leading to nothing, one can imagine that a momentum could be created in the European Union, and I would like Denmark to play a part in that momentum. Where I put my heels in is the idea that, in order for us to feel like we have done something good, we must recognise Palestine, despite the fact that we are thereby cutting ourselves off from the opportunity to play an active role in what position the European Union should take in the future. So, the point is that recognition here is a card that you can play, but you can only play it once, and I do not think we will get anything out of playing it unless it is played in a European solution, and I would very much like to try to do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602153605	Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602153607	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. I agree that it would be fantastic if the European Union were united in this. But we just have to look at the fact that both here and in other cases it does not necessarily have to be where we stand in order for us to get something done. Only 23 of the EU countries have recognised Kosovo. We've been able to do that anyway. And would it not be just supporting the push to get an EU position if we went with Sweden? Ergo wouldn't Sweden stand alone, because then we would stand next to it. And the majority in the European Parliament in this very symbolic vote was also about supporting it and thus pushing for a common European position. Well, I'm just a little worried about how long we have to wait, how many people have to move and how long it has to take before anything happens. Because we are, and I think the rapporteur agrees with me on this very, very critical point right now, because what is happening in the West Bank and East Jerusalem with the settlements is really challenging the whole idea of a two-state solution. So how long do we have to wait for us to get the European Union in?
ParlaMint-DK_20160602153720	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602153721	I agree with the latter part of Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist's analysis, and I believe that the easiest thing to unite the European Union is to oppose the settlements. I believe that all the countries of the European Union, even those who are Israel's greatest friends, recognise that Israel is shooting itself in the foot and making it much harder to have a Palestinian state and to have peace with the Palestinians. In addition to the fact that what is happening is bloody injustice to the Palestinians themselves. So there is no doubt that going against settlements is one of the tracks that can be pursued under the auspices of the European Union. I also believe that there is a long way to go before we can have a pan-European recognition of Palestine. I just think that if Denmark is to have any opportunity to influence the European Union in this direction, we cannot throw away the only card we have in this context, namely our own voice. When I look at Sweden and the marginalisation that is going on in Sweden both in the European Union and in relation to the parties involved in this issue, I do not think it is an example of follow-up, actually quite the opposite.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602153822	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602153823	You may be marginalized when you stand one. But then you stand two, then you stand three, then you stand four, and there's gotta be something that makes people move at some point. It only worries me how little is happening at EU level in this area. Now, like the rapporteur, I have not been Foreign Minister, and it may well be that there is a lot going on behind closed doors. But what we see from the outside is that nothing happens. That is why I think it is important that we support Sweden's taking a step. So let's do the same. The hard part is taking the first step. When the next one does, suddenly there's a couple, and then that's what can create a movement. But nothing's gonna happen if we don't do anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602153902	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602153903	After all, Sweden is by no means the first country to have recognised Palestine, not even in Europe. There's 134 or is it 135? And that's my point. We need to focus our actions where it is useful instead of conducting symbolic policy. I think the matter is too serious for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602153930	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602153933	Thank you. I think it is interesting to discuss what the rapporteur mentions. The whole thing about making a report is completely on the flat hand and trying to influence the European Union as much as you can. But recognition is a very good objective in any case, and I do not understand that modulation. However, I would like to focus on something else: the economics. I personally am convinced that the economic aspect is one of the most effective if Israel's attitude is to be changed. They have always been dependent on having a wide network. I was one of the sympathizers when I was very young because I shared the enthusiasm that they built that state up. But then so many bad things happened afterward. There was a great response from Israel, as the EU did not want to renew the privileged trade agreement, a violent reaction even. There have also been major reactions every time large companies, i.e. multinationals, have withdrawn their activities because of popular pressure. That is one of the things that has led Israel to react. We also have it in our basis for the Western Sahara. I think this is something we should bring along with all the other elements.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602154042	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602154043	As I said, I agree that the most effective card, which I believe can be played, and which I also think is the easiest to bring together European countries, is a focus on illegal settlements and economic consequences in this regard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602154103	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602154104	I would like to remind you of South Africa. I know some people are too young to remember, and I'm burdened with remembering it. After all, the campaign that was being carried out at that time was about getting the big companies to boycott. Especially when the oil boycott got under way, the apartheid system began to react seriously. There are also some who have compared the struggle with then, even if you have to nuance it, because it is not entirely Bantustans that are. But it looks almost like Bantustans in the West Bank gradually, as it is divided up with roads, settlements and things and things. So I think we can learn from the initiatives from then on, and that is why I think we should continue.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602154144	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602154145	I don't mean to be so boring. But I now have the principle that we must be very careful to compare foreign policy situations from different parts of the world, because they are always different dynamics, different histories and so on. And there it is, you might say, a disadvantage to the track we are talking about here, that there are incredibly many Palestinians employed in the West Bank in Israeli jobs and so on. That's why you have to think about it. When I'm a little preoccupied with the construction I was talking about earlier, for example. with the Israeli banks, whose main business is this, it is because they are particularly targeted at new settlements, as far as I am aware. That is why I think it is quite an interesting place to take action without having any economic consequences for the Palestinians.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602154233	Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602154235	Thank you. We fully agree that economic sanctions are probably the most effective means. We have been able to look at the reactions of the Israelis on the few occasions when steps have been taken in this direction. But here too, sir, it bites itself a little bit in the tail. rapporteur. Because, as I understood the rapporteur's point of view, this is not something we are going on board unless we have the European Union with us. This is not something that the rapporteur believes Denmark itself should tackle in those areas where we have an opportunity to do so. Then we are back again, and that is why I cannot see all this talk about the European Union in any other way than that it is an excuse for not doing anything, and that in reality it is also an assurance against something being done, because there will always be some countries blocking what really hurts the Israelis. And when there is such opposition to recognising Palestine in a number of countries, it is because it also hurts. It's a little more than symbol politics. The Israelis do not like to be isolated in the international community. However, what I would like to ask the rapporteur is what are some clarifications to the government's mandate, and the rapporteur also suggested that we should try to negotiate. I'd like to hear more about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602154352	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602154353	Let me start by saying that, as far as economic measures are concerned, this is something that can only be done in the European Union, because Denmark has, of course, surrendered its commercial competence to the European Union. So Denmark cannot just start doing things itself. But even if we could, I would probably have the same point of view, namely that there must be some bigger economic muscles before it bats anything. There is one thing that I think it might be interesting to ask the government if they will be involved when it comes to recognition: when the government says they want to be a honest broker, that they would like, as we heard the Foreign Minister say, to try to play a role between the very different positions that are in the European Union, in order to move the process, I think it might be interesting to find out what these are for some things we can bring into play as Denmark considered. Because these are very difficult discussions in the European Union. There are very strong attitudes, and Denmark is not always equally clear. It has the advantage of being able to talk to others, but it also requires that we have something to talk to them about. And that is what I would like to discuss with the Danish Parliament's parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602154459	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602154501	I agree that because Denmark has left the competence to enter into trade agreements with the European Union, it has left us in a situation like this. Nevertheless, I think we can find some areas of economic and also great symbolic importance for Israel if Denmark dares to take some steps in relation to it. There are Danish companies that have been involved in trade with Israel. There's something about weapons production and stuff, so I think we could do that. But I didn't get much smarter. Well, I'm honestly asking about it, because if there's an outstretched hand and we can move on in a process and put some pressure on the government and maybe move things just a little bit, then I certainly won't shoot it down. But at least I think it's a little hovering. What is it that should replace this resolution and that would bring us in the direction on which we say we agree?
ParlaMint-DK_20160602154555	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602154559	Firstly, I think it would be good to give strong support from Denmark to the French process which is currently under way and to the conference which is actually coming. As we heard in the Foreign Minister's speech, we have not had the unequivocal support before. And in this context, it would also be interesting to go in and look at what the European Union can do, what role the European Union can play, both in terms of economic sticks, it can be said, but also in terms of economic carrots. We must remember that the preferential agreements, for example. has been able to become smaller and larger with Israel, according to the fact that the only thing that has worked has been to reduce them. But you could also use them as a carrot. The same applies, moreover, to the Palestinians and to their support.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602154643	Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602154646	Thank you. I would like to start by signing for a good and nuanced speech from the rapporteur. Now the rapporteur pointed out in the past that there has been consistency in the radical view all the way through, but I think it sounds like there is a little movement, at least in relation to exploring the possibility of putting increased pressure on Israel through the European Union. Because we fully agree that it is settlements and economic sanctions, in other words the fight against illegal settlements and the fight for economic sanctions, which are extremely important in this matter. But what I want to ask you is something else. The Radicals do not, of course, have any fundamental opposition to recognising a Palestinian state. It may well be that you have some considerations that it may not work and that it does not make much difference. But if we recognise the fundamental right to Palestine and the fact that we could recognise a Palestinian state, what is it that should stop us from doing so? In other words, when the Palestinians themselves express a desire for recognition of a Palestinian state, why are we holding back if that is the case that we believe they have a right of principle? If the only argument is that it might not help anything, why couldn't we just do it? That would certainly not do any harm, other than to strengthen the Palestinian cause.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602154801	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602154803	This is because I think it is a card that can be played in the negotiations that are going on and where the European Union is going to play and play. I hope that a central role will be played at the French conference. In short, I agree with the rapporteur that this is not a crazy card if that is what was in the rapporteur's question. It is not a trump card or an ace, and I do not think that recognition is so important. However, I think it is worth something, and in particular I believe that a joint European action on it makes the map more worthwhile. That's why I'm just thinking that if we drip it with 2-3 years apart, each one of us recognizes it, then it has no impact at all. However, I think that if the European Union can concentrate on using it as a strategic map in the negotiations that are about to take place now, it might have an effect both as a stick and as a carrot.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602154904	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602154906	But I just don't get it. If we recognise their right of principle and actually recognise that it could have a certain significance, is it not rather counterproductive simply to leave it to the European Union and, therefore, to the countries of the European Union? It is, of course, the case that there must be unanimity, and in this way we will also deposit our ability to recognise a Palestinian state with the most backward countries of the European Union. If we recognise that they have the right of principle and if we recognise that it has a meaning, would it not also have an impact that Denmark went out now and recognised and thus helped to put pressure on other EU countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20160602154945	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602154946	In fact, I believe that the opposite is true. I believe that if Denmark now recognises, we will not put any greater pressure on the other EU countries on the contrary, we would be indifferent, just as Sweden is completely indifferent now. That's where the disagreement is. If I believed that this would put pressure on the rest of the European Union, I would consider it. I therefore take the opposite view: that the fact that Denmark can offer its support, both one way around and the other, is what gives Denmark the greatest opportunity to influence the process in the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602155019	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Holger K. Nielsen from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602155040	I fully agree with the rapporteurs who have said that this is a tragic development in the Palestine conflict, that is to say that we are as far away from negotiations and solutions as we have not been for a long time and that there is radicalisation on both sides. Last time Liebermann became Israeli Defence Minister. If you have the idea that it can contribute to a peace process, you might want to think a little bit about it. We see in the Palestinians that young people are increasingly radicalised and attacking ordinary people, which of course is reflected in a corresponding radicalisation of many young Israelis; that is to say, they are moving further and further away from each other. On top of all this, the continuing Israeli settlements are helping to make it increasingly difficult to see a solution which must, of course, include a coherent Palestinian state if there is to be a two-state solution. In other words, things are going very, very bad. On top of that, there are two negotiating parties which, in their own way, function so reasonably dysfunctional. In Israel there is a Netanyahu government that is led by a sacred nationalist fire, as I said before: most recently with Liebermann as Secretary of Defense, who is based on the settlers and does not really want a Palestinian state. What they are really going to come up with is probably a system like that in South Africa at the time, with some Palestinian Bantustans in a real Israeli apartheid regime. At least that is how it will develop if nothing happens. On the other hand, the situation is very bad for the Palestinians. Abbas is old; the old leaders have many dead bodies in the cargo and find it difficult to get authority from the people; Hamas, who does not have a solution to anything nor has the Palestinians lost wind in the sails. In other words, there are two completely dysfunctional parties that face each other and must try to negotiate. In this situation, the Palestinians have then asked the outside world to be recognised as a state. Is it not right that a Palestinian state should be recognised? It is, of course. And all those formalistic arguments I don't give much for. When Israel was recognised in 1948, there was no coherent area with clear borders, and there are several examples of the outside world going in and recognizing states in a process against something; it was also done in Kosovo, so it is not unknown. And that is why it is a political question whether you want to go in and then give it support to the Palestinians and put that pressure on Israel. Many say that this is not a solution. No, of course it is not, and of course it was a huge advantage if the whole of the European Union were to be involved in such a policy. We fully support this. And, of course, that's right. Martin Lidegaard said that financial measures probably have a greater impact, yes, yes. But that doesn't rule out this action. That's why I think it's kind of crucial whether you're ready for it. And we must actually be clear that there is a discussion on this in other European countries. There are parliaments that have adopted recognition. It is not valid under international law, as when a government does, it is clear, but there is a political will in it. The French initiative is also tied to the fact that this can be the result. So somewhere I think you get too backward-looking when you completely reject this, that it doesn't help anything, that it's other things that need to be done, and I don't know what. I think it is a small contribution that could be made. Some will call it symbolic, perhaps, but nevertheless a small contribution that could be made to one party getting a little more momentum in the negotiations and gaining a little more legitimacy, a little more authority. Above all, there is general justice in the fact that the Palestinians too have the right to a state, as others do.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602155545	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then we shall move on to the next rapporteur, who will then be the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr von der Vring. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602155612	Thank you. I thought the Conservatives would come up here, but I see that Mr. Naser Khader is not present in the Chamber. I would say that I know that today's debate has been followed with great interest in the Danish country, in Europe and around the world, and it has undoubtedly also been followed in Israel and in Palestine, because today's debate on the recognition of Palestine as a state is important. This morning, like most other members of the Folketing, I was met by Danish-Palestinian Bilal and Danish-Israeli Barrit, who distributed olive branches on Christiansborg's stairs. That was a nice mark of what this debate is actually about. It is about creating peace for Palestinians and Israelis. It is about creating the possibility of an independent Palestine, which can lie free alongside an independent Israel. It is about supporting those forces that want a peaceful solution to decades of bloody conflict. 46,425 Danes have signed an invitation to us here in the Danish Parliament to adopt a proposal for a Danish recognition of Palestine as a state. Today, five of the parties of the Folketing have put themselves behind the proposal, and I am sure that in time more parties will follow. For we support a two-state solution, we must of course also support the recognition of both states. More than 136 countries have already recognised Palestine. So it is not a question of the Danish side alone. It is a question of Denmark's having to stop lagging behind. Our neighbours in Sweden have recognised Palestine, although Sweden is a member of the European Union, and of course Denmark can do the same. It is a question of political will. And, frankly, there is a need for political will, because the reality is that the clock is ticking. The clock is ticking as I stand here talking. The Israeli settlements are expanding daily. I saw it with my own eyes when I visited the West Bank, which is occupied, together with the Parliament's Foreign Policy Name earlier this year. The Israeli Government supports the expansion of settlements, provides the associated infrastructure, provides subsidies and helps to break international law on a daily basis and undermine the prospects for a viable Palestinian state. The Israeli Government's blockade of Gaza is creating a humanitarian crisis. The blockade prevents reconstruction, yes, the blockade creates a possible breeding ground for another bloody war, which will cost the lives of both Israelis and Palestinians alike. And, frankly, time and again we find ourselves laughing at our own money from the Danish side and from the European Union when, for example, the Israeli Government destroys buildings when the Israeli Government destroys installations in the occupied West Bank, which are built with Danish and European tax dollars. Honestly, this arrogance should have consequences. When Russia occupied Crimea two years ago, the reaction here from the Folketing and from the EU was clear: The occupation of Crimea was a violation of international laws and was met with targeted sanctions. Companies operating in the occupied territories have been subject to sanctions. The arms trade with Russia has been stopped. When it comes to the Israeli occupation of Palestine, action is lacking. When it comes to Israel's breach of international law, yes, Denmark unfortunately fails, and unfortunately the European Union also fails. Some have today tried to turn this debate into a popularity contest for the Palestinian Government, but that is not what this debate is about. This debate is not a question of whether you like the current Israeli or Palestinian Government, nor is it a question of whether you can subscribe to one story or another. This debate is about finding a peaceful solution that is in line with the clear decisions of the United Nations, following a decades-long and bloody conflict. And I have no doubt that the Israeli Government is following this debate with great interest. For the reality is that Israel is extremely vulnerable to pressure from Europe. 34 per cent Israeli exports go to the EU. If the EU's favourable trade agreement with Israel is stopped, which presupposes the Israeli Government's respect for fundamental human rights, which the Israeli Government daily violates, the Israeli economy will simply collapse. I am therefore also pleased that today's debate, among other things, is taking place. on behalf of the Radicals. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Radicals have been opened up so that we can continue to work on this issue and see that it must have economic consequences when Israel makes illegal settlements when Israel violates international law. And I look forward to working with the Radicals and with a large number of other parties, I am quite sure about this forward-looking. The reality is that, despite massive financial injections from the United States, the Israeli Government will simply not be able to maintain the expensive occupation and settlement policy. Danish recognition of Palestine will help to put pressure on the Israeli Government. Independent Danish recognition will not stand in the way of getting the EU to follow suit. On the contrary, of course, we have our sovereign right here in the Folketing to conduct a Danish foreign policy. When the proposal for recognition was discussed four years ago, the excuse on the part of a number of parties was that we should wait for recognition through the European Union. Two years ago, when the proposal for recognition is again being discussed, the excuse of a number of parties was that we should wait for recognition through the European Union. But honestly, how long do we have to wait? The Foreign Minister has today announced that the government will actively support the French initiative. I think that is a good thing. This is a positive result of today's debate, which I sign for. Unfortunately, however, we have a situation where we cannot be sure that the French initiative will succeed, and everything indicates that the French initiative will not succeed, France and a number of other EU countries will independently go out and recognise Palestine. And the question is, should Denmark not be involved when this happens, because if Denmark is not going to recognise it now, should Denmark not be part of the reason that will make it independent later? And frankly, should we just let the most backwards in the EU circle dictate our foreign policy in this very important area? Of course we shouldn't. I would at least call on the parties to consider agreeing during the committee procedure that if the French initiative does not succeed, Denmark will be part of the circle of countries that recognise Palestine. I think you should consider it and I look forward to the debates in committee. Personally and on behalf of the Enhedslisten, I must say that of course we find it deeply tragic that today we cannot gather a broad majority in this Parliament to recognise Palestine as an independent state. Not least, I think it is a pity that we have a situation where there is broad support for a two-state solution and when there is broad support for a free and viable Palestinian state. Well, then, let us recognize Palestine, just as we recognize Israel. However, I would also like to say clearly to all those who follow the debate, to all the parties of the Folketing, to the Israeli Government, to the Palestinian Government, to the Israeli people and to the Palestinian people, that we will, of course, continue to fight for Denmark to recognise Palestine one day and for there to come the day when there is a majority here in the Folketing for recognition. That day is not today, but I am sure that all the parties behind the proposal and the tens of thousands of Danes who have signed the invitation to the Danish Parliament to recognise it will continue. We will continue to work for peace and we will continue to work for a free and viable Palestine and for peace in the Middle East.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602160537	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602160542	Thank you. It was a speech in which little was said about what might be done wrong on the Palestinian side. Does the rapporteur think that it is entirely legitimate for terrorists to make bus bombs directed directly at civilians in Israel? Does the rapporteur think that it is entirely legitimate for missiles to be sent over civilian Israeli territories and go for civilian targets? And the rapporteur thinks it is perfectly legitimate that there should also be these knife attacks, where out of the blue you suddenly pull a knife and, among other things, pull a knife. Going after civilians on Israeli territory? That's where I think the Enhedslisten goes all wrong in the city, that is, when you quite flagrantly choose side in this conflict and only think that Israel is the villain. I clearly recognise that Israel is doing many things wrong. At the same time, however, I also believe that the Palestinians are doing many things wrong and we need to be able to see it from both sides.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602160645	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602160647	Thank you. Well, Enhedslisten is clearly opposed to terror. I take a clear stand against and condemn attacks on all civilians, whether they are carried out by Palestinians or Israeli settlers. And the reality is, unfortunately, that we have a situation where both settlers and Israeli soldiers are attacking, and there are attacks on innocent civilians by the Palestinians as well. This must, of course, be clearly condemned and those responsible for it must be prosecuted. What we are seeing right now is that often it happens that Palestinians are shot without trial and thus, in some cases, executed without being clearly responsible for an attack. In the meantime, unfortunately, we see Israeli soldiers and settlers freeing themselves. On the Danish side we have to work for it we have actually also made a decision that everyone who commits violations is prosecuted, and we are in the Enhedslisten on the goal for that. Anyone who commits attacks and violations of human rights must, of course, be prosecuted and punished.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602160745	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602160746	I am glad that it came in the answer when it could not come in the speech • the slightly more balanced approach to the matter which I think it is important that you have. But then let me ask the question I have asked of almost all the members of the Enhedslisten who have asked me today: How many centimeters closer to a peaceful two-state solution will we come if Denmark went alone and made this solo announcement?
ParlaMint-DK_20160602160812	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602160813	I'm really glad to hear that Mr. Knox... Michael Aastrup Jensen asks the question. I have been counting on this during the debate, and we cannot count it in centimeters. We can count it for miles. It is 3,195 km: it is the distance from Copenhagen to East Jerusalem, the city that will become the capital of a future free Palestinian state. So that's the answer: 3,195 kilometers.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602160837	The next question is Mr. Nick Hækkerup, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602160840	I would like to thank the rapporteur for also condemning the Palestinian attacks. Could it then be imagined that the rapporteur's line of thought would also lead to the same conclusion, in terms of how we should react to the important things that are criticizing Israel for what the rapporteur himself said in his speech before?
ParlaMint-DK_20160602160906	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602160911	We must criticise all violations of human rights, whoever is doing them. We must criticise all attacks on civilians, whoever is carrying them out. It was also the content of the latest proposal for adoption that was actually adopted here, in other words, that everyone should be prosecuted. Unfortunately, we have a situation where that does not happen. settlers who have committed acts of violence against the Palestinians will not be prosecuted; Israeli soldiers who shoot and execute innocent Palestinians will not be prosecuted. That is why, of course, we have a problem. I think it is important to make it clear that we must treat everyone equally; we must be vigilant about human rights. But we also have to recognise that Israel is the occupying power here, and that is why international pressure must be put on them. It's not just something I'm talking about. This is also something that the UN has repeatedly stated in its resolutions: the Israeli settlement policy, the Israeli occupation, must cease so that a peaceful solution can be found with a viable Palestinian state.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602161013	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602161014	So in the talk of what sanctions it was the rapporteur himself who proposed what would be relevant to Israel, there should also be a talk about what sanctions are relevant to the Palestinians.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602161026	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602161027	I think it is important to remember what the reality is. The reality is that Israel is breaking the agreements made under the Oslo Agreement. For example, they go into the A-areas and arrest Palestinians bypassing the Palestinian authorities. There is a security cooperation in which, in President Abbas' own words, 400 attacks on Israel have been stopped. But the problem is that Israeli soldiers are passive when settlers attack the other way. That is what undermines the Palestinian authorities; it is what undermines the forces that work for peace. Those are the forces that say, "Wouldn't you acknowledge us?" That would give us a strengthened platform. That is what we are proposing here today. I look forward to the day when the Socialists support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602161113	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602161131	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Friday 3 June 2016. First of all, we need a explanatory statement and it gives the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602161208	Thank you, President. Over the past few years, there has been a sharp increase in the use of community services. This is among other things. for crimes such as violence, gross violence and sexual crimes. There is no doubt that the increase seen can be traced back to the changes made by the previous government back in 2015. At the time we warned in the Danish People's Party with other bourgeois parties about the consequences this change could have. We now see them rolled out on a full scale, it must be said; it has been quite an explosion it has been about. That is why we have called for this question debate; that is why we have asked the questions we have asked, because we really think it is quite relevant that we are discussing how to punish, what kind of punishment we are using. That is why, of course, I am very much looking forward to having the Minister's answer to the question put, but also, of course, that the rapporteurs of the various parties mark the position of the parties. There should be no doubt that, on the part of the Danish People's Party, we would like, in these cases of serious violence and sexual crimes, to be taken into the other hand. We are punishing far too little and, if it were up to us, we would have to punish much harder in the future. And that is the starting point from which we have called for the question debate, and I look forward to hearing the speeches made by the rapporteurs and the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602161335	Thank you to the rapporteur for the questions. And then I give the floor to the Minister of Justice for an answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602161348	Thank you. It is my clear objective and that of the government to ensure respect and justice. This means that crime is being severely beaten, that the punishment must be seen as a punishment and that the punishment must be matched by the crime committed. Punishment, however, can take several forms, and not all cases are so serious that the penalty always has to be a prison sentence. Social service is also a punishment, and sometimes community service can be the most appropriate punishment. This can be seen when you compare criminals who receive a conditional sentence with community service terms with criminals who receive unconditional prison sentences. Studies show that the risk of falling back to new crime, the so-called relapse, is significantly lower among those receiving community service. The lower relapse risk is also apparent long after the punishment has passed. That is why the government also generally supports the application of punishment as a community service. However, this needs to be done in the right context. The consideration of the specific victim, of the general sense of justice, of justice must not speak against it. That is why the Left voted against the amendment to the law made by the SR government with Mette Frederiksen as Minister of Justice in 2015. The change ended with the former area of caution. This means that, as a starting point, the nature of crime should no longer be taken into account as such when assessing whether a perpetrator should be sentenced to a conditional sentence with conditions of community service. In addition, when the accused person has been assessed as suitable for community service, the choice between community service and unconditional prison must be determined first and foremost on the basis of an overall assessment of the gravity of the crime, on the one hand, and the extent and seriousness of the accused's possible past crimes, on the other. So community service can now be applied to a wider range of forms of crime. This is particularly true in the case of first-time offences which do not have the character of organised or gang-related crime. In addition, the 2015 amendment, as a counterpart to the extension of the use of community services, led to the introduction of tougher sanctions for those who commit new crimes during the probationary period. For persons sentenced to more than 3 months in prison, a new probationary crime triggers a residual sentence equivalent to one third of the conditional prison sentence, even if the community service has been carried out. Before the amendment of the law, there would be no residual penalty that could be triggered if the community service had been performed. The cash course, of course, supports the government. However, we remain sceptical about the extension of the use of community services that was carried out. It is worrying for me to be able to read in the media that the use of community service should have increased in cases of serious violence and sexual crimes. It is my view that, before we draw final conclusions, we need to clarify the use of community service by the courts. If you look at the number of cases where the perpetrator is sentenced to community service over a long period of time, the figures are not quite as clear. But that's why I'm also looking forward to the Attorney General in the autumn and autumn being And let me be blunt: If the Attorney General's statement shows that community service is used to a greater extent than intended, the government will act on it, and we hope to find a majority in Parliament for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602161808	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. We shall now proceed to the debate itself, and the first rapporteur is the rapporteur for the questions put to us, Mr President. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602161834	In recent years, there has been a sharp increase in the number of convicted people for violence, serious violence and sexual crimes committed in the community rather than being sent to prison or otherwise punished, a development which we in the Danish People's Party cannot at all support or for that matter understand. On the contrary, we believe that a different approach must be taken with greater consistency in relation to such crimes, and here the Danish People's Party cannot support the fact that serious violence or sexual crimes trigger community service. The slide of triggering community service for these crimes must be stopped, a slippery path that has been going on in the past while the number of sexual offenders serving in community service has increased by about 30%. There has been almost a doubling of the violence. Furthermore, Jyllands-Posten could report examples where at least one person convicted of possession and distribution of child pornography material has been sentenced to community service. I cannot help thinking about what has gone wrong, given that crimes such as these can mean that violations of children who may be video-recorded can subsequently spread around all kinds of networks forever. What are some consequences such violations may have for the victims who are left behind? To put it bluntly, it is absolutely grotesque that people convicted of such serious forms of crime are not punished much harder than is the case today or, for that matter, that the punishment for such sex crimes can be dealt with by community service. It is simply unfair and it is inadequate and it is an insult to the victims who are left behind. These are vile crimes against which the Danish People's Party demands more serious and harder consequences. I read that the chairman of the Danish women's crisis centres in connection with the disclosure of these cases has said: 'The women we meet at the centres will think, may it be true that he has beaten me so violently, and then he gets to sweep streets for 3 months', or what community service can now go out on the island, that's all it cost? ▪ You can also listen to the National Association Help Victims of Violence if Vice-President has said: "Victims of violence typically want the punishment to match what they have been subjected to. They will feel a bit like a mockery if the perpetrator who knocked them down is convicted, but the only thing he or she gets as a consequence is a few hours of community service. ▪ The National Association of Tor, working with late followers of sexual abuse, expresses completely the same views. In the Danish People's Party we believe that society owes victims and society in general that perpetrators are met with clear and firm consequences. We have a duty to give justice to the victims in particular and to ensure that we know that crime does not pay and that those who require treatment get it. This has been so neglected by the previous political majority, and I think we should do something about it. The development of a number of people sentenced to community service goes the wrong way and stems from the change in the rules of the previous government in this area, where a single left-wing last year decided that perpetrators and sex offenders should be punished less. We have the very opposite wish, precisely that these criminals should meet with more severe consequences. This is not just about the perpetrator, but also about the victims' sense of justice, which we who are here should also think about. Who would feel reasonable as a victim that while you go on sick leave and go to a psychologist because of an attack, you can meet a whistling perpetrator who can easily walk around as if nothing has happened just because he is doing his community service. I hope that by a different majority we can have a different and fairer policy. When the law was amended back in 2015, the Danish People's Party, the Left and the Conservatives voted against these changes and easings. It is my hope and expectation that the government will, of course, come up with proposals in this area, and I would like to do so in the course of the autumn, so that we can bring about real justice and fairness and clear consequences in this area as soon as possible. On behalf of the Danish People's Party, the Left, the Conservative and Liberal Alliance, I shall make the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the rules on community service were extended in 2015. The Danish Parliament also notes that the question of the application of conditional convictions with terms of community service has been raised politically as well as in public opinion, and that this autumn the Attorney General will make a statement on the use of conditional sentences with terms of community service. The Minister of Justice will then return to the Folketing. The Folketing declares that gross violence and serious sexual crimes are so serious crimes that those cases should be punished with unconditional imprisonment. The Folketing also states that a tough course must be taken against those who commit new crimes during the probationary period, thereby proving that they are unable to make use of the opportunity offered by a conditional judgment on terms of community service. • V 82). I should also like to thank you for the floor and say that I am very much looking forward to following the subsequent debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602162415	Thank you. The proposal for adoption will then be included in the further debate. There is a brief comment from Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602162426	We may not agree on why we punish, whether it is primarily for justice alone or whether it is also about criminals not having to commit crime again. However, I would like to ask the rapporteur because he concludes in his rapporteur's speech that there may be people who have been punished for violations of children who have made video recordings that have been distributed online. And the rapporteur goes on to conclude that there may be perpetrators who have beaten women over and over again. Is this something the rapporteur knows, or is it something the rapporteur is guessing, that those who have received community service have committed wrongdoing? My second question is whether the rapporteur knows whether these are people who had otherwise been subject to conditional sentences, that is to say who would not otherwise have gone to prison. You have to have an unconditional penalty for that. Is this something the rapporteur knows since he can conclude that otherwise they would have been in prison?
ParlaMint-DK_20160602162533	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602162534	In other words, the first question to which the questioner refers is a very specific one, which Jyllands-Posten has written about on 5 April. The questioner should remember it, for the questioner himself expressed himself in the article. It is a specific matter that has been brought in, where it has been about the storage and distribution of child pornography material.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602162557	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602162558	The rapporteur does not answer my question. Is it something that would otherwise have given an unconditional penalty, or is it something that would have given a conditional penalty, that is to say, where the person who received the sentence would not have gone to prison anyway? I would like to ask the rapporteur to deal with this. Is that something he knows, or is it something he is standing on the platform and claiming, because it is quite appropriate at the heart of this debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602162618	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602162620	Dear Mrs Trine Bramsen, there has been a 30% increase when it comes to convictions with community services for sexual crimes. There has almost been a doubling when it comes to the sentences relating to gross violence. I do not think it is a coincidence that there has been an explosion in this area since the left-wing adopted these very, very clear rules. I can only say that my party has an ambition to go in the opposite direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602162648	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Trine Bramsen as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602162706	Crime in Denmark has in recent years fallen in the vast majority of areas. This is welcome, because it means that fewer Danes end up as victims of the totally unacceptable actions of criminals. We Social Democrats are concerned about preventing crime. The fewer those who commit crime, the fewer are victims, and we are very concerned that those who violate the law will be punished to ensure that the crime does not happen again. But why are we punishing? Yes, punishment is about justice. It is about the consequence of breaking the law. But we must never, never, punish alone for the sake of punishment. On the other hand, the aim must be to ensure that the crime is not committed again or otherwise repeated, i.e. that the criminal does not end up becoming even more criminal. This was precisely the reason why, in 2014, we proposed a change in the law on community service. Both the Ministry of Justice's research unit and the Criminal Code Council had clearly pointed out that community service makes criminals less criminals. Enlargement allowed for the use of community services as an alternative to unconditional imprisonment in the case of first-time violations which were not organised or gang-related crimes. At the same time, in 2014, we amended the law for the slightly longer sentences of more than 3 months in prison with a scheme to trigger a residual sentence equivalent to one third of the conditional prison sentence once the community service has been carried out. This means, therefore, that new crime in the probationary period is being punished more severely than in the past. The amendment also meant that up to one third of the community service, according to the regulations of the Department of Criminal Welfare, could consist of participation in special treatment or training programmes. It is therefore in the spirit that we now see that community service is being used, and that is why there has been an increase in use. I understand that there are parties that want the law amended on the basis of an article in the Jyllands-Posten in April about precisely the increase in the use of community service. And, yes, it is true that there has been an increase. We have wanted more people to get out of crime and not sit in prisons and become even more criminals, as all research shows. That is why I would like to call on you to stop just once and look at the figures here, to look at the figures more closely. When we have such solid evidence that community service means that more people are leaving crime, then I would just like to appeal that it is not simply changed per year. reflex to get the biggest headline in a newspaper. We, as politicians, must pursue justice without any doubt about it, but we must never become blind to what works. Then I would like to pay tribute to the Minister for Justice, because I actually believe that it is quite right for the Minister for Justice to say that we need to have the Attorney-General's assessment of whether the law we adopted in 2014-15 is being applied as intended. Because it is clear that the law is not being used as intended, so there are some criminals whom it was not intended at that time to have community service, and indeed the case is quite different. Then it has to be corrected. But to begin per year. We believe that a great mistake is being made by the Social Democrats in reflexing to change an instrument, a form of punishment which clearly shows that more people are coming out of crime and that fewer people are starting a criminal career. On behalf of the Social Democrats, the SF, the Alternative and the Enhedslisten, I would like to read out the following proposals for adoption: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that both the Criminal Code Council and the Ministry of Justice's Research Unit in 2014 concluded that the risk of relapse to crime is significantly lower among persons sentenced to a conditional sentence with terms of community service compared to those sentenced to an unconditional sentence of liberty. Against this background, it was agreed by law to extend the use of community services to a broader field of forms of crime, but still only by shorter sentences. Community service is used in particular for first-time offences which do not have the character of organised or gang-related crime. Parliament wants to avoid criminals falling back into new crime, so community service must remain an alternative to prison time. V 83)
ParlaMint-DK_20160602163204	Thank you. The proposal for adoption will then be included in the further debate. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602163214	Thank you. I would just like to ask the rapporteur if it does not make an impression when organisations come forward and say that when a perpetrator, for example, comes forward. has beaten or beaten or otherwise destroyed a victim, has frightened a victim, has injured another person, so punishment also means something in relation to the victims, and that it is also a form of justice that society must exercise. Does it not impress the rapporteur, since the rapporteur does not want to change this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160602163247	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602163247-2	There is no doubt that punishment is about justice, but punishment is also about criminals not continuing the criminal course but getting out of crime as soon as possible. And I believe that instead of concluding on a simple, questionable example, which we do not know at all about the scope of the judgment, we do not know the content of the judgment; we have not been sitting in the courtroom; we should make decisions on the basis of the solid research that lies in this area. And it is not just individuals who have claimed that community service is good. It is therefore solid research in this area that shows that community service causes criminals to become less criminals, that they do not continue their criminal career and that in every way it has a positive effect on crime in our societies.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602163338	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602163340	It is good, then, that no one wants to legislate on a case-by-case basis, but can relate to the general increase that has taken place and has nothing to do with a single matter. It is therefore based on a number of cases. What I would like to hear from the rapporteur in the last round is: is it inconceivable that the Socialists will be involved in looking at the penalties for this kind of crime, for example? violence?
ParlaMint-DK_20160602163404	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602163405	Well, of course there has been an increase, because that has been the political intention, because community service works, so we get more out of crime. And I must also say that community service as an alternative to a conditional prison sentence, in which there was no prison, must be preferred. I would rather be in community service than go into a criminal environment and not be in prison, and that is what would have been the case in most of these cases. That is what DF's rapporteur would not reply to before. But as I said just now, we are interested in looking at it if the law is not applied as intended, because then it is a mistake. But the Minister for Justice has just stated that he wants to look into it and that the Attorney General should look into it. For it is clear that when we adopt legislation in the Folketing, that legislation must then be applied as intended.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602163459	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602163501	I just need to hear the Social Democrats speak warmly for community service, and we in the Left believe that there can be a great many good reasons why there is a limit to what community service should be used for. Because when you hear Mrs Trine Bramssen, it sounds like you can use community service for all kinds of crimes. Does the Socialist Group believe that such a crime as this one is a crime? Arson, setting fire to an apartment that burns completely out consciously, which revenge must also be punishable by community service? What about murder? Should community service be good enough for that? What about smuggling large amounts of drugs? Should community service be used as a punishment for that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160602163554	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602163555	No, what is very clear in the law is that there are still shorter sentences and that one must not be part of organised criminal environments. But I think it would be wrong for me to stand here and start judging. I'm not a judge, I'm a legislator. The judgments are what the courts decide, and so it will be impossible for me to go into specific cases where there may be a number of factors involved. However, it is very clearly described in the legislation what kind of convictions it is that can provide community service. And it is clear that if practice differs from what was originally envisaged in the legislation, that is certainly something we must look at. But it is clearly described in the law what kind of convictions you can get community service in relation to. It certainly cannot be used in the very, very rough cases with very, very long sentences, of course not.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602163652	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602163654	Well, I didn't ask for any specific cases. I ask whether the Socialists believe that community service can be used, for example, in murder. I must almost understand that it cannot be carried out or by arson, and I must almost understand that it cannot do so. Or how should I understand the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20160602163710	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602163712	But there is a limit to the length of the prison sentence that has been sentenced. That's what's the limit. And so there is still no question of the shorter sentences, conditional as unconditional. That is the starting point. And I cannot stand here from the platform and judge whether it is arson that would have given 4 years in prison, because in that case you cannot get community service. But if it is a matter of a minimum penalty and you have not been punished in the past, we should remember that this is primarily a first case, yes, then you will be able to receive community service.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602163747	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602163806	What did I tell you? See, the advantage of sitting in the Folketing is that you can find out, because you can go into the thick books and see what you have said on a subject before. And I was rapporteur when the previous government adopted L 50, as the draft law called, on the extension of community service. At the time, I said, and we still think so: 'In the Left, we believe that crime and punishment belong together. There is a strong signal in that, and we must stick to it. But punishment doesn't have to be prison. The use of community services instead of prison sentences can in many cases be a good alternative. As a starting point, we believe that community service can be used, but there must be a connection with the sense of justice. I also said at the time: 'Lefts, however, cannot accept further reductions in violence. Already today, then, the courts can judge community service by simple violence, but this presupposes that the perpetrator is young or that the violence is due to previous disagreements. We believe that the limit has been drawn in the right place. At the same time, we also had a debate on the relationship of exchange, that is, how many hours of community service were to be exchanged for sentences of liberty, and I ended my speech at that time by saying: 'So if the government insists that 11⁄2 years of imprisonment for totally unprovoked violence committed by an adult must be able to be dealt with by 300 hours of community service, then it will be without the support of the Left, and my guess is that it will be without the people. Oh, look, I'm sorry. I was right. The government passed its bill. However, we made it a nice distance along the way. In fact, during the negotiations, it was possible to agree that the number of hours should be increased, and the Left was also very pleased that there should be a legal penalty, that is to say, that you should go to jail if you commit new crime during the trial period. So we came a long way along the way. However, with regard to violence, the government at that time would not give in but insisted that perpetrators should also be included in community service to an even greater extent than was already the case. Now we have seen some preliminary results of the government's bill from then on. In an article from Jyllands-Posten, which I think several of us have read, one can see that in what Jyllands-Posten calls the so-called serious violence cases, where it is more than a fistfistfight on a pub, there has been almost a doubling in the use of community service, from 59 cases to 114 cases. And the article continued that also several sexual offenders were punished with community service in 2015 compared to the year before. Here there had been an increase of just under a third. One example is given: a man sentenced in November to community service for the possession and distribution of child pornography. It must then be said that the verdict is, however, appealed by the prosecution. The Supreme Court recently ruled on an arson case. That is why I asked questions about arson to the Socialist rapporteur. This was a case in which the Court had found it proved that in the afternoon the defendants had entered the injured party's apartment, even though he was not at home, had taken his dog and his computer, and that later that evening they had returned and had set fire, thereby burning the apartment out. So it was an arson case where an apartment simply burns down. It was done with community service, and the Supreme Court refers directly to the relaxations made by the former government. We believe that the line should have been drawn where the Left felt that the line should be drawn, and we believe that there is already evidence that community service is being used too much and used in cases where it violates the sense of justice. Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen read out some quotes from an article that I had also found, so I shall now spare the House the opportunity to have it repeated. But so, both the Danish Women's Society, the Association Help Victims of Violence and the National Association Tor, who works with late followers after sexual abuse, says that in cases of serious violence and sexual crimes as a victim, it is offensive that the convicted person can escape with community service. So we are satisfied that the Attorney General gets a look at the area and has an investigation done, so that it is not just based on individual cases and an article in Jyllands-Posten, however good it may be, but that we get an account of when community service is being used: Have we drawn the line in the right place? I think I can tell you now that, in the view of the Left, the line has hardly been drawn in the right place and that we are going to change some things. It is a pity that the then government would not meet the Left, because then we would have had a long-lasting solution. Now the Left will have to go in and clean up, so that, at least as a starting point, we get serious violence and sexual crimes away from the area of community service. I would also like to thank the Danish People's Party for having raised this important debate. It is a bit difficult to do it yourself when you belong to the party that is the government, so it is nice that good friends can draw attention to a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602164333	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur should have been the Enhedslisten. I do not see the rapporteur present. That is why we move on to the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, Mr President. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602164352	What did Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen? Yes, he said about the same thing as Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll. That is why we are in much the same situation, namely that I, like Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen can come back to my speech from when we last discussed the proposal and tell you that I said at the time that if the Liberal Alliance could decide, we would say that it should be primarily in the case of first-time violations and, above all, in the case of mild cases, the use of community service. When you look at the table and how far it goes up, how hard the penalties can be, and at the same time you talk about community service, you can be a little worried about it at the top of it, if I may say so. Is it really fair to use community service there? When I said that, it was because we're just in maybe the grey zone area, compared to where the line should be drawn. In the Liberal Alliance, we are great supporters of community service. We are very much in favour of alternative punishments. This is particularly true in two cases: first-time infringements and mild offences. On the other hand, in the Liberal Alliance, we believe that violence, rape, threats and child abuse must be punished more severely than it is today, even if the government has repaired some of the areas. You have to go back to why we are really punishing. We are talking a lot about this, and there has already been discussion of this between some of the rapporteurs. You can punish because of discouragement, so that people refrain from committing a crime. You can punish for ensuring that people do not repeat their crime; they learn something. You can have a punishment that works against repetition. However, we are also punishing for ensuring that civil society does not carry out vigilante action. We are punishing on behalf of civil society. We have, as it were, collectiveised or nationalised, or whatever to call it, the punishment. In any case, we have monopolized it into state power. I think that's wise. However, we also need to bear in mind that there must be a level of punishment consistent with the penalties that the victims expect there to be. That is why we think it is good that we should now look into this matter. Thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising the debate. We think it is a good thing that the Attorney General should make the statement in the autumn, as the Minister for Justice so clearly noted. Anyone who knows the Liberal Alliance or has just followed yesterday's debate will know that we have a special preference for things to happen in the autumn. So we are glad that this is where it happens, because something is happening in Danish politics. The Minister of Justice will return to the Folketing and we say today clearly and unequivocally that we do not want serious violence and serious sex crimes to end with anything other than prison. So I really think that we can find a very balanced answer in relation to this. I hope that because we can find a solution because I think that we have a broad consensus that community service can be good where it is useful where it makes a difference and where there is no crime that has such a character that it would be an insult to the victim that community service is used instead of punishment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602164822	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602164826	I would like to hear from the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur whether he can make me a little wiser on the issue that Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen couldn't answer. There are the categories that Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll mentions, for example, gross violence and sexual crimes. By Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, what specific wrongs does it conceal? Or is it merely guessing that it may be repeated assaults on women, for example, as Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen mentioned in his speech?
ParlaMint-DK_20160602164905	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602164906	Now we are in the classical discipline of using the unbiased rapporteur on the platform as a media for a debate between two other members of parliament. I have always refused to participate in this, and I will do so today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602164923	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602164924	Then I'd like to ask Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll of the Liberal Alliance, if he knows what the categories, such as Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll himself mentions he will not help provide community service for, concrete cover-up.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602164941	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602164942	But it has nothing to do with categories. It has something to do with the fact that there's been some uncertainty about this. That's why Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen called for this inquiry debate. That is why we are pleased that this autumn the Attorney General will make a statement on the use of community services. And when it is there, the Folketing can work out how to correct the cut. It may be that Mrs Trine Bramssen will be happy and will find that everything is in the best order. It may be that Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen is disappointed and finds out that is not the case. But I think we'll all be happy when we figure out how to make a solution where the cut is where we are, as I hear the debate, all agree that it should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602165037	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602165102	Thank you for the floor. This question debate is about community service as a sanction in cases of serious violence and sexual crimes. It is the Danish People's Party that has called it, and I thank you for the opportunity to debate it here from the platform. I have such a desire to raise it a little, so I would like to start by saying that if we really look at how to punish criminals around the world, we see that there are many different ways of punishing them. There are also different purposes for punishment. This question debate really makes me want to give more general thought to what punishment is and should be in today's Denmark. You can ask yourself two questions: Why are we punishing Denmark, and does it work to impose more severe penalties? The current penal code, as we know it, has been in force for no less than 75 years. It has been amended and adjusted numerous times, but the basis that we actually laid in 1930 still exists. And it was quite landmark in its time. The idea of punishing for revenge was replaced by an ideal of using prison time to rehabilitate the inmate. Since then, we have strengthened this view when universal human rights were adopted as one of many resolutions designed to put an effective end to what humanity has been through, among other things. World War II. The concept of legal awareness came to play an important role, and if that consciousness was violated, it usually meant that the authorities had gone too far in their treatment of the individual, and therefore there was also talk of legal protection. If you look at how we use the words today, you see that the dominant word is another. Now it is always the sense of justice to which we appeal. But in it there is something quite different from both legal awareness and legal protection. A little brutal, it can be said, is about the people and society's need for revenge when we talk about the sense of justice. Revenge in particular has also historically been the decisive driving force behind the criminal laws of changing times. At the same time, there have also been ideas that severe penalties could act as a deterrent and thus preventative. Today, however, we know that harsher penalties do not work. There is no effect on the risk of new crime when politicians impose stricter penalties. It is concluded, inter alia, that: by the Ministry of Justice's Research Office in a 2015 report which summarises the results of the latest international research in this field. Alternative forms of punishment are much more effective when it comes to prevention and rehabilitation. What we are debating today is community service, which is an example of such an alternative form of punishment. In Denmark, the community service was introduced into the criminal code in 1992 after years of attempts. Social service is a punishment which is given as a substitute for the traditional prison sentence and which means that the sentenced person must perform socially unpaid work in his spare time for a number of hours. The philosophy behind it is that the sentenced person pays back to society, as it were, and that it is more constructive for society that the sentenced person does a job rather than being in prison, while at the same time allowing the punished person to remain more part of society. In June 2014, the Ministry of Justice published a major study on the impact of community service. The study is based on 1,610 persons assessed as suitable for community service. The large data base makes the study more valid statistically than previous studies on community service. The conclusion of this study clearly showed that people who have been found suitable for community service and who are subjected to such a sanction rather than an unconditional penalty are less likely to commit new crime. The study shows that the use of community services reduces the risk of going back into crime at all by 15% when community service is imposed instead of unconditional freedom punishment. The risk of new crime leading to the punishment of freedom is reduced by around 25%, while the risk of committing new crime, which is so serious that it leads to a new prison sentence, is reduced by as much as 30%. during the first year following the judgment and 39 per cent. for a period of up to 3 years after the judgment. So community service works. I am aware of the difficult balance between the citizens' sense of justice and the consideration of what actually creates less crime, but the most important thing is to limit future crime through better treatment and modern forms of punishment. We must all agree with that. In addition, it is very, very important to deal with the wrongdoers. It is so important that the wrongdoers also get the focus when we talk about punishing the perpetrator. The alternative means that we need to focus much more on help for the victims, the injured, than there is today. That is why we are also saying that the financial resources used to introduce more prison sentences will do much more good by being used to help the victims and prevent them. Basically, I think we have to ask ourselves the question: is it our need for revenge that must dictate the legal policy of modern Denmark, or should it be a legal policy with which we seek to combat future crime and deal better with the wrongdoers? Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602165650	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602165653	Thank you. I would like to ask a little bit about the issue of rehabilitation and prevention, which the rapporteur did a great deal of in his rapporteur's speech, and thank you for that. Is it not true that, as politicians, we should carry out an overall assessment, that is to say we should focus both on the victim, but indeed also on punishment and on the rehabilitation of criminals? Well, we have to take all things into account. We cannot stare blindly at one thing. When you put all these things together, does it not make a very great impression when several organisations in this area say that some of what can be really difficult for many victims is the very small punishment given to people who commit crime, at least in my world, is very harsh? Does the rapporteur not think that it is thought-provoking and problematic and that we should do something about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160602165751	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602165752	I fully agree with the questioner that a comprehensive view should be taken, and that is also what I am trying to do here. If you ask a lot of the wronged and very many of the victims, and I have been lucky enough to have the opportunity to do so since the Alternative came to Parliament because it is an area that interests me very, very much, the victims point out the wrongdoers among others. It is a unanimous view that there is simply too little focus on them. In the second they are offended or molested, if for example. If the victim is a violent crime or a sexual crime or other offences, the victim must be dealt with. There must, for example, be one. an aid person is made available to follow the victim throughout the course. When you ask the question, as I think Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen in fact also asks me about what the victim is asking for in terms of harsher penalties, they actually say unequivocally that what is important to them is that there is a sanction on the part of society. That is what makes them feel that society has heard them. What is also important then is that they are taken care of as a person after, for example, they are taken care of. has been knocked down on the open street, so someone is helping them through the system.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602165913	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602165914	Thank you. I'm just gonna hang on to this with the victims. I cannot, of course, disagree with what the rapporteur has said about the fact that we all want to do something good for the victims. What I want to say is that we think that it has probably been a neglected political theme for many years, and that is why what the alternative says exactly about it is extremely positive. But I can read a quote from the chairman of the Danish Women's Society's Crisis Center:... it can really be true that he has beaten me so violently, and then he gets to sweep streets for three months...... Social service. Does the rapporteur not see that it seems deeply unfair to people who have literally been beaten up?
ParlaMint-DK_20160602170007	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602170009	Yes. These are some really ugly things that the person in the quote has clearly experienced. It's important to understand what matters to people. Again, I just have to come back and say that it is clear that there must be an assessment of which people can live up to having to do community service. That assessment is there today. Having said that, I would like to say that it is very important that the victims feel heard. It is, in fact, a coherent assessment. And now I have to hurry. The people from the victim associations, etc. with whom I have spoken, say, and it is important that there should be consistency, but what is not today and what is needed is that much more attention should be paid to the victims and to what they need. And it's not necessarily to see the perpetrator in prison for x years.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602170112	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. The next rapporteur is Mrs Zenia Stampe as rapporteur for the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602170122	Thank you. It is hard not to repeat anything that has been said from up here. Unfortunately, I cannot boast of standing up here and discussing a similar matter earlier, as I am quite a new legal rapporteur, but it is one of these discussions that we very often have around the country when we are in an election campaign or meet in panel debates etc. It is also an exciting discussion about how to weigh different considerations against each other, about idealism, about pragmatism, about feelings and reason. And that's why it's an exciting and interesting discussion. As far as I am concerned, there are two main perspectives on punishment. Firstly, there is the question of effect. How do you prevent criminals from falling back into crime? Now that we chose to expand opportunities for community service, it was because at that time we had both the Criminal Law Council and the Ministry of Justice's research unit saying that community service is a punishment that works. It works better than jail time if we measure the effect as the risk of relapse. So if we were to use only the brain and not the heart, that is, the sensible and rational perspective of punishment, then community service is preferable because it is the punishment that makes the least victims. Exactly this sentence, I remember hearing Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll join us when he was still radical and I was sitting at home watching television and thinking that I was proud to be on his side because he just said: The measure of punishment to be measured is how to minimize the number of victims. If that is the yardstick, then community service is the obvious punishment, at least in the cases that we have extended. But there is also another perspective. I am well aware that this is why we are having this debate today. It is the perspective of a sense of justice, a sense of justice, that is, that the punishment given to a person who has committed a crime should feel just and fair. Maybe I'll take a slightly different angle than some of those who have been up here before me have. In fact, I am surprised that community service is perceived as some kind of light punishment. Why is it a milder punishment to work and render to the community than to sit in a prison cell watching television? Actually, I don't understand. Perhaps we could get to know each other if we started to call it punishment instead, if we stopped using wordings like they got away with community service. In fact, I don't understand why community service is being addressed as a milder punishment, as a light punishment. How can it be when it is actually a form of punishment that means that you give and not just sit on your flat ass? Actually, I don't understand. If the only reason for not choosing community service is the sense of justice, why don't we go in and work on giving community service another fire, so to speak? Let us not talk about it as if it is something about sitting around and having fun with some elderly people in a nursing home. It's work. It is work that people spend their leisure time on, on top of which they may have a regular job, which is also a kind of contribution to society. You can set up the two models. You can either throw people in jail, so they sit there and do nothing and watch TV all day, or what do I know, or you can say that they can keep doing their full-time work 37 hours a week, and on top of that they spend their weekends doing community service, for example. work in a nursing home. In fact, when you draw up the two examples against each other, I do not understand why the scenario of working in your everyday life and leisure time must be presented as a light punishment and something that people can get away with, in relation to the prison sentence, because when it is served, people do not do anything they are off duty. One has certainly lost one's freedom because one's locked up, but one's free, whereas one's working, if we take the other as an alternative: one's working on a daily basis, one's working in one's spare time. So I think it might be another solution. We need to work a little hard to address community service as a punishment, for it is a punishment, but it is a punishment that is constructive and creates fewer victims. That is why we are very much in favour of the enlargement that we made in the old government. We think it is one of the best things we did in the old government. But having said that, I would like to say that we are completely open to looking with an open mind at the Attorney General's investigation. Are there any cases that we did not really intend to fall into this enlargement? Well, are we using community service in an unthinkable way in some forms of punishment? We are completely open to this, but as a starting point we believe that community service is a very good and constructive form of punishment, because it creates fewer victims to quote Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll. And if the problem is that people don't think it feels hard enough, let's put some harder words on it, because I think that when you list what it's really about, I don't see why it should be a milder punishment than being in prison.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602170709	Thank you. That is why I must call on the rapporteur to use a synonym to sit on his butt instead of the word spoken here from the platform. So far so good. There are some brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602170727	Thank you. It was a speech that came a long way. And thank you for being quoted... that was quite correctly quoted. But if you had gone a little deeper into my view of justice policy in history, you would know that the argument I put on the floor earlier about concern about the possibility of vigilantness has always been a cornerstone of my view of justice policy. And I believe that these two things go hand in hand. As we are now at the Radical Left, I was sitting there and I found out the party's original program of principle from 1905, which states: "The law of crime is brought by a profound change in line with today's conception of crime and punishment. ▪ It can be said that today's view may have changed a little faster over the years than that of the Radical Left. So it might well be that you should return to your original idea that what we are adopting in here must be in line with today's perception of crime and punishment. And there I think that Mrs Zenia Stampe is either ahead or behind in her wishes for how the people should perceive community service. Either it is a view that was in the 1970s and thus Mrs Zenia Stampe is behind, or it is a vision of the future that has not yet been achieved because it is not here now. But is not the present view more consistent with what I said than with what Mrs Zenia Stampe said?
ParlaMint-DK_20160602170905	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602170907	I think this is a difficult question, because what was today's view then, and what is today's view? And what I am really arguing for is to try to influence the view that community service is actually seen as a punishment and not as a bathing holiday or a reward, because I do not really think it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602170933	Thank you. The deeply committed questioner should show a little more respect for the speaking time. The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602170938	That is a perfectly fair comment from Mrs Zenia Stampe. You could say that what you did up with in 1905 was probably something like the beating penalty and stuff. My point is simply that you may want the people and victims to feel differently, but these are the feelings of the victims that we must first and foremost take into account at this moment. Then you can have a vision of the future to change it. I just think that at the moment it is the opinion that it is unreasonable that, if you commit a violent assault, you get a community service. That was my point.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602171031	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602171032	Yes, and then let us land it in peace and happiness. We were just on the sidelines talking about the fact that we all probably end up in the same place in today's debate, namely that we will look at the Public Prosecutor's investigation and then take the debate again, but on an enlightened and concrete basis. That is why I would also like to say that I agree a little along the way, because it is clear that this is the prevailing view of the law, but in relation to the way in which we refer to community service, when it is just referred to as a light penalty, or it is referred to as something that can be avoided, I think that we can create that perception among the victims, and there we could perhaps work together to talk about the fire of community service in a different way, because it is now rationally the most sensible form of punishment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602171125	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602171129	Thank you. Well, sometimes I get the suspicion that Mrs. Zenia Stampe sometimes takes a very, very mysterious stand, which she realizes she's the only one in the whole world who's been doing just that for fun. Today we have had to listen to the fact that community service is as bad as being in prison. Yeah, it kind of sounds like it's worse. Oh, come on! What do you want to do for yourself? Why does the rapporteur think that, as a defence lawyer, it is of course the case that one's client should be content with a conditional sentence with terms of community service rather than going to prison? That's because you'd rather do it than go to jail. I mean, are we gonna discuss foolishness? If we look at what you get for a crime, it is the case that 2 years of prison were exchanged for 300 hours, and now it has been increased to 450 hours, as far as I remember, that is not to be hung up on, but I think that is what we agreed on but whether it is 300 hours or 450 hours, it is equivalent to 17.520 hours in prison. How can the rapporteur claim that it is worse to work for 300 hours or 400 hours than to spend 17.520 hours in prison, where there is also a duty to work? Because you can't just sit on your desk and I'm gonna sit down on the part of my body that I was talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602171255	Thank you very much. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602171257	Well, you just have to ask yourself again: What makes society the most of? Does it make the most of the fact that you work and contribute to the Treasury during working hours in everyday life, and that you then put work for the community in your spare time as well? But it is also true that it is harder to be beaten and I know that we are no longer doing that in our legal system, but I think it is a difficult comparison to make. Because it is true that killing people is the worst thing to do, it is bad to hit, and it is also bad to lock them in a small room, etc., but if you now take the perspective of how best to pay back, then community service is the punishment where you really do the most.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602171357	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602171358	Well, sometimes you have to say, yes, okay, that was probably a flicker. And, of course, it's worse to be in prison than to do community service. In other words, what would the rapporteur like to do: have taken his freedom and could not be with his children, could not experience parties, ceremonies with his family for 2 years or work 450 hours in his spare time? Why don't we just agree that it was a flicker?
ParlaMint-DK_20160602171427	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602171427-2	In fact, I think that the rapporteur is still mixing up two things, because one thing is the punishment, one can say, the seriousness or the length, or whatever we are talking about, and it is clear that if you are in prison for two years, it is worse than being in prison for one year, but it is difficult to compare two different types of punishment. The rapporteur puts it as if it is actually reducing the penalty, and it is not, of course, another form of punishment. It is not the case that you get a discount on your punishment. It is that you are being punished in a different way, in a way that allows you to contribute to the community and pay back for the crime that you have committed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602171509	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen as rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602171530	Thank you to DF for having called this query debate on community service and the use of community service. After all, this is a very exciting debate which actually affects some of the more fundamental considerations that we are making about how our legal system should be, how our criminal services should work, how we should punish, whether punishment should be the detention order alone. It was also an exciting debate that was just between the rapporteurs of the Left and the Radicals. As you know, the Danish Parliament amended the law in 2014 following massive research and a recommendation from the Criminal Law Council. There was an evaluation that showed that the risk of falling back to crime, what we call relapse, will be reduced by 15-39 per cent if a conditional sentence with community service is imposed instead of serving a prison sentence. So there are significant, positive effects on it, and that is why we extended the use of community service to a broader field of crime, but still only through shorter sentences. Although this has been mentioned a few times, I would also like to give our views on punishment and why we are being detained. One is rehabilitation. You simply get the offenders into a closed environment where you can work with them. We actually have a really, really good criminal justice service in this country, which is really good at rehabilitation. We can be even better, and what we are measuring is a relapse, that is to say, how we ensure that people do not commit new crime. That's what sometimes speaks as the soft form, but that's actually what's hardest. The easiest thing is to lock people up and throw away the key. What is difficult is the long, tough move: to ensure that people do not commit crime again. The second is the sense of justice, the sense of justice, which is equally important. I recognise that the SF fully acknowledges that we must also meet people when they have been subjected to a perhaps violent attack or something else. It is quite reasonable to acknowledge that feeling, too, completely. It just has virtually no effect on the fight against crime, so it's something else. The last point which I think was actually a valid point of view was also made by Mr Seligman. Jan E. Jørgensen, after all, is saying that punishment and detention are something that we take care of in a community governed by the rule of law, and because we do so, we ensure more that no vigilante is committed. A post has been written or, in fact, more about our Minister of Justice's first year. One of them was written by Kim Østerbye, president of the prison union. Besides the fact that I think he's a very smart man, he's also relatively witty. What I'm going to read out here I'm not going to read it all out... is a couple of sentiments that I think are relevant in today's discussion: it may not be that there are voices in rehabilitation. But that is why we must do all we can to prevent the servings from returning to prison again. If we are to break the crime curve in relation to the tough criminals who repeatedly go to prison, we need to put more emphasis on treatment and education. The second quote is: "This makes Søren Pind exactly the same mistake as the bourgeois government in the zeros. An infinite series of punishments without consideration of the practical consequences. ▪ The last quote is: "It may be very good with a shooting minister " it is in connection with the sheriff's name " when you work in the Department of Criminal Services and want something to do. But our job is not to give the criminal services as much to do as possible, because then we could just send even more people to prison. What we want, and what I hear is that in fact all parties would like, is to have both rehabilitation, to ensure the least possible recurrence and to recognise the need for the sense of justice, the sense of justice. Then it may be that we put the emphasis on different things and that we clearly do, and it may be different things that weigh the heavier. I think that some of what very well illustrates that we cannot always just talk about more punishment, but also have to look at the underlying causes, is the discussion about rape that we have had over the past year. I'm really glad it's filled so much. To conclude, I would like to say that, according to the organisations that have worked with them, the main appeal of the victims is, as a rule, not the amount of punishment. What they are saying is that the system must meet them properly, that they must be able to move forward and that they are being dealt with in the judicial system. However, as a final remark, I am sorry, President, that I am going beyond my time, but this is an important subject. I would like to say that, of course, we in the SF support the proposal for adoption that Mrs Trine Bramsen read out. We are also looking forward to the evaluation to be made in the autumn, but we believe that what is a truly healthy society is also a society in which we do not see repeated crime. There's just this really good tool.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602172113	Thank you. And there are a few brief comments. The first question is Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, DF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602172118	Thank you for that and, in particular, thank you to the rapporteur for the end of the speech, in which the rapporteur referred to the sacrificial section. If I have to acknowledge the rapporteur of the Socialist People's Party for something, it is of course the interest shown by the rapporteur precisely in doing something good for the victims. That is why I would like to ask one question which I also asked the previous rapporteur about the rapporteur who was on before the SF rapporteur, namely what these organisations working with victims of violence, for example, have said, where the victims are often indignant about how low penalties are given even for very violent crimes. Does the rapporteur not see with the great interest shown by the rapporteur in precisely doing something good for the victims that there is something we can do about here, precisely to ensure that there is a sense of justice that is strengthened?
ParlaMint-DK_20160602172204	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602172206	I think this is a completely relevant debate. I would like the rapporteur to speak again: the rapporteur gives a concrete example of a specific organisation and some figures. I am sure that the rapporteur has them and that makes it a little easier. But I would also like to say that one of the reasons why we are a little at a distance from the criminal justice system is that we do not sit in tiny communities and make Sharia legislation or say that I have to decide what my attacker should have of punishment. After all, you are too close to it if you have been exposed to crime. Unfortunately, I think that most of us know some people who have been subjected to some form of crime, and there you are too close to what has happened. That goes without saying. Again, I would say that the three legs which I believe our system should be based on re-socialisation, the sense of justice and, what to say, organized social relations. I think I have equal weight, all three. I am sure I will now have the opportunity to answer the specific question when the rapporteur has asked me again.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602172315	Probably. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602172317	[Sound Outlook]... will fight Sharia rule more than us in the Danish People's Party, so there the rapporteur can be quite calm. Those organisations, for example, I. I think it was the same as Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen listed. It's recognized associations that actually go in and problematize this relationship. Doesn't that make an impression?
ParlaMint-DK_20160602172347	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602172349	It does. And I think it would always be natural for organisations working with victims of violence of different categories to have the view that they represent at least some interests of some who think that punishment is too low. I also believe that, in some cases, punishment is always too low if you have been raped or violently assaulted, or whatever it is. There we have to compensate for the various things, including the sense of justice, and at the same time ask what it is that ensures to the greatest extent that no new crime is committed. We have to weigh these two considerations in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602172435	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602172438	Thank you. It is a pity when debates in the Parliamentary Chamber are going to be very black and white. So: Left and government think community service is a good punishment for some types of crime. We want a line to be drawn between, on the one hand, the ability to impose community service and, on the other hand, the inability to impose community service. And the only question is where to put that line. I assume that the Socialist People's Party also agrees that there are crimes that are so serious that we should not be able to, and now I say it again, let go of community service, because I also assume that the Socialist People's Party agrees with me with, I think, the rest of the world's population that it is of course worse to sit in prison than to do community service.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602172524	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602172526	I do not think there was a question in it, technically speaking, but I would like to conclude that there is, because I think I know what Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen will ask. One thing, and that was the last thing, is whether it is worse to be detained. Basically, I think that one of the worst things that can happen to a human being besides being the victim of these terrible things is to be deprived of its freedom. I think that's basically really bad. But you cannot say it so categorically, I think, because if you are detained for two weeks and if the community service is quite extensive both in terms of time and with what you have to do, then it may well be that it suddenly starts to balance. So I do not think it can be said entirely in this way. But I will not begin to neglect how intrusive it is for a person to be detained. Then we will have to discuss whether that community service is wide enough or large enough or what it is. I think that is fair enough to discuss that too. But there is also something good about paying back to society when you have committed a criminal offence through an assault on an individual.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602172640	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602172642	I agree. You could combine it, by the way. But the second part of my question, I admit, was whether the SF also believes that there are crimes that are not suitable for community service, and that could be the arson sentence of the Supreme Court to which I referred earlier.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602172701	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602172703	I do not want to go into the specific judgment, and I would also like to say that there is quite a difference between arson, victims and so on. I know the rapporteur refers to the specific case, but arson can be understood broadly in many different ways. I think it is a good thing that we have a legal system based on the individual case, a single case, and that it would be better for there to be community service than there to be detention in the case. However, I would like to reply to the rapporteur: yes, there are crimes that are so serious that you have to be detained. That is not to say that community service cannot also be a major sanction. It is, of course, a discussion about what this means.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602172756	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then I can see that the Conservative rapporteur is not here. That is why we move on to the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Dansk Folkeparti, who wants a rounded comment on the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602172821	Thank you. In fact, I would just like to thank you for the many good remarks and the views of the parties. I would also like to say that I look forward very much to our coming back to this later this year when the Minister for Justice has received the work that has been started. We would be delighted to contribute to further elucidation of this whole area. It is our impression that we are dealing with a major problem that we want to address, and it should be strange in a situation where we have 90 civil mandates, that we cannot take this area more seriously and ensure that things can be sorted out again. So we are very much looking forward to the Minister coming back with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602172900	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption submitted will take place only on Friday 3 June 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602172916	Members of the Folketing Lisbeth Bech Poulsen (SF) and others. I have been informed that they want to withdraw the following proposals: proposals for a parliamentary resolution on the right of municipalities to recover claims themselves. B 144). Does anyone wish to include this motion for a resolution? As this is not the case, the motion for a resolution has lapsed and therefore item No 1 of the agenda is deleted. 43 of this meeting.
ParlaMint-DK_20160602172946	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 3 June 2016, at 3 p.m. 9. I refer you to the agenda, which appears on the Danish Parliament's website.
