ParlaMint-DK_20160419130021	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Zenia Stampe (RV) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 189 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the establishment of a Commission on Legal Rights). Jens Joel (S), Mikkel Dencker (DF), Thomas Danielsen (V), Søren Egge Rasmussen (EL), Villum Christensen (LA), Christian Poll (ALT), Andreas Steenberg (RV), Pia Olsen Dyhr (SF) and Mette Abildgaard (KF): Request no. F 36 (What can the Minister say about the Government's future energy policy initiatives in the light of the energy policy statement? ) The titles of the cases notified will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20160419130058	The matter entered in item 3 of the agenda can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419130114	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419130137	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419130154	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. In favour 87 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 23 (DF), [no votes for or against 0]. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419130248	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419130327	Today is a sad day, a day when Denmark is once again entering a failed war. It is a war that, in the worst case, can destabilise a totally destroyed Syria and a chaotic Iraq further. This is not a discussion about whether or not Denmark should fight ISIL. Of course we must fight ISIL, but when Enhedslisten is so fiercely opposed to the government's proposal, it is because the proposal is exactly the recipe for another failed Danish war. The government has obviously not learned from the brutal experiences of the wars we have waged on the Danish side; the brutal experiences of the war in Afghanistan, where the experience is that the civilians killed by Western bombs led to a strengthening of the Taliban; the experience of the war in Iraq that bombs led to the chaos from which ISIL has grown. If Danish bombers hit civilians in Syria and Iraq, we risk strengthening ISIL. And to make it even worse, this time the government will give Danish fighters the opportunity to bomb even closer to inhabited areas with great danger of civilian loss. It could be brutal. It could cost civilian lives. And this can lead to the strengthening of extreme forces. In the Enhedslisten, we would much rather be fighting ISIL, but we will not do so by throwing bombs that risk hitting civilians and which risk increasing their support for extremists. Instead, we will strengthen the local democratic forces in Syria by working to involve them in the peace process and to increase aid for humanitarian reconstruction in the areas that they have liberated from the Assad regime and from ISIL. Together with the Alternative, we have put forward a proposal on this which will be dealt with later today in the Danish Parliament, and I hope, of course, that the Danish Parliament will support those proposals. With this proposal, the government is opening up the way for prisoners to be extradited to the Iraqi authorities without any agreement being reached that they will not be tortured or executed, despite the fact that we know that the Iraqi authorities are guilty of systematic abuse of prisoners and the use of the death penalty. Such extraditions are likely to be contrary to Denmark's obligation under the Antitorture Convention, and both Amnesty International and DIGNITY have alerted the Danish Institute Mod Tortur to the Danish Parliament. The government will send Denmark to war on a very, very thin basis. The government has no idea what the consequences of the Danish bombings in Syria will be. If ISIL is hunted on the run from an area, there will be a risk that the Assad regime or extreme Islamist groups will take control. It is most absurd, however, that we are in the totally grotesque situation, that the Minister for Defence has not wanted to give us an insight into which Syrian groups should have military support from Denmark. We have been told that these are individual groups, but we have not been given the full picture. I have asked the Minister for Defence and his answer has been quite clear: I cannot tell you who we are going to war with. We know that Danish fighters will have to help selected groups in Syria with air support, but we cannot get full insight into which groups are involved. We know that parts of the coalition support extreme Islamist groups inside Syria, but we do not know whether Denmark should support these Islamists. It should be logical that we cannot combat ISIL by simply supporting another group of extremists. And after previous Danish war participation, we should all be extremely concerned about what forces Danish war participation can risk strengthening this time. I must honestly say that I simply do not think it can be right for the government to ask the Folketing to support a war in Syria without wishing to give the Folketing a full insight into who it is that Denmark should give military support inside Syria. But from here I have to say that it becomes even more grotesque, because not only will the Minister for Defence not tell who Denmark is going to cooperate with, but the Minister for Defence will not even answer whether he can vouch for the groups that Denmark is going to provide air support. In other words, we are in a situation where the Secretary of Defense asks the Danish Parliament for support to go to war with military groups, for which he would not even agree with the Danish Parliament himself. Honestly, what is it that the Secretary of Defense and the government have to hide? I think it's completely grotesque. And even more grotesque is the fact that the Secretary of Defense seems to have support from the Danish Parliament for his misguided, secretive and clearly ill-thought-out warfare. I would have called on the Minister of Defence from the platform today to come to the floor and explain which groups should have air support inside Syria. As I said, I believe that we have a right to know before we vote in a moment. Who is it that Danish fighters must go to support inside Syria? The Secretary of Defense did not go to the platform at first reading. The Secretary of Defense did not want to answer in committee whether he could vouch for groups that need Danish air support. Now we have a situation in which the Minister for Defence is not present in the Chamber at all. I assume, of course, that the Minister for Foreign Affairs can give a clear answer. I assume, of course, that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will take the floor. And I would like to urge the Foreign Minister to answer whether the Foreign Minister can vouch for the groups that the Foreign Minister and the Government are asking the Folketing to provide military support in Syria. I would ask the Secretary of State to answer why it is that the government has so far wanted to keep this hidden. I think the government and the Minister for Foreign Affairs owe us an answer to what groups the government and the Minister for Defence have not yet wanted to stand by.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419131121	Thank you. There are some rapporteurs who have joined us, but there are only a few brief comments. Sir. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419131128	For the sake of good order, I would like to start by saying that we had a closed consultation last week, when Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen was given answers to the questions about which groups we will be supporting in Syria. This is not something we can refer to because it is confidential information, but it is just for the record that I would like to say that these questions have been answered. There has been a dialogue with the Secretary of Defense on this very subject. It is absolutely true that we are making a decision here, although we do not know what is going to happen down in Syria when we eradicate IS. But we are not there specifically to support anyone; we are there to exterminate the Islamic State and defeat them. I know, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen is very preoccupied with, among other things. The relations of the Kurds and the Yazids. These are people who are victims of mass rape and genocide in which an entire people are being tried out. I just want to ask Mr. Knox. Nikolaj Villumsen to take their place and consider whether they do not want us to intervene and stop the genocide that is going on down there. Do they want conflict solutions and humanitarian aid, or do they want Western soldiers who go down and stop the absolutely monstrous genocide where hundreds of thousands of people die?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419131241	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419131244	As I said in my speech, this is not a question of whether Denmark should do anything or not. I think we should do something. I think we should support the local democratic forces so that they are strengthened so that they can fight ISIL. I think we should do that, and that is what the Enhedslist, together with the Alternative, is proposing in this Chamber today. But I must honestly say that I would like to hear whether the rapporteur of the Conservatives can rule out Denmark having to support Islamist groups inside Syria. Because I can say clearly that I cannot, and I did not learn more about the consultation where both Mr. Rasmus Jarlov and I participated.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419131327	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419131330	I will be taking the floor in a few moments and then you can ask all the questions you want to put to the Conservatives' policy, which I would very much like to explain. But now it is the policy of Enhedslisten that we are starting to discuss, and I am surprised that Enhedslisten feels safer by supporting some groups down there over which we have no control, rather than putting in place a coalition of forces over which we have control. Although there is this enormous uncertainty, it must be thought that everything else will provide a little more certainty in terms of development if we deploy our own forces, rather than giving arms and support to groups that we have no idea where we have or how we will develop.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419131414	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419131415	I have some doubts as to whether Mr. Rasmus Jarlov has listened to what I have said. What I have been saying here is that we must give support. The Enhedslisten and the Alternative have concrete proposals that we should strengthen groups that are secular and democratic. What I am standing here and speaking against is that the government's proposals will be supported shortly, as the Conservatives will, unfortunately, where air support is given to groups that we cannot get a full insight into who is. We can't even get the Secretary of Defense's word that he can vouch for these groups. And Mr. Rasmus Jarlov could not answer whether he could rule out Islamist groups inside Syria. Islamist groups do not need Danish air support.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419131500	Thank you. Then it's mr. Nick Hækkerup, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419131508	So, if we are to sum up, the Enhedslisten believes that we must fight against ISIL, and we must fight them by providing increased humanitarian aid and somewhat unclear involvement in the peace process. Does the Enhedslisten's rapporteur believe that the two measures will be that which cracks hardcore Islamist soldiers who have so far shown absolutely monstrous cynicism? Isn't that just such an answer, so you have something to say, but as we all know very well, this problem doesn't solve at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419131547	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419131549	Well, if anyone comes up on this platform today and says that tomorrow Denmark can just remove ISIL, then they're lying. What we are discussing today is how Denmark can make the best possible difference, and I simply do not believe that giving air support to secret groups, which the Minister of Defence cannot even inform himself about, will break ISIL. Instead, I believe that Denmark can make a decisive difference if we support local democratic, secular forces. There we are presenting two proposals today, together with the alternative. I think it is relevant to discuss whether Denmark could support them in other ways. We had a visit from representatives of democratic organisations a short time ago here in the Folketing. For example, they wanted protective equipment so they were able to defend themselves against toxic gas attacks by ISIL. It would be relevant to discuss whether Denmark could also deliver it. I think it is important that we put in place where we support local democratic forces, and I am deeply concerned that we have not been able to get an answer on what groups are going to vote for air support.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419131654	Sir. Nick Hækkerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419131656	Now we are starting to approach something where we almost succeed in getting Enhedslisten out of the sand: you can get protective equipment. What the rapporteur forgot to say is that it is also the position of the Enhedslisten that those groups should be given arms. So instead of the war that we do not want to wage, we have to give them a lot of weapons so that they can kill each other down there, because we don't want any of these problems to come to life ourselves. But we'd like to give them guns so they can shoot at each other. Is it not true that Enhedslisten thinks that one of the answers here is not just to hand over protective equipment, but that it is also to hand over weapons?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419131732	Here you go, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419131733	It is quite true that the Enhedslisten has proposed in the Assembly that the Kurdish forces who defended the Kurdish city of Kobane against the Islamic State should have weapons. We have proposed that we should support the local democratic forces. Unfortunately, it has so far been rejected by a majority in the Folketing. Now we have a situation where the government is proposing to give air support to the very same groups, but also to some groups that they will not tell us who is, and that is where I am concerned. I think we should support these groups, which are the democratic forces, but I do not think we should do this by air support. I think we should do so in other ways, as the Enhedslisten specifically proposes in the Parliamentary Chamber today. However, I find it very strange that the Socialists can support this without having a clear rejection of the fact that it is a question of Denmark giving air support to extremist groups inside Syria.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419131830	Then it's mr. Jep Jakobsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419131838	What Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur says is quite wrong. Or at least it's half a truth, as Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen comes along when he says that Denmark just gives air support to various groups. It is not, of course, a question of making our planes available to these groups, but only of helping to wipe out targets from the Islamic State with Danish weapons, which are, of course, designated by some of these groups. Isn't that correct? Nikolaj Villumsen that it's not a free pass for these groups, but that it's all about attacking the Islamic State?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419131912	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419131914	Yes, sir. Jeppe Jakobsen, it is quite true that what the government is proposing is to give air support to selected groups inside Syria, which can give kick-in to where the targets are and identify targets that Danish fighters will then bomb. But what is completely incomprehensible to me is that the Danish People's Party can support it without us getting full insight into who these groups are and without us getting a clear answer from the Secretary of Defense as to whether he can vouch for these groups. We know that parts of the coalition support extreme Islamists inside Syria. Can the Danish People's Party really vote in favour of Denmark possibly supporting extreme Islamists?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419132002	Sir. Jep Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419132004	The problem arises when Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen makes the much too simplistic equation that says that my enemy's enemy is my friend. This is by no means the case with the Danish People's Party. In the Danish People's Party, we have only one goal in being present in Syria, and that is to fight Islamic State. It is not about supporting anyone else in Syria, but it is only about defeating an enemy that threatens Denmark. Therefore, it is not a question of Denmark giving support to certain groups, but of fighting an enemy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419132040	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419132044	I'd like to invite Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen to read this suggestion again. For it is precisely the case that Denmark provides air support to selected groups inside Syria. We just can't get full insight into who these groups are. The situation is that Enhedslisten wants to support democratic secular groups inside Syria, and the Danish People's Party intends to vote in favour of this proposal without knowing whether it is Islamist groups that should have air support from Denmark. Frankly, I think there are quite a few Danish People's Party voters sitting and shaking their heads out there in the living rooms.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419132111	Sir. Nase Khader, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419132119	Now the rapporteur presents it as if only Denmark is fighting Islamic State from the air, but it does a whole coalition of about 50 countries. Is it only Denmark that has to call off the action against the Islamic State, or is it all in the coalition?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419132138	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419132140	What we have been able to read over the weekend is that the English fighters have hardly been on their wings for a long time, and one can ask whether, when the English fighters are not used, the Danish are really needed. Is it merely symbolic support that we are giving in this way because so many countries are queued up to bomb? I think it is appropriate to ask the government that question. But when Mr. Nase Khader asks me, I think he is fishing a little bit after whether there are any air strikes that can make sense in Syria and Iraq. To that I would say: yes, we have seen, for example, that the bombings around Kobane actually helped the Kurdish forces. So I fully acknowledge that. But when Enhedslisten cannot support it today, it is because we believe that Denmark should do something else to combat ISIL. I am deeply, deeply concerned that we cannot get answers to what groups it is that the government wants to provide air support. Instead, we propose that local democratic forces be supported so that they are included in the peace process and strengthened in the fight against ISIL.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419132247	Thank you. Well, then, sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten, asked for the floor. And I very much urge that the questioning of one's own rapporteur should not spread too much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419132258	I fully understand the President's request and I fully share it. But we are in the very strange situation that the rapporteurs of the three largest parties recommending the launch of this war, the Social Democrats, the Left and the DF, have not gone up on the platform so that we could have a debate with them and had been able to ask questions to them. I would just like to ask Nikolaj Villumsen whether he does not find it strange to be questioned by some of the parties from down here who do not go to the platform themselves, so that questions can be asked to them and whether he does not find it strange that these parties dare not stand by their position so that we can have a real discussion in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419132341	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419132343	Yes, I think it is strange, and I would like to urge the rapporteurs from the Socialists, the Danish People's Party and the Left and from the other parties of the Danish Parliament to take the floor today. Because this is a very, very serious matter. It is a question of Denmark going to war in Iraq and Syria, and I think we should have a thorough debate on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419132402	Thank you, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen. Then there are some other rapporteurs who have joined us. It's first, sir. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419132419	I have also taken the floor because I think this is such an important matter that I allow myself to take your time. I do not think I can and do not intend to try to convert anyone in this Chamber, because it is enough, as it is, a decision that has already been made. That is why I will try not to blame too many people. On the other hand, I would like to go a little deeper into what it is that means that we, who sit and represent Denmark, make such a decision and that there is virtually no debate in the population. Then it can be said that there has been a lot of debate. Yes, that is to say, the debate is removed a little bit when we talk about whether we should fight against the IS, the barbarians, and what they do to people in the areas where they are, and then the weighting takes place whether we should fight them or not. There we are in the alternative some of those who are put in the box where we do not want to fight them. That's too bad, because then you're gonna be kind of a lunatic who's standing over there in that box and saying we're not gonna do anything about this problem. And no matter how many times we try to nuance the debate, we are asked: Well, are you going to do nothing? It's passive! Well, that's because we're gonna do something completely different. We will insist that the 15 years of failed activist foreign policy, which Denmark has stood for, we roll back. Then we look at what an activist foreign policy was once, that is, something where you sat down at the end of the table, where a small state, which Denmark is a security policy, sat down at the end of the table, if you could sit there or just a little to the right or to the left at the end of the table and then insisted on a political solution. Because right now we see that solutions are being rolled out from the United States or from NATO or who we are working with in the given case where we are really nothing but symbolic. It is not up to us to assess or measure whether the solutions we offer are effective, whether they lead to an end. That is why we have no debate, because the question is just whether we want to go against the barbarians or not going against them. I see that in many countries right now, among other things. The United States is about to come up with a really sharp debate on this issue, because it is necessary to assess whether it is really useful with all the money we are throwing at it, whether we are going to make it. And you start putting a little more pressure on Europe and on Denmark for us to contribute something more to NATO: how do you really want to secure Europe and yourself? That is where we in the Alternative come into the picture and also SF and Enhedslisten, as I have understood the dialogue with them and say: Well we have something quite different. In the alternative, we believe that this is no longer a difficult question. What is in the motion for a resolution before us today, I have said until this moment, at almost all times, is an impossible question, it is so complicated a question. But what we are discussing today is not complicated. The conflict is complicated. The conflict is multifaceted. There are 1,600 rebel groups or so in Syria. Rebellion groups? Ahr, interest groups. What are they, extremists? We do not really know that, but there are at least 1 600 groups that we choose to go in and bomb among in a substitute war where a great many great nations have interests at stake. Then you can say, and then you just stand there watching. Well, I just don't know what else to do. Should we go in and bomb without knowing who should take over afterwards when bombs have been bombed, as we have been seen doing elsewhere in the Middle East over the past 15 years? We have recently heard our own soldiers tell us that the status quo is actually what is about to be in Afghanistan. Our own soldiers tell us when we talk about the principle of proportionality in going in with the mandate we have here that civilian losses in theory may occur and may occur. We cannot reject it, we hear the Danish politicians say. I think it would be more honest and more open to communicate what it really is that lies in this war. We have to go from door to door, and if it's not us, it's somebody else. We have to go from door to door and fight these terrorists. We will destroy them from the face of the earth, and they will hide behind children, men, women, civilians. And in order to get through to them, we use the principle of proportionality, that is to say, where you bring that jerk, the fact that civilians die, too, not only by chance or something that might happen, but where our success is, in other words, success when we drop the bomb, and when we lift the gun, we also bring civilians, because it benefits the greater good in this case. Actually, I can understand that. I cannot deny that in some cases and in some wars it would be right to do so, because then we could spare the lives of thousands by taking the lives of four people. Well, I can't put myself in the position of the soldier who's gonna do this, but I understand. And it is commendable that there are some who have more courage than I have to do. But I just think that we should be open here in the Folketing and tell the Danes what kind of war we are going into. My picture of war is not that today, in 2016, you walk out into a field and then have to decide what comes out there that you don't really know what is. My picture is that it's something that happens from some planes. Human contact does it actually take place? Yeah, I guess so, but pfui. Now I'm smarter. I may have been for some years, but there are so many Danes who never come under our headlines. So when we say that there may be civilian casualties, that we cannot deny it; that we cannot quite deny that we are going to hand over prisoners to Iraqi forces who are using the death penalty; and that we cannot quite deny that we do not really know what kind of people are going to take over in the cities we are releasing, then I can deny that the alternative is voting in favour of this resolution, and it has become very, very easy for me to reject it. And I wish we in the Folketing would make a virtue out of getting all the horrors of war out to the people, so you know what we say yes or no to. Then it may well be that sometimes we have to go in with a broad UN mandate instead of choosing the solution to say that it is not now because we can see that there is a plan, that there is a direction, that the right parties are in play, that we have the Kurds with us all with that there is a plan for the future. Then it may well be that military intervention is the right thing, because it is the only thing that can win over the barbarians at that moment, and because we know that it then creates a foundation for peace afterwards. It's just not where we are at all. There's, excuse me, no plan. The closest thing I've ever heard of a plan is something that goes six months ahead. Many people are not in the peace talks right now. No matter what happens to a peace agreement agreed in Saudi Arabia, where the Turks have a big thumb on what is happening, we will already have problems before we start resolving the conflict because the Kurds are not there. What's starting the new civil war? What was it that begotten IS-- beyond socio-economic interests, poverty, extremism? Because that's what it is. Right now, IS is most of all the strongest magnet in the world to collect extremism, not necessarily religious, but also religious. So what we're fighting against is something that's in people's minds. We will bomb that locally while we see it spreading with thousands in Africa, thousands elsewhere in the Middle East, locally in Europe. We know these bombs will create more hatred and more terror. So we insist on the long-term solution and there are no bombs in it at the moment. And I would like us to be more open about what kind of war we are going into, rather than leaving it to the war of necessity, where there are actually no other alternatives. We have plenty of alternatives. Wars always end at a negotiating table. The only question is when we insist on going to it. And that's why we say no, thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419133310	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of brief comments. First, it's sir. Nick Hækkerup, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419133320	I simply did not realize in the long, long statement what was then the answer. It was something about having to sit on the right of someone at the negotiating table, and then it was going to work out, but is it not true that the alternative, along with its allies in the Enhedslisten, has said that weapons must be handed out, which at least in my world indicates that they must then be used to shoot at each other? These are therefore protective equipment and weapons, and the Enhedslisten's rapporteur said just a moment ago that the bombings made sense in the fight against the Islamic State and even referred to an example of this. So is it not true that part of the answer here, also according to the alternative's own policy, is arms?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419133412	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419133414	No, right now we're saying we're gonna have to get civilians and forces from the area, Syria, Iraq, to run this uprising. As we draw forces from the outside, we just have to recognise that there is no confidence in our good intentions, that there is no confidence in the good intentions of the United States, that there is no confidence in the intentions of the other deputies that this is for the good. We need to focus on the fact that if Syria is to be free, including in the eyes of the people who live in Syria, it is for them to breed this rebellion, and there we can help them. There we can help them with civil structure and the construction of political systems, infrastructure, emergency aid, all that. At the same time, it may also be that weapons are needed, but that is not what we are proposing right now. We must ensure that there is a key to what is going to happen there, instead of bombing IS.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419133508	Sir. Nick Hækkerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419133511	So the alternative does not believe that protection equipment and weapons should be handed over to any groups involved in the fight in Syria?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419133523	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419133525	That is not what I am saying, but a first step before we can even go in and have this dialogue about what needs to be done, about whether to bomb and who to support is that we need to know who they are. I see that the rapporteur is smiling and he started by unplugging my whole speech by saying: should you sit right or left at the table? That's exactly what I wanted to say. In other words, we want a debate where we listen, or we want a debate where we have decided that it is simple to insist on something other than bombs. That is where my humble call will be: Imagine all the places where what I am saying doesn't make sense, but don't put us in that box where only the bombs can always speak for Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419133600	Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419133604	I understand, sir. René Gade, that he is sorry to get shot in the shoes, that the alternative will not do anything about the situation. But frankly, I think it is a very reasonable criticism to address the alternative, because now we have heard Mr. René Gade's long speeches here, and I do not think there will be any solutions. In other words, it is being proposed that we should sit down at the negotiating table. That's where we're already sitting. There is a very, very large and very, very comprehensive diplomatic process under way, where real efforts are being made to try to find a negotiated solution down there. So there is nothing new that the alternative suggests here. The question is whether we should stop these people who commit genocide and mass rapes trying to destroy cultures, trying to destroy anyone who is different from themselves by murder. Should we stop them or should we not stop them? The alternative will not stop them, does not have any solutions to how to do it, but comes with one long problematisation of efforts down in Syria, which, yes, will happen under uncertain conditions. That's the way it is with military action. But there is also a cost of just continuing to, I don't know how many years by now, to look at hundreds of thousands of people being slaughtered down there.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419133713	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419133715	What we want to do about it is that it is patch solutions that we come up with. What makes this sound so violent to some is that we insist that we can actually say no to participating in the coalition of the willing, that is to say, those who say yes without a broad UN mandate. And if you say no to it today, you can't do anything. Yeah, we can start pushing. We can say to NATO that the contribution we make, the percentages we have to make, rather than being bombs and military equipment, can actually be humanitarian aid, that security policy is more than war. It's a long, cool move, and it won't come tomorrow, as Nikolaj Villumsen also said. None of us can imagine that we will destroy IS tomorrow. But the important thing here is that the war we have waged in the Middle East has lasted 15 years, and the war we are looking at right now in Syria and Iraq says everyone is going to take many, many years. So what I'm saying is, shouldn't we do it right instead? So if you say that there are no solutions on our part, it is because you do not recognise that there are other solutions • that diplomacy is actually there. If we stand with the war in one hand and diplomacy in the other hand and say that we want to make a peace solution, then it is just really hard for many to believe if we simultaneously bomb and there are civilian casualties.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419133823	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419133826	Well, there's nothing new about that. Security policy is more than war. Yes, thank you. We know that. I think, sir. René Gade says it as if it were such a revelation: Have you just considered that we could do something other than first go to war? We've been waiting for what 5-6 years now? Nobody can come and say we've been eager to go into this war. Everyone is sick and tired of wars in the Middle East. But there is also just some time when it has to be said that here we have a movement where it seems reasonably obvious that the situation would probably be better if they were stopped in their genocide, mass rapes and terrorism.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419133907	..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-DK_20160419133908	I think my best answer must be that we have a headline for the whole effort here, called the war against the IS. Well, that's who we want to go down and do something about. If we were to have a sensible basis for fighting in my view, that would be to create stability in the region. Because right now we are identifying the entire enemy, the root of the evil, the whole problem of a terrorist organisation, which in ten years' time is just called something else. There's always been terror. So what we are going out and doing now is that we are fighting a terrorist organisation, and there will be more of them if we do not do things properly from the start.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419133942	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419133950	I am proud that Denmark will soon take an active part in the fight against the Islamic State, and I am proud that the Danish People's Party will vote in favour of Denmark being involved in the fight against the Islamic State. I think it sounds strange when the alternative says that you just have to insist on a political solution. Well, that sounds really sweet, and that would be nice. I mean, the day when the lamb and the lion graze next to each other, I think that is realistic as well. But how should that be realistic today? Does the alternative mean that it is enough for the Islamic State to insist that they sit down and negotiate sweetly and neatly? And does the alternative really believe that Denmark has greater security against being hit by terrorist attacks, by the alternative voting against a military action against the Islamic State and at the same time sending some appeals to the Islamic State that they should speak nicely to the rest of us?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419134038	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419134040	If we are talking solely about Denmark's security, I think the best thing we can do is not to say yes to this. Because there is no doubt that more terrorists will come out of saying yes to this and that they will direct their eyes to Denmark. You can then talk about whether we should do one thing or the other. I really have tried to answer as well as I can, and I can only say that when we insist on a political solution from the alternative, it is because we see that it has not been tried. I mean, we haven't tried the political solution. If we had tried that, we would have said no to some of the first to say yes to bombing on a basis where we do not actually know what is up and down. We have the experience, and this is one of the only areas in Denmark where you do not look at what has happened and where you have closed an Iraq Commission and did not want to learn from what challenges there were, the last time we went in. That's why I think if I've heard the question correctly, or else you'll have to follow up that it's a little too bad that we've already tried diplomacy. So it is difficult with the United States in their backs and with the reputation and reputation they have in the Middle East.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419134142	We're not gonna talk directly to each other. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419134146	I find it difficult to understand what the alternative means here. In other words, the alternative believes that the Islamic State was also active in Afghanistan and Iraq in the past and that we have done this before. I just have to say that the Islamic State is a relatively new thing that has arisen and that we now have to fight because it is precisely not possible to talk to them. That is what characterises the Islamic State: they use terror as a means of fighting. That is why military means must be used against them, and it is not true that we have been engaged in the fight against the Islamic State in the past elsewhere in the wars that have taken place. So you can't use those experiences. But why is it that the alternative believes that Denmark will gain more security by not fighting Islamic State? I mean, that's black talk.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419134229	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419134231	I'll take that first. In isolation, we have been told by a wealth of experts that by going in and killing civilians, even though I know that this is not the intention, there will be a major terrorist threat against Denmark. And right now, Denmark is not threatened in many other ways than terror. As to whether IS is an organization that has been here for a long time or not, we agree that the name IS came out quite a few years ago. But the whole problem, i.e. that there is instability in the region and that there are people who socio-economically have no opportunities at all in their everyday lives and are being pressured, is nothing new. And that is what creates a terrorist organisation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419134307	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419134310	Thank you. The argument is that we have not learned anything from the last 15 years. The argument is that the last 15 years of activeist foreign policy have been misguided. It is believed that the dialogue should have taken place at the time of 2001 when Al-Quada was free to play in Afghanistan. But does the alternative not understand that we cannot engage in dialogue with those who do not want dialogue? For that is precisely what characterizes Al-Qaeda and now Islamic State. They do not recognize our social organisation at all in any way whatsoever, and that is why it is a fruitless effort to try to engage in a dialogue with some who basically want you exterminated. How does the Alternative wish to conduct such a dialogue when the other party is not at all responsive?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419134406	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419134408	Well, I think I'm the only one who doesn't talk about dialogue with the Islamic State. I do not believe in any way that we can have a dialogue with the Islamic State. I do not believe in any way that they should be involved in our negotiations. But what I recommend is that you make a policy that allows two winners to come out of a meeting, and the Islamic State is not one of the two. So what I am asking is for us to make a foreign policy in which we do not have our own interests, whether it be on our side, Russia, Iran, the Saudi side, the American side, which makes it possible for everyone to believe fully that we are doing this with the best intentions. There are no bodies in the cargo, and it is not necessarily Denmark's fault that there are bodies in the cargo. Maybe there is. I don't have the full picture, but the problem is that as long as we're so close to one another. this coalition of the willing and the United States, it is very, very difficult for us to think in new ways and do the things we say, so go out and then bet a hundred percent that Denmark is not a military great power. We are a small state which must assert itself by behaving properly and going in to press all the places we can, diplomatically.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419134521	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419134524	Thank you. So you do not want to take the dialogue with the Islamic State. You don't want to fight them. But one assumes that if you can get all the other parties in the world to think that the Islamic State is some horrible people, then they will simply cease to exist. Because if you do not want to fight the Islamic State by force or by speech, it must be them who are shutting themselves down. I am quite convinced that this is not part of the battle plan for the Islamic State. So the alternative must surely come up with another answer as to how the Islamic State should cease to exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419134602	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419134608	If we look away from facts and from history, I could quickly be persuaded that we should bomb the Islamic State and ensure that they never spoke again anywhere. I think everyone would be very satisfied with that, at least in our part of the world, and also the vast majority in Syria and Iraq. The problem is, it's not what I'm after at all. I do not believe that this is the reason why we have the conflicts in the Middle East, i.e. the Islamic State. I think it's a symptom of the conflict. As long as we continue to talk about the need to remove the Islamic State and whether it is possible to enter into dialogue with them and whether negotiations can be held with them, we will completely distort the debate. That is not at all what is at stake. We need to ensure that these things do not happen by Syria, for example, not being destabilised by Assad and looking at while Assad is making genocide because we cannot go in because there has been major politics in it. It was along with a drought that triggered that IS really began to blossom.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419134654	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Juel Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419134702	I would just like to know whether the rapporteur is not impressed by the fact that the UN Security Council has stated that ISIL represents an unprecedented global threat to international peace and security.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419134712	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419134713	Yes, and I would actually like to use the word hate and say that I also have hatred for the Islamic State. In fact, there is no doubt about that at all. So, of course, make an impression. We can all agree that this is a terrible organisation, but I would point out that the whole resolution here that we must fight terrorism and the IS is wrong, because if our ambition is to ensure stability in the region and peace in general and a free Syria, this is not enough. Then we have to think much more holistic. It is not enough to agree that IS are some bad bandits and some traitors and some dogs when hiding behind the civilian population. We are in complete agreement on this. The debate here always revolves around what one can get him from the alternative to say about the Islamic State. I am saying that these are the ones we should not talk about if we want peace. We all agree that we should get out of the guard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419134801	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419134803	But that is basically what the motion for a resolution is all about: getting ISIL off duty. But if the rapporteur wants peace and stability, and I have absolutely no doubt about that, it is also about getting those who do not want peace and stability out of the watch. That is why this motion for a resolution is so necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419134825	I think I used the example earlier that I am delighted when American fighters support Kurdish rebels or other secular rebels in the fight against IS. However, the problem is that if it creates more terrorists and more instability, we cannot welcome the small victories, and that is why we do not support the military actions that are taking place. We need to find out how to make a comprehensive plan for how to resolve the conflict, and then we may have to take military action.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419134855	Thank you. Then it's mr. Naser Khader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419134859	Quite frankly, and it is not to be polemical, I do not understand what the rapporteur is saying. The rapporteur has said so much and I am confused. Will the rapporteur not spell out to me how we can fight Islamic State without using the military? How can we get them to withdraw from Raqqa, their capital city, where the majority of the foreign jihadists are located? That's where they're planning terror against us. It is also around there that they have their main source of income, the oil. That's where they keep a whole lot of women, mainly Christian women, as sex slaves. How can we fight them without weapons? Just spell it out for me.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419134947	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419134950	I say this as clearly as I can at all: we mean, and here I mean, humanity must fight Islamic State with weapons at some point. I don't think they're lying down on their backs. I am just saying that we in Denmark are at present completely wrong to fight the Islamic State with weapons. There is no plan at all for what to help if we bomb the Islamic State. Once we, together with the Americans and all sorts of people with really good intentions, have bombed them, we find ourselves in a situation where so much dissension and destruction has been created in the region because of the way we have to bomb, and because of the lack of broad foundations of the world's major policy, which would allow us all subsequently to go together and say: we are now building up in this direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419135036	Sir. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419135037	This means that the alternative does not rule out the use of weapons at some point. But why not now that the Islamic State is spreading over most of the world? They are very strong in Libya and they are establishing themselves in many other places based on Raqqa in Syria. Why isn't the time to fight them with weapons now before they spread? For example, if they get into Jordan, we're really screwed. If Jordan falls, we will have even more refugees and much more terror. Why isn't the time to fight them with weapons right now?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419135118	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419135120	I think it is very important to fight internally, in other words the local forces, against them with weapons in order to reduce the civilian losses that are happening down there at the moment and to move in the right democratic direction. The only problem is that when we push this inflamed boil from the outside, it grows and explodes all over other places. As the rapporteur says, are they massively present in other parts of the world? Are we also going to bomb there? Are we also going to bomb in the many countries in Africa where they are present, in Libya, where they have come to now? When's it gonna stop? We can't exterminate this with bombs. So I hear what the rapporteur says and I hope I have made myself quite clear, but it is just a problem if we can only express ourselves clearly by talking about war and action now. We all agree that this might take ten years, even if we use bombs now, so why not do it the right way?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419135205	Sir. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419135208	Fortunately, as the comments on the motion for a resolution show, the vast majority of parties in this House agree that the military trail cannot and should not, of course, stand alone. Diplomacy, humanitarian interventions, interventions against the financing of Daesh, etc. are, of course, absolutely essential elements. So let's just, I would have said, drop the discussion, because we all think so. But when we had the first reading, Mr. After all, René Gade is very clearly aware that the alternative supports the military struggle against Daesh, as it has been in Iraq so far, when thousands of people have been liberated from Daesh. People can return to their homes that have been disarmed. The mines are gone, for example. Ramadi is now Sunni Muslim soldiers under the control of the Iraqi Government who have taken over the city, which we are all extremely fond of and that was Mr. René Gade too, at first reading, said that it has actually succeeded in Iraq, perhaps a little in contrast to the first wars we have been involved in. But this time it is because we do not have our own troops, and because we have combined the efforts, we managed to free large parts of Iraq. It supports the alternative. But then I simply do not understand how one can be against continuing that effort.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419135321	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419135322	If I remember the exchange correctly, I think it was the rapporteur, Mr President. Martin Lidegaard, who asked me the question to be absolutely sure whether we really supported this. And then I think I answered that this was where it became really problematic. Because, as I also just said on aircraft with American support, we supported Kurds on land. And it was really, really hard not to think was good, for it helped us to get some victories locally. In general terms, however, at first reading I have not said at any time that we are in favour of having a war and coalition working in this way without a broad mandate. But I cannot deny that when the Americans or us succeed in supporting the fight against ISIL, I am delighted. But I have not said at any time that we support the efforts of the coalition, but the individual actions that are taking place, I simply cannot as a human being say no to, that they are not good. I'm just afraid it creates something much, much worse in the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419135415	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419135418	So the liberation of the tens of thousands of women and children in Iraq is that refugees can return to their homes as a result of inter alia: The support given by Denmark and the coalition to the Iraqi Government will not be supported in principle in the alternative, but all the good that comes out of it can be supported. Can the rapporteur hear that it may well cast a little doubt on what is meant by it? I think it's a tough choice, too. I know all the dangers that are involved in it, but I also think that you have to take the consequence of it a little, that you can see that something works and some people get a life back. If you do not believe in that, and I think it is the rapporteur's opinion that it can be done without military action, then perhaps we could also expect the Alternative to stand a little moralizing and to say that all of us have not understood at all what is going on, and ask how we can possibly support it here, that we can be led to support something that comes to so many people, especially so many civilians, to the benefit, especially in Iraq.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419135519	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419135520	Here we come to the conflict between having to do something that may not be right in the long term, or doing what is right now, which is just as cruel as we stand and observe that some civilians are dying and some are being rescued by locals. Because it is impossible to say what is right and wrong here. However, the alternative cannot support a war that we think is ultimately breeding more of what we are fighting against. Because since I can only be delighted, and we fully support in the alternative that we save people in Iraq or Syria, we cannot at the same time say yes to doing the same again at a later stage, if it begets more terror, more instability for many, many thousands of people. This is the principle of proportionality that I was talking about before. It works on paper, but we must be sure that there is a plan for how it will work in the future too. Because otherwise we can't back it up. So I am delighted when 10,000 people are saved, but if it distracts a lot of instability in the future, more terror and unresolved problems, then we cannot back it up.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419135622	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419135631	Thank you. I would very much like to ask a question to either the Socialists and Mr. Nick Hækkerup, who has asked many questions, or Mr. Martin Lidegaard or some of those who have asked many questions, but who have not gone on the floor, and so I thought it might be that the rapporteur could help me. One of the things that puzzles me very much is what will happen after the smoke has settled. The experience from Iraq was that Danish forces can move in, but they also move out again, and then there is a void that somebody or something needs to fill out. And if there isn't a plan for that, we can see with ISIL now what happens next. Well, I guess so, sir. René Gade can answer me what he believes the Social Democrats, the Danish People's Party, Radicals think should happen when bombed and IS is gone? Who's gonna take over?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419135725	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419135727	I understand the question, but I will refrain from saying what I think the other parties mean. But I'm gonna give my word for what's gonna happen when we go in like this. It's gonna be a long, tough fight, where you have to be on target for what you've set in motion. In the best sense, attempts have been made to put an end to a conflict; in the best sense, attempts have been made to press the IS. But are we going to stay in the country with ground troops and with forces and for how many years? Have we taken it with us, have we agreed to it within the parties too, so that we just keep supporting until the IS is removed from the surface of the earth? I've heard earlier that that's what you wanted. After all, they are now in many other parts of the world than just in Syria, so I think we are going to have a very, very great challenge to live up to what has been set in motion here. So what we call responsibility, what we call action and a robust mandate, we must have to last for a very, very many years. So I think it is some people other than us who should go in and deliver it; it is the civilian population who should make this blossom.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419135831	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419135833	I do not know whether I necessarily agree that this is in the best sense. I think it's against knowing better that you're going in. My errand is, of course, to call out to those parties who ask a whole lot of questions, but who have not explained themselves from the platform and who have yet to answer the fundamental question: how do they intend to ensure that this does not develop any more chaos and give rise to more destabilisation of Syria? But I understand that Mr. René Gade does not have a guess that is qualified enough to express itself, and then I will not demand it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419135914	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419135916	I have many qualified guessings, but I just don't think it's right to shoot the other parties in the shoes what they think. However, I would like to make one comment at the end. I have in the last few days as recently as this morning discovered that more media than ever have called me and asked me what the Alternative means here, because it sounds exciting, as they say. Is there really another way? Can you really do this another way? Nobody else really says that in your way, they say. There are many others, among others. Enhedslisten and the Radicals and probably the other parties have always had these nuances in what I haven't been in politics so long to know which war is really the only solution. There are some media who think: Wow, maybe there's something about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419140001	Thank you. Then it's mr. Claus Kvist Hansen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419140009	Thank you. Now the rapporteur himself mentions the word exciting, and I think that is actually very, very well-chosen, because I also find it exciting to try to find a thread in the alternative's plan or strategy, or whatever it is you are putting forward. I have not succeeded, and to quote Naser Khader, I have to say that it remains black for me too. But I don't want to step around in it anymore. What I note is that the alternative says that we have experience that things go wrong when it becomes activist. We can see this: the last 15 years in the Middle East have gone wrong every time. All right, then, in order to try to follow your thinking, I would like to know whether the rapporteur can give some examples of a conflict, an extermination war that is in full bloom and has been running for 4-5 years, when a meeting or two with us on the right, or what it was, suddenly leads to everyone going out as winners and the conflict stops, and that attacks on civilians are stopped. I'd like to hear that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419140108	Thank you. We should not speak directly to the rapporteur. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419140112	In addition to my communication difficulties and my lack of clarity in spit, I think that it really is a problem if we in this House cannot follow just a little of what I say when I talk about other solutions that we have not tried. I understand that all parties in this Parliament want a peaceful solution. All parties are grieved and disgusted when we are about to bomb and civilian casualties occur. But it is a huge problem if, having been up here for a few minutes now, not only can we see a loft or a tiny spark that there may now be something about that there is something we haven't done yet. Sounds like we've tried everything. If we had tried everything, we would also have brought Kurds at the table of the peace process. If we had tried everything, we might have had another dialogue with Russia and Assad earlier. I don't know. I certainly do not have the answers, I have not at any time claimed that I have the answers. But I have claimed that this subject, this resolution for me, has become an easy one to say no to. The conflict is extremely difficult and complicated, and we have seen similar cases in the past where we have had to engage in a similar conflict and create stability, and there are no easy answers. So if I start rolling up what it takes to resolve a conflict on behalf of diplomacy, then I simply do not know where to start and where to end.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419140242	Sir. Claus Kvist Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419140245	I am sorry that I have expressed myself as I have. Because I'm actually trying to follow your thoughts and see what you want. But to me, it sounds like you're tripping a little bit that the Alternative is tripping... the President: You don't speak directly. ) Sorry, I'm sorry. This conflict is characterised by the fact that it cannot be prevented. It's in full swing. All the talk that dialogue should be set in motion in advance may make sense, but right now the conflict is in full swing. And there it is, then, that I am calling for a road, an example from past times when people have spoken their way out of a bloody conflict that was in full swing. That's what I need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419140324	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419140326	Neither I nor anyone with much greater experience of conflict mediation and reconciliation can speak their way out of a bloody conflict very many times, I think. What I am asking for is that we go back and say, "Hey, did we do something wrong?" Have we acted in wrong ways? Could we have done anything different? If we then realize that yes, maybe it wasn't quite the right thing we tried to do the earlier times we've had these problems, shouldn't we not do exactly the same thing again? And it's not just me saying this. It's soldiers, it's experts. So I am not saying that one should go in and talk oneself out of a bloody conflict with such barbarians. I say that we must create a foundation so that it does not happen again and so that it does not continue.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419140407	Mrs. Mette Bock, Liberal Alliance. Is that a short remark? Yeah, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419140415	Thank you. Now I have heard on several occasions that it has been asked whether guarantees can be given that there will be no civilian casualties by entering this way. I believe that everyone, including the rapporteur, knows that such guarantees cannot be given. But I would like to ask if the alternative can provide guarantees that the strategy that the alternative is supposed to pursue will not mean that there will be civilian casualties which otherwise would not have come.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419140440	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419140443	Just the last curl that wouldn't have come, I can't answer. But there will be guaranteed civilian casualties, terrible murders, terrorist raids, also with the vision of the alternative, for how to tackle issues such as this one? We do not in any way claim that we are resolving the conflict now and here. IS will have advance in some places, will fall back elsewhere in this process that needs to be set in motion. I have not said at any time that the war that is being waged, where civilian losses are being made by the willing coalition, is incomprehensible. I get it. I understand that you go to war and accept civilian casualties. I find it very, very difficult to support it unless there is a plan that we can trust and where there are not 1,600 different groups in a country with very many deputy wars running, where we go in and believe that by bombing one party we can ensure peace and stability afterwards. So, yes, there will be civilian losses, also in the way the alternative will resolve the conflict.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419140543	Mrs. Mette Bock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419140547	Then I have to ask as a follow-up: does the alternative have a plan for what is going to happen? And does the alternative have a plan for who Denmark is going to get to sit on a table? I have heard the rapporteur say that we will probably not get the IS to sit around a table because they act in a different way than they normally do in politics. But does the alternative have a plan for what Denmark must do to get who to sit around a negotiating table that is different from the attempts that have been made and are constantly being made to put political and diplomatic action in relation to this crisis?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419140621	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419140624	In addition to the two motions for resolutions we have tabled together with the Enhedslisten, which offers an indication of how we can start this, we stand in the alternative of a policy in which we want to withdraw completely from the coalition. We want to ask NATO to contribute something other than military. We believe that in Denmark we can contribute much more strongly to the international community, much stronger to peace and security, also nationally, by contributing something completely different humanitarian aid, reconstruction of local areas, peace mediation, conflict resolution. We believe that as a very, very small state we can. We're a small state. We have nothing to say. That is why I am so sorry when we simply sign up for it instead of saying: the fact that we have nothing to say with weapons, we can say in a different way where it works much better. I think the United States will actually listen to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419140707	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it is Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419140719	I am proud that Denmark will take part in this action. I am proud that we are sending F-16s to help fight Islamic State. I mean, it's the right thing to do. Many people have dreams of dialogue and peaceful means, and it would of course also be nice if it were possible to have a sensible talk with the Islamic State and get them to behave properly. It's just that it's not possible. It has been shown that they are cynical and brutal and dangerous and that they are not just dangerous to their neighbours in the Middle East; they are also dangerous to us. They are also attacking in Europe. They hate the West, they hate us, and it's not something we can talk to them about. It's been tried. Should we then turn our backs and leave them alone and hope that it will pass and that we can change some socio-economic factors so that they may not hate the West in 50 years' time and commit terrorist attacks against Western countries and Western citizens? No, I don't think so. I think that we should do what we can to actively combat them, to combat their having a sanctuary in the Middle East from which they can send their terrorists against us. I think we should back our traditional allies who want to take that fight now. I think we should show the new style that Denmark has shown after the Cold War, where we actually dare to make a difference in the world. We dare to back up our allies and be there where it's difficult and where it's dangerous. We should not do as we did during the Cold War, where we plunge our necks and are free to see other people defend our security and security. We ourselves must help to make Denmark safer, and we make Denmark safer by fighting the possibility of establishing a territory in the Middle East where they can commit their atrocities in peace and quiet and send their terrorists against us. So I am proud that the Danish People's Party will vote in favour of the resolution. I am proud that Denmark will take an active part in the fight against Islamic State, for this makes Denmark safer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419141007	There are brief comments now, and the first is from Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419141018	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank Marie Krarup for taking the floor and, as the first of those who are behind this proposal, actually presented her point of view to the people, to the soldiers who are to be sent, and to the opportunity for us to ask questions and to have a discussion. I think that is worth all the honour, unlike the hooves that I was using a non-parliamentary expression • representatives of parties who dare not go to the platform. So thank you for that. Next, I would like to ask whether Marie Krarup would also like to look a little critically at the past of the Danish People's Party. Well, it almost sounds like the fight against Islamic State is something new that we have to embark on now. After all, 11⁄2 years ago, there was a proposal in the Danish Parliament from the Enhedslisten to help arm the Kurds to precisely fight Islamic State and save the Yazids, save the Christians, save the other groups who were subjected to persecution. The Danish People's Party voted against it. Why is it that you are so interested in fighting Islamic State?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419141123	Here you go, Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419141126	Sounds like sir. Søren Søndergaard was not present in the Chamber at first reading and has not read the newspaper and has not watched TV and has not heard the radio in the last few weeks since Mr. Søren Søndergaard has not discovered that many of those present in this Chamber have participated very actively and have expressed their views very clearly in relation to B 108. So there is at least some story you could look at instead of making accusations that you are not putting your point of view forward. With regard to arming the Kurds and so on, that is the motion for a resolution, I believe that this is another situation we are facing today. Now it is a coalition that wants our participation, where there is a plan in which we can form part and where we ourselves can manage development more effectively, as much as we can now, instead of leaving arms and thus reducing controls, leaving arms to other groups. So I think that is another situation we are facing today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419141227	Sir. Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419141230	First of all, we have the respect for the Folketing, which states that when there are more than 60 questions, when there have been several debates in the Defence Committee, it is clear that there is a new situation which we naturally expect everyone to deal with. Otherwise, of course, we have put questions to the Minister without taking those answers seriously. That is why, of course, we need to discuss, among other things. the answers that have come and they have not been discussed before. In relation to what happened with the Islamic State, I would like to say whether Marie Krarup seriously believes that one can fight Islamic State without people on land. Do you really believe that the Islamic State can be defeated without people on land? And what are they going to fight Islamic State with? F-16s? Or do they need weapons to fight them? And when will the Danish People's Party contribute to giving the people on earth the opportunity to fight against Islamic State?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419141318	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419141321	Well, there's a collaboration with units on the ground. And that's what we got this confidential briefing about, and that's what Enhedslisten is fully informed about how to do. So there is. And, of course, it is true that we cannot only fight the Islamic State from the air. It would be nice if that were possible, but it is necessary to cooperate with certain groups.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419141343	Then it's Mrs. Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419141347	I would like to start by saying that I do not believe the Enhedslisten or anyone else in this Chamber is fully informed of what groups are to cooperate with. It is quite clear that neither the Minister for Defence nor the Minister for Foreign Affairs have wanted to be able to name the groups with which cooperation is to take place. And that is why I would also like to hear from Mrs Marie Krarup about how safe the Danish People's Party is actually entering this alliance, which among other things. count partners such as Turkey and Saudi Arabia. I mean, wasn't it an idea if it was about fighting IS? And I certainly think we should; I certainly think we should fight the IS. But was it not an idea to take more offensive action and ensure that the massive oil sales that IS can now drive across borders in Turkey are closed down, that is to say, that it is stopped and that there really is a plug in the funding that comes from Saudi princes who are, like, free to run? In other words, do we not have to take a critical stand against some of the coalition partners if we are to be able to fight the IS and ensure that both the funding for oil sales and what comes into their hands are closed?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419141457	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419141459	Firstly, you cannot know a hundred percent in advance, but an attempt is being made to find out which groups you can work with. And a great attempt is being made, and Enhedslisten is informed about this. The Enhedslisten has received a lot of information about what is confidential and we cannot pass on in this Chamber. Secondly, an attempt is also being made to curb oil sales. That's just part of the plan. Thirdly, the Islamic State is the enemy. It is the Islamic State that must be defeated, and if there are some other bandits who would also like to help fight them, then I do not think we should prevent them from doing so. It may well be that we do not think they are the best children in the world, but, as I also said at first reading, during World War II the Americans and the English fought with Stalin to fight Hitler. This is sometimes the case, that is to say, you have to fight with some people you don't like, in order to combat the greatest threat and the greatest danger. It is something similar that we must do today in order to eliminate Islamic State in the long term.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419141607	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419141610	I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the Danish People's Party is safe and can vouch for the groups that Danish soldiers and F-16 aircraft will be supporting in Syria too, because we know, as the case now is, that among other things. Turkey supports extremist Islamist groups inside Syria. Is the rapporteur confident that it will not be the case that Denmark will support just such groups?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419141639	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419141641	No, I'm not comfortable with, and I can't vouch for those groups. Of course I can't. It would be crazy of me if I stood there and said that I was sure that they always behaved properly. But I know that they will fight Islamic State, and that is what this is about. It is about fighting Islamic State because the Islamic State poses a threat to us. And then there we can fight with some who are not always like ourselves who are not God's best children. But it is a necessity to combat what is the greatest evil and the greatest danger, and it is currently the Islamic State. This may change; in the longer term, other groups may arise. Try to think of the Taliban, who at one time was allied with the United States and later goes and becomes their enemy. That's the course of history. But that should not exclude us from fighting what is the greatest threat here and now.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419141738	Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419141748	Thank you. It is true that things can change not only in the long term but also in the short term. Yesterday one could hear one, I think, very interesting feature on the radio where there was an expert who said that the al-Nusra front is actually worse than the Islamic State. The Al-Nusra Front does not have a mandate to go to war with. It's only Islamic State. Is the rapporteur not afraid that the situation might be the same as in Afghanistan, where the Taliban were, as it were, turned into the people to be overcome and said that if the Taliban were overcome, the problem of terrorism would also have been solved? However, it turned out that it was deeply naive because the Taliban were also in many other places and because there were other groupings. In other words, you don't fight that terrorist threat, and you don't fight Islamism by waging a traditional war against a single party in Syria at the moment. It is a far, far broader perspective that needs to be addressed. Following on from that, I would like to ask: the rapporteur says that they hate us. Has the rapporteur thought that we have been waging war in that region for about 15 years now, and they do not hate us any less, they actually hate us more and more after so many years of war? Maybe there's a reason for that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419141912	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419141915	Do we support the Al-Nusra Front? I am told that they are not part of those whom we support. But I would say that, in the long term, we cannot predict in any way how the situation develops. That is true, and there is the example of Al-Qaeda and the Taliban very well. But should that prevent us from defending ourselves against a threat? Well, if that were the case, then the Islamic State would have won. Then we might as well give up, and I don't think we should. Of course we must fight them, but that is not the same as the fact that there will never be a new threat. The Middle East is an unstable area and Islamic ideology is anti-Western. It will certainly remain a problem for a very, very long time yet. So there is no guarantee that there will be peaceful, paradise development. There is not, but we can help fight those who are actively threatening us today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419142030	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419142034	What I am trying to say is that we have now been running the strategy that the rapporteur is talking about, at least for the last 15 years and also for longer. But it is at least the last 15 years and it has not helped. On the contrary, it has become worse and worse. And no, we're not with the al-Nusra front, and we're not fighting them either. We have no mandate to go to war against the al-Nusra front, but only against the Islamic State, and if they are worse, isn't that a problem? When I say that, it's for arresting that comparison with World War II and Hitler, Churchill and Stalin. It just doesn't hold. There was a clear enemy image back then. You had some states that were at war with each other, and you could sort of maneuver in a logical way. It is not possible to maneuver in the same way here, because you do not know who is friend and who is enemy, who is against and who is with. Therefore, this presents some completely different challenges than World War II, and therefore the comparison simply does not last.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419142133	It is true that it has become much more incalculable because these are rebel groups and not nation states that are at war with each other. But I now believe that the enemy is reasonably clearly defined. It is the Islamic State, it is the terrorist organisation that calls itself the Islamic State, which is the enemy that we must defeat. And then the strategy hasn't failed for the last 15 years, if what we're thinking about and that's my interpretation... is that we've been in wars to make Denmark a safe place. It is true that the strategy of nation building has not worked and that it has been a mistake from day one, but to combat threats directed at the West, threats coming from the Middle East, has actually worked.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419142215	Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419142221	Thank you. In fact, I'd like to continue a little along the path that Mr. Holger K. Nielsen started. Now I understand that the Nusra front is certainly not one of the groups we support. It would then be very nice to know what kind of groups we support, because I think that a certain amount of value relativism is sneaking into the rapporteur's speech when the rapporteur says that we must fight Islamic State when we know that some of the other groups down there are nurtured by exactly the same ideology, i.e. some of the Shiamuslim terrorist organisations are nurtured by exactly the same ideology as the Islamic State. What, then, is it that one can only defend that we have to send soldiers and equipment there to fight the Islamic State, to ally us with those who are just as bad? What is the reason for this? It cannot always be the case that just because you fight evil, those who fight evil become good. I would like to hear what the rapporteur thinks is the precise ideological difference between the ideology that carries the Islamic State and the one that carries some of the organisations we are now going to be able to support.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419142333	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419142335	The difference is they're pointing a threat at us. There are many ugly people in the world. There are many nasty organizations, many nasty attitudes, but we don't send out F16 planes everywhere, we don't bomb the Grim High Mosque either. It is not the case that just because you have a nasty ideology, you have to have a bomb in your head, but there are some who are actively threatening us and there are some who have actively committed terrorist attacks in the West and are threatening us. They must be bombed, and that is the difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419142407	Sir. Dolphin.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419142409	So the vision of this conflict isn't about there being a civilian population down there that we have to take into account. This is all about a terrorist threat vis-à-vis Denmark, which I assume the rapporteur has no guarantee whatsoever that it will be different from the fact that we are bombing down there. It is true that the activist foreign policy we have pursued has not resulted in the threat of terrorism against Denmark being reduced. But am I just supposed to understand that this is solely for the safety of Denmark? This has nothing to do with how we ensure stable development in the Middle East.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419142443	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419142445	The organization to which our F-16 aircraft belongs is called Defense, the Danish Defense. That is what it says, because the Danish defence must defend Denmark, that is. remove threats to Denmark. Our F-16 aircraft are not part of an organization called the world's military or the world's peace forces. No, because we have long since realised that we cannot achieve this, but we can defend Denmark in such a way that we can help eliminate threats to Denmark. It is a distinguished task, and I am proud that our F-16 aircraft will participate in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419142524	Then it's mr. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419142528	Now I've been allowed to speak a lot, so I'll be very brief. I'm just gonna start by regretting something. I have been reminded that in my long speech I made it sound as if it were only a military effort that would be included in this resolution which is being voted through today. It was by no means my opinion that I tried to be very nuanced and actually also highlight the good things. So I would say that other solutions from the government and from those who support it are so much being offered. We're just saying that the proportions are high. I would like to ask the rapporteur: is it the rapporteur's expectation that the threat of terrorism in relation to Denmark, after we say yes to this resolution, will be increased or reduced?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419142606	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419142609	My expectation is that in the short term it will be increased and reduced in the long term when we talk about the threat of terrorism from the Islamic State. I cannot rule out the possibility that other terrorist threats will arise. Of course, you cannot know anything about that. But in the short term, I think we will see an increase because the Islamic State will be interested in hitting us now when we participate actively. In the long term, I hope that this is why I am voting in favour of our participation in the event that it will be reduced because, hopefully, we will have the opportunity of defeating the Islamic State to create an Helmet in the Middle East where they can train and send out terrorists.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419142643	Here you go, sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419142646	Is it the rapporteur's expectation that we should then bomb the new places or go into military conflicts there? I know that this is a thoughtful situation, but although it may help locally to bomb IS, can we not deny that in the long term there will be other terrorist organisations that will then pose the same threat to Denmark, and does the rapporteur believe that we will have to simply to safeguard Denmark's security to bomb the places where such threats occur locally in order that it does not spread?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419142710	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419142713	At the moment a new threat arises against Denmark from somewhere else, so yes, of course. Well, we have a defence of defending Denmark, so if there is a threat, we must of course try to eliminate it by the means we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419142728	Then it's mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419142732	When Enhedslisten wants to support the Kurds and give them weapons, it is precisely so that they can help fight the threat that is against Denmark. It rejected the Danish People's Party. Now Mrs Marie Krarup is standing here and saying that she will give air support to the Devil himself inside Syria, and then I would just like to hear from the Danish People's Party whether Mrs Marie Krarup can rule out the fact that there are Islamist groups that will get Danish air support inside Syria?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419142802	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419142804	No, I don't think we can rule that out. An attempt is being made to find out which groups it is wise and good to support, and that is confidential information that we cannot pass on. But I do not want to rule out the possibility of making mistakes, so that we can also support someone whom we will regret afterwards. Such is war now and then, that sometimes it can be difficult to make the right decisions because you usually do not have full insight and have all the time in the world to be absolutely sure what to do. So it would be foolish of me to stand and say that there can be no mistakes, because of course there can be mistakes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419142845	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419142847	I would like to thank Mrs Krarup for her honesty. Because it is true that with the information we have, none of us here in the Danish Parliament can rule out Denmark having to give air support to Islamist groups. Then I would just like to hear the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party on something. Now that we have seen that groups have changed from one day to the next in Syria, can Mrs Marie Krarup say so clearly that she can give an assurance to the Danish people that those groups that are now going to be supported are going to have support that the Danish People's Party is prepared to give to Islamist groups that cannot pose a threat to Denmark in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419142930	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419142932	No, that is exactly what I have been saying several times here, namely that there are no guarantees for a peaceful future. The rapporteur must wait until the rapporteur arrives in the Garden of Paradise, because there is peace there. But until then, we have to live with the fact that there are no guarantees. But if we do not fight Islamic State, I think there is a guarantee that we will experience many terrorist attacks and many abuses, and I think the Enhedslisten should take a little more interest in that, instead of wanting to act only when you have tens of thousands of guarantees for one and the other. When we send F-16s, there is at least a greater part we have control over than if we simply armed different groups in the Middle East.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419143022	Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen for the time being the last brief remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419143027	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. I shall just try to understand how the rapporteur views the strategy of this war, and that is on the basis of the answer given by the rapporteur just now. Nikolaj Villumsen. Should I understand that the rapporteur sees the strategy in such a way that, in this war, which is unfortunately being adopted, we should not support and cooperate with Islamist groups, but only with non-Islamist groups, so that, if we come to support or cooperate with an Islamist group, it is a mistake?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419143102	I would very much like to see cooperation only with democratic and Western-oriented groups. I am just so realistic that I know that there are not very many of them in the Middle East. That is why I say that it may well be that we will support those who will cause us problems in the future. But one thing is certain, and that is that the worst group down there is Islamic State, and if we do not do what we can to defeat them, they pose a threat to us, and that is why we have to do what we can to combat them with a F-16 bomb campaign and with cooperation with groups on the ground. We would prefer them all to be Western-oriented groups, but it may be that there are some who are not exactly like us. I don't think anyone can guarantee that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419143203	Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419143204	Thank you for recognizing this, but the truth is that we cannot avoid cooperating with Islamist groups, as the situation is down there. These are groups which have exactly as inflamed a relationship with human rights and how to treat other people as does the Islamic State. But what I understand from the rapporteur is that it does not really matter how the Islamist groups treat other people who live in Iraq as long as they do not threaten us. Is it true that this is the logic behind the Danish People's Party's support for this warfare?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419143244	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419143246	As I said before, our F-16 aircraft is part of an organisation called the Danish defence, which means that they must defend Denmark. That is their task. It's not called the Human Rights Mission. The Danish defence is not built to introduce human rights all over the world. It is designed to defend Denmark so that we can have peace and freedom etc. At home. That's the job they're doing. And if that sometimes means that we have to work with some people who are not exactly the same as ourselves, perhaps that is what we have to do. The main thing is to create peace in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419143330	Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. Then we move forward in the rapporteur's line, and that will be the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mrs Mette Bock. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419143347	Thank you. Is it a good decision to go to war? No, it's never a good decision to go to war. However, this may be the least minor decision, and when the Liberal Alliance backs B 108, it is primarily for two reasons, and the two reasons are both reasons for protection. One reason is that there is a civilian population in these areas which are currently subjected to horrible attacks, which they have no chance of defending themselves against, and there we in the Liberal Alliance believe that the international community has a duty to go in and help protect and defend this civilian population. The second safeguard argument is that if you do not try to encapsulate IS, there will be a threat, not only against Europe, but also against Denmark. We do not believe that war can lead to lasting peace and the building of new democratic societies. We do not believe that we can do that, but there they have to grab hold of themselves in these areas and do what they think is right. The provisions of international law on the self-determination of peoples are something on which we are very much building it. So there are two arguments and both are defence arguments, in other words to protect the civilian population from abuse and to protect Europe and Denmark from a threat that will increase if we do not try to do something. Can we then have complete guarantees against civilian casualties? No, we can't. Can we have a complete guarantee of who we are working with? No, we can't. But we can do our best, and we will keep a close eye on that. We will try to do everything we can to minimise losses that we do not want, but guarantee against them we cannot. We must take three steps, and in fact we are already doing so, namely the political, humanitarian and, unfortunately, the military too. And then I actually think that, even though we have this discussion, and even though we have disagreements, and this is a legitimate disagreement, because unfortunately we cannot go into a laboratory and check whether it is one or the other track that will lead to the best solution in the long term... we hope that together, when we send out the Danish soldiers, we can give full support to them and their families. They are directly involved, they are the ones on the front, and they serve a cause that we think is right. But, as I said, war is never a good solution, but war can be the least minor solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419143652	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments and the first is from Mrs Flyvholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419143658	Thank you very much. When you take the decision to send Danish soldiers to war, something is absolutely crucial here about what the consequences will be and, as the rapporteur also says, what the consequences will be for the civilians on the ground in Iraq and Syria. I would like to ask the rapporteur a little more about civilian losses. It is the case that about 12,000 bombs have been bombed in Iraq and Syria in the coalition against the IS. It's buildings, people, everything that's been bombed there. So far, the coalition has admitted 21 civilian casualties. Does the rapporteur think it is realistic that with so many bombings only about 21 civilians have been killed in Iraq and Syria?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419143752	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419143755	I simply have no preconditions for assessing it. I think that is a very low figure. I would also think that it is very difficult to determine exactly how many civilian losses are involved. But the fact that there have been civilian casualties, I have no doubt.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419143808	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419143811	It is precisely in relation to that that I can say that the statistics from Afghanistan were that one civilian died for about one in ten bombs they threw. There are many experts who point to the fact that it is expected that it is one of the same things that is the case here. This means that, unfortunately, more than 1,000 civilians have been killed. Does the rapporteur find it satisfactory that Denmark is going to war with a coalition that does not fully and openly disclose the consequences for civilians and does so little as is now the case to investigate what the consequences for civilians are?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419143844	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419143847	It may well be that Mrs Eva Flyvholm has a deeper insight than I do, but I am not in a position to say that what is being enlightened is incorrect either. I simply have no preconditions for this. But what I think the parties that do not support around B 108 actually owe to explain is whether it is a good decision that you will not help to protect the civilian population who are actually being subjected to these abuses, which I think we all agree are absolutely horrible. So it is, after all, a question of choosing between pestilence and cholera, of making the choice which one thinks is the least poor in the situation in question. I have to say that there are parties which do not believe that the decision taken today is the right one. I would hope that the parties that are then against it could explain why it is better for the civilian population, who are being subjected to the abuses, to continue to be subjected to these abuses than to try to protect them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419143950	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419143954	After all, we are proposing precisely to strengthen local democratic forces so that they can protect the civilian population. So that is our answer to Mrs Mette Bock. But what I would like to hear from the Liberal Alliance is: What about Assad? In other words, we have a situation in which we can see the answers that have come to the Folketing that it cannot be ruled out in any way that the Danish aerial bombardments in Syria will help to pave the way for Assad or other extreme Islamist groups to gain control over the areas from which ISIL may be chased away. So, I assume that we agree that Assad has committed more violent crimes against the people of Syria than ISIL has. So what assurance does the Liberal Alliance really have that exactly what you are going to vote for here does not lead to the civilian population in these areas continuing to be brutally oppressed, just as they are being oppressed right now by ISIL?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419144052	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419144054	We have no guarantee or assurance of that at all. But we believe that what we choose to do here is the least minor solution in relation to it. And that is quite right, as Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen points out here that there are some absurdities in that, on the one hand, we want to fight Assad, who is a huge bandit and a huge criminal, and, on the other hand, we risk standing shoulder to shoulder with Assad on some stretches. We'll look into that openly. We know that's the way it is. I have seen the resolutions that lie in relation to what could be done instead of making a B 108. But while we are waiting for the people who are now going to be involved in the peace process to go ahead and try to see what they can do to bring about more stability in the region, there will be attacks on the civilian population. And our best guess, and it's a guess, is that while we're waiting for it, you're gonna experience bigger civilian losses than if we go in and also use the military trail in an attempt to protect the civilian population.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419144201	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419144203	After all, the Enhedslisten has previously proposed that exactly the democratic groups in Syria should have support from Denmark with weapons shipments. The Liberal Alliance voted against this at the time. But I think that some of what is the difference between the Enhedslisten and the Liberal Alliance here is that we on the Enhedslisten actually think it is crucial who is on earth. Well, we don't think that Denmark should just act in an empty room without knowing what's gonna happen. In fact, we believe that we have a responsibility towards the civilian people in Syria. That is why we are saying that we must support only local democratic forces so that we do not become Assad; so that we do not become extreme Islamists. Why is it that the Liberal Alliance does not take that approach? Why open up that Denmark can provide military support for some very, very extreme forces?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419144249	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419144251	I do not think we are opening up to that either. And just as it may be difficult or impossible to rule out the fact that we are not going to cooperate with some with whom it turns out that we have not really wanted to cooperate at all, I still need to see evidence that the groups with which Enhedslisten recommends that we cooperate as democratic groups are democratic groups which do not also have elements in them with which even Enhedslisten does not wish to cooperate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419144322	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419144327	I would like to ask the Liberal Alliance rapporteur about the issue of prisoners, and if the Liberal Alliance rapporteur is satisfied with the answers we have received, what guidelines apply to the handling of prisoners that may be taken by Danish soldiers in this operation. We know that it is responsible both in general but also individually for the individual soldiers, so the soldiers to be deployed have a very strong interest in the fact that the guidelines are absolutely crystal clear. That's why I just want to know if the Liberal Alliance is satisfied with those guidelines.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419144401	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419144404	In other words, I am confident that where we are, we are following the international guidelines on how to deal with prisoners of war.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419144412	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419144415	That's not what I asked. I did not ask whether the Liberal Alliance trusted, but I asked whether it was satisfied with the rules that we have been informed in the Folketing. In other words, it is clear, among other things, that in exceptional circumstances prisoners can be extradited to Iraq, which is a notorious torture country. Are you satisfied with that? Are you satisfied with the setup that has been made in relation to the fact that it is not responsible for the soldiers we send out?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419144450	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419144453	I'm sorry, sir. Søren Søndergaard is not satisfied with the answer. But I have no evidence at all for anything other than to believe that we in Denmark will do everything we can to comply with international rules. I'm sorry, but I can't give you a better answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419144510	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419144514	I can hear that Mrs Mette Bock is very concerned about the civilian population, and I understand that, but I do not quite understand that she is not a little more aware that the consequence of this will be that Assad will be strengthened. It is quite obvious that you go in and strengthen Assad in Syria. Just one example: if we manage to free an area like Raqqa, who will get power afterwards? It would be Assad. And Assad is responsible for far, far more crimes, far, far more deaths, far, far more refugees than any other. He's the reason for all this. The Islamic State came from Iraq at the time, was part of the Iraq War, but grew great in the fight against Assad. It was the fight against Assad that made IS as dangerous as it was in Syria. If we strengthen Assad, there will still be a recruiting basis for the Islamic State, they will still be able to grow away.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419144626	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419144629	What I'm saying now isn't meant to be polemical, but if you're going to follow mr. Holger K. Nielsen's thinking in this will mean that we must strengthen IS because they are interested in fighting Assad.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419144640	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419144644	Listen: In the beginning, the Islamic State was in fact one of the groupings that Denmark was not very opposed to. It was part of the opposition to Assad. Then it was found that the Islamic State was actually much worse than Al-Qaeda when the Islamic State began its appearance in the military field. Okay. But what we just need to have in mind is that the reason for this is Assad and his criminal regime, and that what is happening here is that we strengthen it and that means that we have not solved much, even if we have defeated the Islamic State.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419144726	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419144729	I understand, sir. Holger K. Nielsen's point in that. The problem is that it would be simple if it were a war as in the old days, when it was two nations fighting against each other and where one had a front and then there were some soldiers running against each other. It's not like that. We have to face up to the fact that what is happening today is that we have Assad, who is a huge criminal, and then we have the Islamic State, which poses a huge threat, which Assad also poses, not only to the civilian population, that is, the local civilian population, but also to Europe and Denmark. That is why we need to use both the diplomatic, humanitarian and military tracks, knowing that whatever we do, we are looking into a space where we just cannot get guarantees against civilian losses or against us doing something that we had not foreseen when we said yes to this resolution. But we believe in the Liberal Alliance that this is the least we can do, as complicated as the situation now is.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419144828	Sir. René Gade, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419144832	As always, I see Mrs Mette Bock's speech as both nuanced and not least very realistic and pragmatic and we can agree to disagree. However, I also think that we need to deal with what we really need to fight. It's IS, this resolution will fight, and I think it's important to know your enemy. So, although this is a difficult question, I would like to hear: what are the rapporteur's thoughts or thoughts about what creates a terrorist in IS? What is it that fosters IS? Is this something local? Is that something you can be affected by when you're somewhere else in the world? What is it that, from the point of view of the rapporteur, suddenly joins something as crazy as the IS?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419144915	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419144918	There are very, very many people who are currently researching that, and there are a lot of different answers. I also believe that there are actually a great many different answers. There is a difference between why you are recruited for IS if you are and live in the local area, and if you are a boy who grows up in Aarhus in an ordinary Danish family. So no clear explanation can be given of what it is that recruits and what it is that makes IS get bigger in these years. But I think we need to face up to the fact that there is a broad spectrum set of explanations. And I'd like to admit that although I think that the alternative is something loose in the codes on this issue and just want to do the good thing, we all really want to do that, if you don't go to the root of this and find out too, but not only to do something about war, poverty, lack of democracy and all the other things, so try to look at the prerequisites that also contribute to the development of terrorists, we don't use the whole palette of tools that we need, and of course we have to do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419145028	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419145031	I am thinking of it precisely because it is so difficult to define what it is that creates them. We have our ideas, and there may be others who have their ideas. Then I think it must be incredibly difficult to say yes to sending Danish soldiers. I have also heard that it is incredibly difficult for everyone to send Danish soldiers to do this, so send them off with a task that has no clearly defined goal other than to destroy IS from the surface of the earth. We can't put any end date on it. In fact, we demand that in certain cross-border cases they fire at civilians in the service of a higher cause, because at the same time they take terrorists into account. Well, can the Liberal Alliance vouch for sending our soldiers on that mission?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419145108	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419145112	We can do that. And I'm actually gonna have to say that after that Mr. René Gade has been speaking for a very long time today, so I also think that the alternative and the other parties, who say no to B 108, are taking on a huge responsibility in terms of how this is going to develop. But, as I said, unfortunately, we can't send things to the lab and do some experiments. We need to take the decisions that we think are the least poor, as complicated as the situation is.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419145138	Sir. Peder Hvelplund, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419145143	Thank you. I would like to address the answer that Mrs Mette Bock gave to Mr Bock. Søren Søndergaard on the subject of detention of prisoners. There the rapporteur says that she cannot really get closer to it. I simply do not think that is good enough. Well, we sit here as legislators and have to send Danish soldiers, and when they come down there, the reality becomes concrete. It's not enough to stand there and say, "Well, I'm sure we'll find out." They may find themselves in a situation where they take prisoners. And there we have to know what is going to happen to those prisoners, too, in relation to the answers that have come to the committee. After all, it is said that there may be a risk that you may have to hand them over to the Iraqi authorities and thus have no assurance that they will not be subjected to torture or execution. We are going to be able to face a situation which Amnesty and DIGNITY directly warn us against and say may be a violation of the Geneva Convention and the Convention on Human Rights. The soldiers we are sending will surely have to have a clear answer from us as to what basis they stand on. What are they supposed to do? Can we guarantee that there is a clear basis for this? And can the Liberal Alliance guarantee that there is a clear basis for this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419145250	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419145253	Now we are once again being called for guarantees. There are no guarantees in war. We must live up to the international rules on prisoner management. That is what has been set aside and the goal of our participation in war. On the other hand, I would like to oppose it if you think that when we go to war, we can predict everything and that responsible parliaments can manage the specific situation in the specific place of those involved. We cannot do that, and that is why we have an international set of rules. It is a form of constitution, one might say, in relation to how the parties should do things in a war. But that war is unpredictable, I think we can all agree, and that is why we have to stick to the fact that the reason why we have an international set of rules is that it should be a paradigm, that should be the norm for treating prisoners who have been taken in war situations.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419145354	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419145357	But Amnesty and DIGNITY clearly warn against this and say that it can be a consequence that we are breaking the convention. Is it really the case that the Danish Parliament is sending soldiers with that message: you are allowed to break the convention, because that is what is happening in war? Could the message from Parliament not be that, of course, the conventions must be observed and, of course, we are establishing a set of rules that can guarantee that we will not break them?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419145418	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419145420	The message, then, is that we must abide by the international rules that are in favour of this. It is a perfectly clear message that this should be the case. And I do not think that the Danish soldiers we send have any reason to doubt that is what has been set aside for the Danish war participation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419145438	Sir. Finn Sørensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419145443	Thank you. I appreciate the rapporteur's recognition that the war now being waged could lead to the strengthening of Assad, but it is true that, on the other hand, it could lead to the strengthening of ISIL. The rapporteur is also realistic enough to recognise that bombardments cannot fail to lead to civilian casualties, which in turn will strengthen ISIL, because what they make a great deal of a living is to point to the evil Western powers throwing fire from the sky. The rapporteur does not recognise this as clearly as Mrs Krarup does, but I nevertheless believe that the rapporteur recognizes that there is a great danger of working with and supporting other extremist groups who are actually acting as devious and inhumane as ISIL does. And more bombings will lead to more refugees. So will the rapporteur not, as I think he is doing fairly honestly, state that there is no plan for this war? There's no plan for what's gonna happen after that. There's no plan for who we're going to work with. That is to say, there's a pretty high probability that this war will lead to far greater accidents than what we're seeing today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419145553	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419145556	It may sound like listening to the debate we have today, as if things were completely planless: we throw some soldiers down there, we drop some bombs without thinking about where we throw them, and then we see what happens. It's not like that. It's not like that. After all, a plan is being made for how to put in and what to do. It is true that there is no plan for the day when we get to the point that we have got somebody to sit around a table and make a peace settlement, and for what is to happen further on the day when there is control of how IS develops etc. But it's for me to see another lead. It is quite true that, alongside the military trail, there is a political clue, and there we should at least learn from some of the things we have experienced in the past, namely that if we do not know what we are doing on the day when we can say that the smoke has settled, it is difficult. But having said that, I would also like to say that even if you are making detailed plans in this area, it can be really, really difficult to predict whether they are realistic on the day you get there.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419145701	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419145705	I therefore feel that if we are to send Danish soldiers to war, there must be a clear plan for what the purpose is and where to go with it. I believe that the vast majority of the population fully agree that this should be the case. And when we look at the last 15 years of warfare, it's the fourth time that we can do that... that we join a war that the Americans have set in motion, but where they want our participation and where there is no plan. When's enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419145740	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419145744	I repeat: it is not because there is no plan. The reason why the Danes are making this contribution to the international coalition is, after all, a desire to fight the IS. That is the purpose of the whole thing. And I actually think that Enhedslisten and the other parties that do not support this proposal owe it to them to present their plan. What will happen to the civilian population if the proposals put on the table by the Enhedslisten and the other parties voting against are followed? What's the long-term plan? And what motive did the parties behind the B 108 have to have to do this if we thought that would only lead to a deterioration of the situation? We certainly do not have a motive for supporting something that would lead to a deterioration in the situation. But we are struggling desperately to find the least poor solution so that we can get a better grip on what is happening.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419145837	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. The next is the Social Democrats' rapporteur, sir. Nick Hækkerup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419145855	As was said at first reading, the Social Democrats support the resolution before us, just as we support the other initiatives, civilians like others, to combat ISIL. The fundamental basis for this position is that ISIL stands for a religiously based ideology, which contains this totalitarian interpretation of Islam, and that their ultimate goal is to create a caliphate, that is, to carry out a conquest of the world by all means. It must also be said that we have seen almost all the means presented in the conflict as it has developed so far: abuse, mass executions, the persecution of civilians and systematic violations of human rights, just to mention some of them. The truth is that, in this way, what the Islamic State represents is to compare with the other great totalitarian ideologies, i.e. Nazism, Fascism and Communism, which accept violence and genocide as a means of reaching a utopian society. We in the Social Democratic Party have always fought against this. This is totally unacceptable. If we look back a little in history, we can see that during the run-up to the Second World War, social democrats in Germany died simply because they were social democrats because there was a Nazi system that used terror, violence and executions as means. The same has been true of the Fascists, who obviously did not want to recognise general democratic principles, and we have also seen it playing out for the open carpet in the former Communist countries. That's why this is just a situation where there's no room for us to shake our hand. This is a situation in which, regardless of the complexity of the situation and the complexity of the situation, we have to say that we have to fight here, that we have to intervene with the necessary means, including military means. That is why we support the proposal as it stands, and that is why we support Denmark's continuing to be very active in the fight against the Islamic State.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419150150	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Holger K. Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419150158	After all, we agree that the Islamic State is a brutal movement and that there is also some ideological foundation behind it, even though it is in fact some old Saddam Hussein officers who have built it up. And that's where I think the Socialists are going a little wrong. Because what is it? After all, an organisation has been built up that lives on the frustration of many Sunni Muslims in the region, particularly because of the repression in Iraq by the Shia and also because of the lack of prospects for the future in Syria. That's why it's a hole in the head to compare with World War II and compare with the 1930s, as Mr. Nick Hækkerup does it. After all, this is a completely different complex situation where you come in and become part of a civil war in Syria and Iraq. And I think Mr. Nick Hækkerup, that it will improve the prospects for a peaceful solution, that we in the West intervene there? Is the experience of that not so bad that Mr. Nick Hækkerup just had to think a little bit? Iraq in 2003 was against the Social Democrats. Aren't you afraid that the same thing will happen here?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419150317	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419150319	You could do that parade number with you answering what you have to answer. We can also try to take the debate as it really should be taken in this case out of respect for the questioner. I recognize, and I said so, that this is super complex. But I don't think and I know the questioner well enough to know that he certainly also has the intellectual capacity to rise above the consideration that this is just another random terrorist group. It's not. So it's this kind of Islamism, which is a religiously based ideology, which contains this totalitarian interpretation of Islam, and which has the establishment of this global caliphate as its goal, and which, by the way, contains all these traits that characterise the great totalitarian ideologies. I really think that's a very important point. I think that if you read through what has been written about it, you must also say that this may in fact have been slumbering from when the other great totalitarian ideologies were advancing. And I think that is an extremely important point.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419150435	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419150437	Yes, it is certainly very interesting. But I think it is a completely misguided analysis, as Mr. Nick Hækkerup does it there. I mean, Nazism was, for example. This is not a specific geographical problem which has suddenly arisen and which can be combated by fighting some forces in that area. The truth is that Islamism as such has many forms and is in many different places. It's not just Islamic State. We have mentioned the al-Nusra front, which is also there, and other movements elsewhere. Is it not only completely naive to imagine that one can combat Islamism ■ the ideology that I agree with is terrible ■ by wagering a unilateral war against the Islamic State in Syria, since the movement is also in many other places, and when it may not have so much to do only with Islamism, but is also a simple power policy that we are up against?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419150539	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419150541	I agree that we will not destroy this totalitarian interpretation of Islam alone with the war in Syria and only with the resolution we are considering today. Nevertheless, I think it is a very, very important facet in it. I mean, I really think there's a need to raise this discussion a little bit and ask: what are we fighting for here? In my opinion, then, we are fighting about how our world is to be organized and to look like. What kind of attitudes do we want with regard to people? What kind of attitudes do we want for life? What are the positions we want with regard to the society to be created?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419150618	Sir. Søren Søndergaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419150621	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for taking the floor. One can say that the Islamic State is a product of oppression in Iraq, and then it is a product of Assad, the dictatorship of Assad and the gross treatment of his own people. In other words, if we want to prevent the Islamic State from resurrecting again and again, as it were, we must also remove the basis for them to get recruits. In other words, we must remove the basis for their support in Iraq, the repression, and we must remove the basis for support in Syria, the repression. That is why I ask: who does the rapporteur expect to go in to take over the areas from which we bomb the Islamic State? Now let us imagine that by some magic trick we can remove all the soldiers of the Islamic State from Syria, who will then go in to take over those territories, and how long will it take before we have the Islamic State again?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419150725	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419150727	With all due respect, the question falls in fact somewhere else: exactly what exactly should a future Syria look like, who should be in which areas. This is, of course, part of the peace process which the gods must know is not going as fast as one might wish, but which is still a matter of which there are questions, including whether it should be a federal state or it should be a federation of states, how much independence the Kurdish territories that I know Enhedslisten is extremely interested in should have. So I guess that's where you really have to find the answer to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419150812	Sir. Søren Søndergaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419150815	But you can't wait to give that answer for another time. It sounds like we're fighting Islamic State first, and once we've fought Islamic State, we'll sit down and figure out how to set things up. It's not like that. When the Islamic State gets out of a city, someone else comes in. It may be the al-Nusra front, it may be Assad, it may be some other extremists who are just as bad as the Islamic State, or it may be some more democratic forces. That question is, of course, a question for decision right now, and it is only there that I ask the question again: how do you prevent what is currently being done from strengthening Assad and strengthening Islamic forces and thus simply reproducing the resurrection of the Islamic State in the long term?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419150907	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419150908	It is surely not true, with all due respect to the rapporteur, that the processes have been sidelined. In fact, the processes are proceeding in parallel tracks. There are negotiations going on. You might want them to go faster, but there are currently negotiations going on. So it's not first one and then the other. In fact, in this very complex game, we need to see the different stakes playing out at the same time: civil aid, military action and, of course, the negotiating trail.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419150940	Sir. Peder Hvelplund, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419150943	I would just like to hear the rapporteur's attitude. Now the rapporteur says that this is about combating the Islamic State, and we are in agreement on that. But what is so fundamental that the difference ideologically and historically is between the Islamic State and some of the groups with which we risk being allied? Well, now we have not been able to get any clear indications as to what groups it is. But what criteria have been used to ensure that the forces we will then support are at least better than the Islamic State? After all, there is nothing like this at first hand in relation to how they act in the civil war down there, which indicates that the groups we can support have a fundamentally different view of human beings or democracy than the Islamic State. Could the rapporteur not give some words and explain what these groups are different from the Islamic State?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419151033	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419151035	I have great respect for the way the democratic debate has to play itself at home, but I think that Enhedslisten is committing what we would call a hoax outside this room when they keep saying that we have no idea what kind of groups we are dealing with. Because we are bound by professional secrecy, we cannot tell you what information we have been given in the Defence Committee, and that is why it is being used to cast confusion and create uncertainty to an extent that is not justified.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419151110	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419151112	I'm sorry if that's the way I'm actually doing a pig's ass. I can say that at least I am not aware of what kind of groups it is, and I also find it a little difficult to see from the knowledge I have about the situation in Syria now. It is true that as a layman which groups down there it is exactly as when you are requested as air support somewhere from and you are sitting up in an F-16 plane, you can rely on and believe. I understand that there are some Kurds who are secular and democratic, but what other groupings down there are we supposed to be able to base our military efforts on and support, I have really, really, really hard to see.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419151154	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419151155	I am not sure that there was a question and if there was, I simply did not understand it. However, I still think that there is reason to insist that, in the closed consultation in the Defence Committee, we have had a statement on how to deal with the groups that we will have to support, and we have also been told that this information is confidential. And that's what I mean when I say it's a hoax, that is, when you use the relationship that we can't tell about it, to suspicious it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419151228	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419151231	I would just like to ask the rapporteur if he himself can say that he knows what groups will be about Denmark supporting Iraq and Syria.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419151247	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419151249	Without breaking my confidentiality, I think I have to answer that the answer is partly yes, otherwise the process is not secret.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419151256	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419151258	I think it would be more reassuring to have a clear yes or no. However, in relation to the partial 'yes', is the rapporteur so confident about the groups with which Denmark will cooperate in Syria? Does the rapporteur think that we can vouch for them?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419151319	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419151320	But now the questioner is doing exactly the same trick one more time, namely asking me to give an answer which is contained in some information which is well known to be confidential. Because if I start to move into what it's like to find out what it is for some groups, then I'm starting to move on the edge of our professional secrecy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419151344	Sir. René Gade, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419151347	Now we have been told that the three parties that are opposed to this proposal need to show a plan. The alternative has really tried to get through with there having to be a plan, but it is a plan that is not right at the moment. In political life here in the Folketing can be accepted as a plan because it is simply too long-term. That is what I am hearing, because what should be the first step, and how can this dialogue be initiated? The coalition is already under way, and if the Danish side opts out of military right now, it is not credible. That's the foundation I'm asking from. Well, maybe we disagree on that. I would like to hear the rapporteur's position on the efforts of a majority of parties in the Folketing, with few exceptions, today. How long is this gonna take? Well, what's our time frame? The alternative plan is very, very long-term and there will also be civilian losses as a result of the plan we have presented. But how long will Denmark have to be involved in this conflict to eradicate IS from Earth's surface?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419151450	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419151451	That depends on how intensive we are doing it. But there is no doubt that this will take a long time. And there I would like to arrest it with the fact that it is so often said that there is no plan and that we do not know what we are going to do. Yes, there is such a plan, and what we have to do is break down and defeat ISIL. That is the way it is formulated, and that is why this is all about the fight against ISIL. How is that supposed to happen? Yes, it must be done, and the rapporteur knows it, by five means. Firstly, military and secondly, by taking initiatives to stabilise, including civil reconstruction, of which Denmark is a part and which must be intensified, including, thirdly, to stop the influx of foreign warriors. Fourthly, the funding for ISIL must be cut off and finally, as the fifth element, we must combat ISIL's propaganda. All these elements have to happen and will certainly happen at varying speeds. I myself believe, and this is just my suggestion, that the stabilisation that is needed, which is one of the key elements, will take a long time. Some of the others believe and hope I can go significantly faster.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419151600	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419151602	It is also a really complicated question, so I do not expect to have an answer for months or years either. Nevertheless, I believe that what we are talking about here is local. I agree with the five points, and I think that a great many of them are good, because not only are we talking about military action in this motion for a resolution. I just think that the weighting is biased and that we should make some other decisions and start somewhere else. Having said that, I still miss hearing something about the fact that if we can't put a number of years on how long this is going to take, is it plus 5 years we have to be engaged? In addition, what about all the other places where IS is now? I've recently heard that there are 20,000 people around Africa. I think it was in Nigeria.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419151644	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419151646	But is it not to tighten it up when the rapporteur himself says in his question that he has put forward a plan and continues: I have no idea how long it takes? You have another plan, wouldn't you like to say exactly how long it takes? Well, I have to say that the plan and the goal of breaking down and defeating ISIL go down five paths that I described before. Each of those roads has its own course and its own time of completion etc. and, as I said at the outset, the duration of it will, of course, depend on the intensity, including the speed with which stabilisation will take place. And that depends on how much power we're able to put in it and how fast it's going to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419151729	Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419151732	We know from public answers that Danish air support must be given to the SDF, in other words the Syrian democratic forces. We didn't become a nick smarter than that of the consultations we've had. But that's not what I'm gonna ask. What I want to ask is the peace negotiations. We know that in the peace negotiations that are going on right now, there are plenty of totalitarian people. There is Putin, who sits Assad, who sits the priestly regime from Iran, who sits plenty of totalitarian groups. In the Enhedslisten, our position on the government's proposal is that we do not want to support extreme groups. So I would just like to hear from the Socialists: what security do the Socialists have in order to prevent this bombing campaign in Syria from strengthening some totalitarian forces? It could be extreme Islamists, and it could be Assad.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419151832	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419151833	But in reality we cannot complete this séance in such a way that the rapporteur starts by putting out an untruth and then then says that I should not relate to that, by the way. Of course, I have to deal with that. We were present at the same consultation, and the only thing that prevents me from giving the answer to the question is, of course, that we have some sort of confidentiality here. That is also why the rapporteur knows very well that we have been presented with the way in which the selection of the groups we support takes place, and it is precisely in the selection of the groups that we ensure that the errors that Enhedslisten keeps coming up with do occur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419151912	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419151914	I would just like to hear from the Socialists whether, with the information you have, you can rule out the fact that there are Islamist or other totalitarian organisations that will receive Danish air support.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419151925	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419151926	I really don't think that's what you're asking. I really believe that what you are asking is: can you imagine that in this campaign against ISIL there will be other unsympathetic groups that are gaining ground at that expense? I really think that is the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419151945	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur, and that is the rapporteur on the Radical Left. Martin Lidegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419152100	We'll resume the meeting. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Martin Lidegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419152114	The choice we have to make today is a difficult one, and we in the Radicals feel that we have just as much difficulty in understanding those who very easily vote in favour of this, as those who find it very easy to reject the proposal. I will not go into all kinds of accusations or insinuations about why people choose to vote one or the other, but just briefly explain again why we in Radicals have come to the conclusion that it is right to press the green button. When we look at what has happened in Iraq over the last 11⁄2 years since we started the fight against Daesh, I think it is actually necessary to say that, to a greater extent than any of us could have feared, it has succeeded in helping the civilian Iraqis who have suffered under Daesh and who are still suffering from them in part. We have been freed from 25 000 km2 and several cities where refugees can now return, where mines have been removed and where there is hope of • and, unfortunately, it is still only a hope that there can be lasting political stability. These are the civilian victims we would like to continue to help in Iraq. We want all Iraq freed from this plague. We want people to live peacefully. That is why we also believe that the military trail is necessary, while it is quite obvious to us that it cannot, of course, stand alone and must not stand alone. That is why we have laid great stress on the fact that it will not be left alone, as can be seen from the report itself and the comments here. Then there have been a number of other questions that I think are quite natural, and I understand that they are being asked about. There has been the question: what about the second phase? Because it is the case that in the first phase here we continue in Iraq mainly with what we have been doing. And then it could come up with another phase where we do training with special troops on the ground, both in Iraq and inside Syria. For us Radicals, that is the difficult choice, because there are many open questions. That is also why we have put the emphasis on the political agreement, which is expressed in the report, that we will have the opportunity to come in and discuss if it becomes a reality, what kind of mission it is, what kind of objectives it is, and what kind of exit strategy it should be. And then, of course, it comes in Parliament's Foreign Policy Name, where we will then take a final decision on whether or not we can support the second stage politically. When we still think it's okay. to give the mandate today, it is because it may be necessary to act quickly on the ground and, therefore, because we have the opportunity to discuss it in foreign policy mention. Two other points were of great importance to Radicals in the negotiations with the government on this motion for a resolution. One was prisoners of war and how to deal with them. Here we are pleased that it appears that a military manual is being put in place before sending people on these missions and that a task force has been set up, so that if you expect to find yourself in the situation of taking prisoners of war there is a line straight home with full openness and a political responsibility for what is to happen. We're glad we got that. So with these three things that we have got in, in other words the possibility of being consulted politically, if you are going to go into another phase, the issue of prisoners of war, and the fact that you continue your efforts unceasingly in the other tracks, we are going to vote in favour of the proposal here. Now Mr. René Gade, that we are giving disproportionate support for war, and I understand that you can get the impression, because it is as the whole debate in Denmark is always going to be about the military contributions and not about everything else we do, but just one figure in this context is of course interesting: until today we have given approx. 1.6 billion kr. in humanitarian aid. We've paid 200 million. kr. I would also like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent work. The alternative wants. We already have. And we've used approx. 650 million kr. For military intervention, one third of what we have used for what could be called civilian intervention. This should continue to be the case, and that is one of the reasons why we have gone into this. Then there has been a somewhat muddy discussion last week about what the government really thought about prisoners of war and civilian losses. I understand those who have become a little confused, and that is why I also hope that today the Foreign Minister will have the opportunity to confirm two things, which is what I have taken out of last week's discussion. Paragraph 1: In relation to civilian losses, Denmark will have exactly the same practice as we have had up to now, namely to avoid it as far as possible. That's one thing. Paragraph 2 is then the issue of prisoners of war, and here it would be nice if the Foreign Minister would confirm that the military manual sent by the government in consultation and still in consultation is the military manual that the government holds. When I mention this, it is because Amnesty International has, after all, approached and believes that there is a discrepancy between the military manual and what the Secretary of Defense has replied to. So I would like to confirm that, and of course I would also like to confirm that it has not at any time been the intention for Danish soldiers to hand over prisoners of war to the Iraqi authorities at their request, unless there is an agreement that they will be protected and that Iraq will comply with the laws of war as regards the treatment of these prisoners.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419152730	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Søren Søndergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419152735	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteur. I would like to ask a question on the subject of prisoners and the extradition of prisoners, because radicals were, after all, one of the parties that was interested in having an Iraq Commission, and one of the reasons why there should be an Iraq Commission was that the question was unanswered; it is not something for historians, but it is responsible for the soldiers we send out, how they respond individually. They cannot rely on the fact that I was ordered to or anything. It is individual responsibility. That is why it is vital that the rules that apply are absolutely crystal clear to the individual soldier. But that also means that they must be absolutely crystal clear when we make the decision to send the soldiers out. Otherwise, we'll send soldiers out without crystal clear rules. That's why I'd like to hear from Mr. Knox. Martin Lidegaard, whether it is Radicale's view that with the answers that have come, there are crystal clear rules on how to treat prisoners of war taken by Danish soldiers.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419152844	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419152845	In other words, I fully agree that we need to have much clearer rules than we had when we entered the wars of the '00s, and that is why we called for a military manual to be in place and that we should have an agreement in relation to what you do if you are in the situation that you do not know what to do, and you cannot quite guard against that. General rule No One is that you should not take anyone, and the missions that we say yes to today there is a very, very small probability that will lead to a capture. General rule No. 2, and now I am talking about the military manual's chapters, is that you set the prisoners free, if you have to take them, and if for some reason you don't think you can, you will have a line directly home to Denmark with the new one we have received, where you will be able to hear the task force where both the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are represented, what you will do. This means that there will be a completely different openness and that the individual soldier will not be left alone with that down there, but that political responsibility can be placed. This seems to us to be a tremendous step forward, and it would be nice if the Enhedslisten would at least acknowledge it. Then it is true that uncertainty was created last week, but I have heard the Foreign Minister, whose resolution this is, speak very clearly on this matter, and I am confident about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419153000	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419153002	But can political responsibility suspend personal responsibility? So, can soldiers who might be in that situation refer to the fact that they were ordered from Copenhagen? Well, I'm just asking. Is it the case that conventions can be waived if orders have been given from home?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419153045	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419153045-2	The hope is, of course, that by involving a task force in Copenhagen you might be able to find solutions that are not possible for individual soldiers to find on earth, for example. an agreement with the Iraqi Government, if that is the situation you are going to or that you are going to Denmark if it is a Syrian warrior or whatever. So it can be said that the space of opportunity is getting bigger by the fact that the individual soldier is not alone with it. Anyway, the laws of war apply to everyone, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419153115	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419153119	Just a few weeks ago, we had a hearing in the Defence Committee, among other things. an expert from the Danish Institute of International Studies points out that there are many more civilian losses in Iraq and Syria than the coalition reports. We also know from some of the answers we have received in connection with this treatment that in future Denmark will begin to bomb much more in densely built areas as well. It's all something that means that a lot of civilians could be killed in these bombings. At the same time, however, it is not something that the coalition recognises to a large extent, and that is what, among other things, is. DIIS criticizes. How does the rapporteur feel about Denmark becoming part of a coalition, how many civilians can risk being killed in the bombings, and that one does not actually take seriously enough responsibility for it and admit it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419153218	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419153219	Now I don't know where Enhedslisten has from that we're going to bomb in more built-up areas. After all, several cities have already been taken, helping and providing air support to Iraqi troops who have then entered the cities. I believe that if we continue the practice so far, we will do everything we can to avoid civilian casualties. Like Mrs Flyvholm, I have noticed what DIIS said at the hearing. Like Mrs Mette Bock, I cannot relate to the rest of the coalition either, but I can relate to the Danish contributions, and here I must say I am quite convinced that there has been no civilian loss in relation to the efforts Denmark has made over the last 11⁄2 years, just as I am quite convinced from the same hearing that the rapporteur also took part in, that individual countries are doing more and more to pick up on whether there are civilian losses and, if so, how compensation can be granted, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419153323	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419153325	I do not agree with the view that more and more is being done. In view of the fact that 12 000 bombings have soon been carried out and only 21 civilian casualties have so far been admitted, I do not think we are doing enough. What I want to hear from the rapporteur is whether this is not seriously serious precisely because we know that the number of civilians killed, the destruction of houses and homes etc. Exactly something that can help strengthen the Islamic State and extremist forces, because the local people feel smashed and bombed and can therefore come to support these forces. Isn't that exactly something we should be worried about?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419153401	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419153402	This is clearly some of the things that make this election so difficult today. I'd like to acknowledge that. When we support it, it is of course because we are very convinced that, overall, this will lead to fewer civilian casualties than if Daesh is allowed to continue his ravages by killing completely randomly, rape and so on. It also includes a lot of civilian casualties, and it is therefore our belief that more civilians are being helped in this way, including in the past. Because we are quite convinced that we are actually firmly convinced that at least the Danes who are involved in the effort will do their utmost, as they have done so far, to avoid civilian losses. So we are just as concerned about protecting civilian victims as the Enhedslisten is, but we have the assumption that in this case it will have greater civil consequences and that more civilian victims will be involved if the whole coalition withdrew and Daesh was allowed to take Iraq militaryly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419153455	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419153500	I find that the rapporteur agrees that the civilian losses that are occurring are some that we, no matter what variant we choose, will have a very difficult time avoiding. We then hear the figures from Mrs Eva Flyvholm, about which we were informed at the hearing, among other things, that there are very, very few accepted civilian losses on the part of the coalition, that is to say, the losses that have been, as they say, there, that is, where the coalition goes out and says: yes, that is correct. Let's assume that's 21 civilian casualties out of 12,000 bombings. Does the rapporteur think that it creates the security and confidence of the local population when they say that with so many bomb attacks and we cannot say whether it is right or wrong; we must assume that these figures are correct • there in the fight to free the local population were 21 civilians, whom we have been responsible for the deaths. It sounds quite illogical to me whether one agrees or disagrees that this war and this effort should be made that only so few civilian casualties are recognised. My idea of war is that many civilians die.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419153605	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419153606	Yes, well, now it is of course very targeted operations that are being carried out in Iraq, where we do not have any real combat troops. Neither is the coalition. However, Iraqi soldiers on the ground are being supported from the air. I simply do not have the opportunity to assess the validity of what Mr. René Gade as suggesting, namely that there must be many, many more civilian losses. What I feel strongly convinced of is that at least in connection with the Danish contributions there has been no civilian loss. And when I dare say it, it's because I know how hard we try to pick up on it and monitor each case. We have had a case where we were in doubt and where the entire Defence Committee was over watching the videos in question. We really went to great lengths and I was at least convinced that they were not civilians. But you cannot guarantee it, and I must also admit that there are civilian casualties. And I can't do anything like sir. René Gade knows if there are anyone else in the coalition who has a different statistic than we do.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419153707	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419153708	Is it the rapporteur's experience that the war we are about to wage now, when we may only back up and it is not us who bomb and go in and are on land, will demand more civilian casualties in order to achieve our goal of exterminating IS? This is a bit of my problem with this resolution, because it is about destroying the IS. It's a fight against terror and IS... unique IS. That is not the way I actually hear the Radicals talking about the problem normally. There it is usually more nuanced what it is that needs to be done. Is it the rapporteur's view that, in order to achieve the objective of eradicating IS, we are going to enter a period when we are going to experience more civilian losses?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419153745	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419153746	I do not expect at this stage what we accept today is that there is a greater risk of civilian casualties than there has been in the first phase. We understand that there will be the same practice in which one does one's utmost to avoid civilian losses by the Danish pilots and red card holders, so I do not think and hope it will be any different. As I have said, it is all about saving civilians, who are currently thousands of civilians, not to say tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands of civilians, being ravaged by Daesh, who have killed many thousands. We cannot solve the entire conflict in Syria with this, but that is not the intention either. It is the intention to protect civilians; it is certainly our primary purpose.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419153835	Thank you. Then it's mr. Carl Holst. Carl Holst I did not ask for the floor). Okay, apostate. Then we'll move on, and then it'll be mr. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419153844	Thank you. After all, when we have the debate about the extradition of prisoners to the Iraqi forces, it is because the Iraqi forces are guilty of systematic violations of human rights, that is to say, systematic abuse of prisoners, their execution, and unfortunately also because the Iraqi forces, together with the Iranian-led Shia militias, are committing serious attacks against the Iraqi people. I'd like to ask you that. Sir. Martin Lidegaard has previously expressed concern about how the Iraqi forces and associated Shia militias behaved, for example when they burned Sunni Muslim villages around Tikrit. Now we have a very specific situation in which the UN sounded the alarm last week and said that the Iraqi forces and associated Shia militias are part of the starvation currently taking place by the civilian population in Fallujah. So I would really like to hear from the Radicals, who now intend to vote in favour of continuing military support for those who, according to the UN, are guilty of starving civilians: when is enough? When do you lose faith in the Iraqi forces' ability to respect human rights?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419153959	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419154000	After all, the Iraqi forces cover a large number of groups: Kurdish forces, Sunni forces and also Shiite forces. It is quite true that in the case of parts of the Shi'ite forces, there has been abuse, and we have been trying to do so for a very long time. We even suspect that they are controlled directly from Tehran, which makes it incredibly difficult to deal with. And I'm afraid that's not a pretty picture. However, if I may take another example, namely Ramadi, I would like to say that this town, as I know, is now controlled by Sunni Muslim Iraqi forces, with a civilian population who is happy that the city has been freed from mines and where it is now, if I may say, ethnic Sunnis that protect Sunnis, and there is no abuse I am aware of. So, unfortunately, I can't rule out the possibility, and that's the complicated reality in Iraq... that there are Shi'ite militias that are still committing abuse. The greatest possible pressure is being exerted. I just find it hard to see that it should be an argument to let Daesh take all Iraq, what I think is the alternative, if there is no military resistance to Daesh at all or support for it from us.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419154112	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419154114	I have to say that I simply do not buy that straw-man argument. After all, it is not natural law for Denmark to give military support to a government which, together with private militias, grossly suppresses its own civilian population. For example, it could be said that we simply do not give you military support until you behave properly. And that's actually what I'd like to ask, sir. Martin Lidegaard about. Now we are in a situation where we have the UN's word that the forces we are going in to give military support in Iraq are starving the civilian population in Fallujah. Should it not be radical politics to say: dear friends, it will not go any further, so can we not give you military support?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419154154	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419154154-2	Unfortunately, Iraq has been marred for decades by a sectarian conflict between Sunnis, Shias and Kurds. As far as Prime Minister Al-Abadi and several of his ministers are concerned, the government currently in Baghdad is doing what is humanly possible to keep track of all parts of what is going on in the battle under them, if I may say so, to build a new Iraqi army where there is no such sectarian tension. It is true that we cannot do that in one day. It is true that we must continue to demand this. But the problem is just, I'd say to Mr. Knox. Nikolaj Villumsen states that the alternative is that we threaten al-Abadi, who is not physically able to guarantee everything at this time, among other things. because Daesh sits in power so many places, and then says to him: We drop the support and go home; we will not support your efforts anymore is that it is Armageddon, only Armageddon that we have left in Iraq.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419154254	Sir. Peder Hvelplund, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419154257	Now this is a serious matter. I can hear that the rapporteur shares that view. The rapporteur is not very much in favour of granting guarantees in this matter either. I can understand that, too. However, I think that when it comes to the extradition of prisoners, we are in a situation where there is no military manual yet. What we then hear from Amnesty International and DIGNITY is that the draft is not clear enough in terms of how to deal with that situation. Is it not a prerequisite for supporting such action that there are clear guidelines on how prisoners should be handled before they can vote yes? I can hear that the rapporteur, like the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is calling for it to be put in place, but is it not a prerequisite that must lie before we can say that we are going in and support the fact that there are clear guidelines for the soldiers we are sending out so that we do not break the Geneva Convention or the Convention on Human Rights?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419154356	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419154357	I have a clear hope that the military manual can be adopted within a very short time. In fact, I do not remember when the consultation phase will be completed, but then it is my clear hope that it can be adopted very quickly, because I agree with that will provide the absolute best and safest basis for a possible Danish phase two. And we should bear in mind that it is probably there in particular that one can even hypothetically imagine that it can occur with capture. And I guess there's gonna be a while.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419154430	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419154430-2	However, I just think that if we are to adopt this, it must be a precondition that we know that prisoners are not extradited to the Iraqi authorities when we know that this means that they can be extradited for torture or execution. So should it not be a condition that a military manual should at least show that it is not handed over to the Iraqi authorities? Isn't that a prerequisite for supporting this effort?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419154458	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419154458-2	That is also why I hope that the Foreign Minister will confirm what he said several times last week, namely that Denmark will not hand over prisoners of war to Iraqi authorities at their request.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419154510	Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419154513	It's a continuation of this theme. I understand that there has been some doubt about that question when you look at the answers to the questions.I must confess that because it is quite obvious that you can hand over to the Iraqis if they ask for it. This is quite obvious and also reasonably logical in relation to the situation in which the soldiers will find themselves. But I actually think that Mr. Søren Søndergaard asked a very, very relevant question before, namely, that if you have to call home the task force, who is responsible for the decision that the soldier is going to make? Are they the ones who sit at home, or is it the soldier himself who does it? If you have to follow the rules, is it the soldier himself, but is it actually fair that he should act, if I may say so, on the basis of a decision by some high-ranking gentlemen at home in Copenhagen, and is it not the case that the one who gives some completely untenable situations for the people who are in the field?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419154622	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419154624	Yes, but at least, as I see it, it is the case that if you were to come, what is still quite improbable, in the situation that you cannot release a potential prisoner whom you, which is also unlikely, should feel compelled to take, then what can happen is by calling home, that hopefully Copenhagen can help find a solution that does not include handing over a prisoner without any assurance that this prisoner will be treated properly. It should be borne in mind that there is both an opportunity to reach a general agreement with the Iraqi Government. It has proved difficult, it is being worked on, it is being pushed for in the coalition towards the Iraqi Government, so we can hope that there will be, of course, the best thing to do, but there is of course also the possibility of getting an agreement in the individual situation if it is finally there, or there may be a very third option. So you can't, if I may say so, take away responsibility. That is actually true, but one can at least try to ensure that the laws of war are observed, and that possibility is greater when one has the whole device at home to help him.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419154737	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419154739	I do not think that is what we were told here. I could understand that the purpose of the task force is that it should be able to come to a conclusion that prisoners should not be extradited, as I heard Mr. Martin Lidegaard. I would like to be corrected if that were wrong. But it is interesting if it is the interpretation of this task force, namely that it is intended to ensure that prisoners are not extradited to the Iraqi authorities, but what is it supposed to do? And how can it do that unless it tells the soldiers in question so directly that they can keep this prisoner? It's also an option so that the prisoner can go back to Denmark? I really think there is reason for this to be clarified, if I may say so, before we send soldiers.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419154836	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419154838	But Mr. Holger K. Nielsen is quite right that you can in fact imagine not only the three different situations which Mr. Holger K. Nielsen got sketched up here, but many, many more situations were hypothetically seen. That is also why I really think it makes very good sense that, if you expect to get into this situation, you have the opportunity to call home and get some advice. Whether it ends up taking the person home to Denmark because it turns out to be a Danish Syrian warrior, if that is the scenario, or whether it ends up taking a direct approach to the Iraqi Government to obtain a guarantee of this prisoner's safety, is not known. It is very difficult to foresee all the possible events, but that is precisely why I think the construction is very sensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419154925	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419154928	There is also a completely different angle which has not been touched on so much, but which I think is important, and which I can see that a number of newspapers today also touch on the old radical battlewriting, called the newspaper Politiken, where the leader has the headline "War and no peace." Finally, it is written: "Even though both the Islamic State and President Assad look great at international law and cynically exploit any restrictions we impose on ourselves, it is not a matter of whether Denmark is once again embarking on a war on a dubious basis under international law. That is neither necessary nor wise. ▪ Politiken's editorial writer writes this. In Jyllands-Posten Jan Øberg has a long article in where he says the same thing. In the worker is Christine Gray, Cambridge University, who among other things. is used at Danish universities in connection with international law, out with the same warning. Does it not make the impression that more and more people are beginning to analyse this situation, which says that it is at the edge of international law and can become a new problematic situation for Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419155037	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419155038	I have to rely on, and this is how we usually work here in the Danish Parliament, that we base it on the legal service provided by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and our Ministry of Justice. If they are on the goal that international law is in order, that is also what we must start from, otherwise I would hardly have been able to act in any kind of conflict, so we are doing the same here. After all, the basis of international law is Iraq's self-defense, and for me there is no doubt at all that this is, in phase one, what it is all about, because that is what has been going on in recent months and will also be going on in the coming months. After all, this is about freeing Iraqi territory, and we have been asked to do so by the Iraqi Government and to support their own troops in that manoeuvre.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419155133	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419155135	The radical rapporteur knows as well as I do that we are on the wrong track. How far does the rapporteur think you can go into another country? 'Responsibility to protection does not just give you the full right to do what suits you in every situation, and there is nothing in these two resolutions to which the Foreign Minister refers about those things. That is why we are on an issue of interpretation which is in a grey area. That is why I am saying that there are more and more of those who have a little sense at this academic level who, in very serious terms, are warning about these things. I believe that we have once acted outside both the United Nations and international law in Iraq. Wasn't it a good idea to think a little bit about when people come up with warnings?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419155224	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419155225	I believe that we are in the field of international law, not least here in the first stage, I think it is quite obvious. It is not the case that anything can be done in Syria. You can, for example. do not start to engage in some of the other posts inside Syria • neither one nor the other kind of • because it has nothing to do with Daesh. After all, this is an effort against Daesh in an attempt to free the territories occupied by Daesh and free the civilians trapped under their reign of terror. If we are to do so in Iraq, then it makes sense that we can also pursue them across the border or across the virtually non-existent border with Syria.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419155308	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Then we move on to the SF's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Holger K. Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419155331	It is always a serious discussion when we send Danish soldiers to war, which is why I am glad that we have had a proper debate here today. It would be almost unbearable if it were just to be run through without it being discussed properly. And I also believe that there is reason for us to have a public debate about it. The fight against Islamic State or Daesh, as it is also called, is important. Daesh is a brutal terrorist movement which is now in Iraq and Syria, but in many other places, too, Libya, Jordan and many other places than the Middle East, and therefore it is certainly important that we fight against Islamic State. We have to do this in many different ways, and I am not one of those who claim that the military leg cannot be used. That's not true, because it can. We ourselves supported the efforts in Iraq in 2014. We believe it has made good sense that Kurdish forces in Kobane, Syria, have been supported from the air. There is no doubt that if the Kurds had not received air support from American aircraft, Kobane would have fallen to the Islamic State, as well as it is also obvious that if air support had not been given in Iraq, the Kurds would also have been slaughtered by the Islamic State, and probably Erbil had also fallen. So it might make sense. The thing is, there is a difference between Iraq and Syria. That is what we said when we supported the efforts in Iraq. There is not, as in Iraq, a clear picture of who we can support on land. It's in Iraq. All right, the Iraqi Government's army could be better, but it is still the case that it has made sense that we support it. Who's in Syria? There are some moderate opposition groups, and there are some Kurdish groups that we can certainly support, but they are generally very weak, and we know they are, and that is why it is so complicated to enter Syria; those with whom we then come instead, if I may say so, to work with, are perhaps some Islamist groups with which we cannot quite see who is and which we cannot know who is. I think that is very strange, I have to say. I think the Danish people are entitled to know who we are working with down there in such a serious matter as this. I think that is simply a democratic problem, that is to say that we cannot get to know it. In addition, and this is the worst thing for me, this strengthens Assad. It strengthens Assad. It's Assad who's the cause of this. It was Assad who in 2011 defeated the democratic rebellion and which caused the Syrian civil war. It is Assad who has killed hundreds of thousands of ordinary Syrians who have hunted millions of refugees from Syria and who have destroyed Syria from one end to the other. The Islamic State is a brutal movement, yes, but has not nearly as many people died on the conscience as Assad has. The Islamic State has emerged from the Iraq War. It was very much al-Qaeda in Iraq that developed, and among other things. received help from a number of Saddam Hussein's officers who went underground in 2003 and how many said: Where have they gone? They went underground after our attack on Iraq in 2003, but then reappeared at Daesh's. This is one of the main reasons why Daesh has been so effective militarily, what was not thought at first. It comes from Iraq, but why did they grow in Syria? Why did they grow in Syria? Because they were a leading force in the fight against Assad. It is Assad who has nurtured the growth of the Islamic State in Syria, and the fact is that as long as Assad is there, the Islamic State will still be able to grow away in Syria. It is quite naive to think that we can have the Islamic State removed as long as Assad is in power. We simply cannot do that, and that is why we need to have in mind what we are doing. I do not deny that military means can be used, but we should not do so with our heads under our arms, what we are doing here, and especially not when it means that Assad is being strengthened as he does. We come into a wasp of various interests and conflicts with various groupings in Syria, with the Russians, with the Iranians. What are we going to do about them? Turkey has its very special Kurdish agenda, which is also counterproductive, in relation to what we want. We have the Saudis, who also operate with their agendas throughout the region here and also in Syria. In other words, this is part of a long, far more extensive conflict in the whole region between Shias and Sunnis, between Saudis and Iranians, between different sects and between different groupings that fight each other, between different economic interests that stand up to each other and where, at best, we in the West cannot do anything, at worst can make it all far, far worse than it is. I think we should look at our past experience. The same was said before the Iraq War: Saddam Hussein is evil, he must be fought, we must have democracy in Iraq. That's why we should go in. Those were Tony Blair's arguments. That was Anders Fogh Rasmussen's arguments. Did we get democracy? Afghanistan in the same way. We must support Karzai; we must support democracy in Afghanistan; we are going in militarily and fighting the Taliban. Has this helped in relation to democracy? We said this in relation to Libya: we must have Gaddafi removed. If we get rid of Gaddafi, we'll make democracy flourish. Did it flower up in Libya? No. That means that the military strategy we have has been extremely limited in terms of what we wanted. As I said, in individual cases, if we think very well, it can have a function, but only in relation to other measures, only in relation to being a support function, and only when there are forces on land with which you can work. These conditions are not present here. We must never send soldiers to war if we do not know what the target is and if we do not know how to get out of it again. These conditions have not been met here, and that is why we are voting against this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419160143	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419160156	Thank you. Sir. Holger K. Nielsen has made a fine speech in which he argues that the strategy we now accept is unambitious. In fact, what the rapporteur is arguing for is ground troops so that we can control the liberated areas. Is it that we do not have anyone on land to control the liberated areas, what makes the SF unable to support the strategy and will not vote in favour of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419160239	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419160241	I am very pleased with that question because it shows just a little about the problems in this resolution. It's not unambitious, it's wrong. That is the problem. The fact of the matter is that Mr. Naser Khader is right that I am quite convinced that the consequence of this will be that we must deploy ground troops, and that is what Mr. Naser Khader wants. So where are we? Then we'll be like Iraq at the time. Then we will be included in the same way as we did in Iraq, and I can guarantee that the Iraq war will be a Sunday excursion in relation to what we will see in Syria. Sir. Naser Khader is right in his logic, but I do not agree with him on the grounds for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419160328	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419160330	Well, what's the alternative? What is the alternative to the strategy? Should we just stand by and stand by and stand by so that the Islamic State grows bigger and bigger? They're spreading. They really want to get into Jordan and smash the country there. They kill minorities, they have female sex slaves, they sell oil on the black market in Turkey and Jordan. Are we just gonna be passive? What else are we gonna do besides use this strategy?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419160404	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419160405	I know all that very well. Well, you can spare yourself that. I know very well what the Islamic State is doing. Yes, they are spreading to other places, but do we stop the Islamic State in Libya and Jordan by waging war in Syria? That's bullshit. We don't. On the contrary, it will happen that, to the extent that we get them, if I may say so, repressed in Syria in the traditional war, they will find other battlefields. That is one of the problems in this: they will find other battlefields, for example. in Jordan, e.g. in Libya, e.g. in Europe, e.g. in Copenhagen. That's why this is much more complicated than that. We cannot just defeat the Islamic State by waging war in Syria, as Mr. Naser Khader seems to think.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419160450	It is commendable that the rapporteur is eager to answer the question put, but please wait until you are given the floor. The next question in the line is Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419160503	Thank you to the rapporteur for a thoughtful speech. There was one thing I had to say that I would ask the rapporteur to clarify. The rapporteur said that the Kurds had quite different interests. I think that is what the rapporteur said. And, of course, it could lead to a discussion about who we are. But what are some other interests that the rapporteur believes the Kurds have? Or perhaps I could ask more precisely: the areas liberated by the Kurds and where cooperation has been established with Christians and Arabs and others in multi-ethnic and multi-religious unity, does the rapporteur describe as a model for the rest of Syria?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419160550	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419160551	I don't think I said anything about that. I didn't mention the Kurds' fight there. What I said about the Kurds was that the American aircraft had helped in the fight to keep Kobane and that in this context it made sense to provide air support. The struggle of the Kurds may well be discussed, but I think that may be in a different context than this one today. Well, it has something to do with what a future Syria will look like. Sir. Søren Søndergaard and I were in Erbil a few years ago and saw how Iraq has managed to create something that is actually the same as a state. It is not formal, but it is really a state. And hopefully there will also be extensive autonomy in Syrian Kurdistan with cooperation between them. I hope so; that is clear. But I didn't say anything about it, and I don't think we should discuss that much here today either.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419160654	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419160655	Then all I have to do is apologize...
ParlaMint-DK_20160419160657	No problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419160658	The next question is Mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419160705	So far, the SF and Radicals have, of course, agreed to support the efforts in Iraq and have also agreed that what we have done in Iraq this time differs in some crucial respects from the headless expedition that Anders Fogh Rasmussen and the company were out in the 00s. The fact that we are not in there with troops, that we are there with the clear support of the Iraqi Government itself and that we are there to help civilians and to free these areas. Therefore, I had actually thought that SF would be positive here. I understand, then, that it is Syria and the inferno in Syria in particular that are preventing the SF from being able to support it. We also have concerns about this, and I shall not hide it from you in relation to the second phase, which is described here. In any case, we must have more things in place before that. However, my question is quite simple: is the SF in favour of the first phase, which is now under way, and which is, of course, the direct continuation of what we have done so far in Iraq.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419160804	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419160806	I'd like to say to Mr. Martin Lidegaard, that you cannot separate the two phases. I think that is quite naive, I have to say. And that is why they are described in the same proposal here. It is true that, in the first place, the fight is continuing in Iraq itself. We could then ask: if there had been a proposal which only concerned Iraq, would we have voted in favour or against? I cannot really answer that now, because I think there are also problems in Iraq. The chance that we had voted in favour had been far, far greater than that is clear, but I just don't think you can separate it. Because there's a perfectly logical connection between them. I can guarantee that the defence is planning to be both in Iraq and in Syria, and then it is true that there will be a debate here in the Folketing or in the Foreign Policy Name at some point. So I do not think that separation is very realistic; I have to say that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419160852	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419160854	I see it now quite realistically, because I think there is a huge difference between whether the main contribution is to support from the air, or whether you have real special forces on the ground to do training not only inside the closed training camps, but also in the real world and also in battle. It is for me for many different reasons both in relation to the issue of prisoners, in relation to the question of what happens to the areas you take and many other things • a somewhat different issue. We have not yet taken a position. But there's so much difference that I just think it might be interesting before we get so up in the high rent about how bad it is to support the effort in Iraq to hear that it wasn't really something so far from SF's thinking.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419160941	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419160943	No, no, we supported it at the time, in 2014, when Mr. Martin Lidegaard was a minister. For us, it is crucial Syria. There are also problems in Iraq, we must also be honest and say so with the Iraqi army and the Baghdad government. There have been great, great difficulties with them, haven't there? But maybe we could have some kind of plan for that. What matters to us is Syria. And the fact that the Radical Left, like it, splits it up and says that today only Iraq and not Syria are taking a stand is not holding anywhere. With this motion for a resolution, a mandate is given for Danish forces to enter Syria as well. Then there must be an orientation in the Foreign Policy Name that is quite correct, but the two things are therefore linked, and it is not right to say that you only take a position for Iraq when you vote here later today. It is voted that we should also be able to enter Syria. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419161041	The next question is Mr. Nick Hækkerup, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419161044	Thank you. After all, the rapporteur made a fine speech and explained excellently how he regards the conflict as very complex. I believe that we all agree that there is an element of deputy conflict, war, that there are many different interests. The rapporteur then came to the conclusion at some point, if I heard correctly, that we in the West cannot do anything. I think that raises the question: is it the SF's answer to what is happening in Syria at the moment that we should not do anything?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419161129	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419161131	Now we have to look at the record of what I actually said. Well, I don't think I've said it like that. I think I told you, we can't win the war down there. We can't solve the conflict down there. And that's not the same thing as we can't do anything. I simply think it is wrong to believe that we in the West can go down in a regional civil war and then resolve that conflict. We can't. That is also why it is said in Iraq that we are going in and supporting the Kurds' struggle. We're not the ones leading the war. They're the ones who're leading the war. It's the government in Baghdad that's leading the war. It's not us. And the problem is just here that we do not know who is going to wage war for us on land. Is that Assad? It's probably gonna be Assad, and that's what's upsetting about this. This is when Assad sits and cheers, he sits and cheers after he has killed hundreds of thousands of people, driven millions on the run, but he sits at the end and cheers over this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419161237	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419161240	The truth is that, despite his irritation, the rapporteur does not make a single suggestion as to what needs to be done. In other words, as I hear this speech, the SF steps back to exactly the same position as that of the Enhedslisten and that of the alternative, namely that one wants to put oneself in a place where one is sure that one has completely clean hands, and then turn a blind eye to it that it costs continuing suffering to people in both Iraq and Syria.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419161314	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419161316	Yeah, but I'd like to say to Mr. Knox. Nick Hækkerup that it has become so in the Danish foreign policy debate that if you do not want to wage war, you will do nothing. I think that is a simplistic way of putting it up. I think that, for example, there is one. there are plenty of opportunities for us to do something in the humanitarian field and that we should do more in that area. It's part of this, too, I admit. We could do more than we actually are doing now and then also contribute to a political solution, and that is not negotiations with the Islamic State, but that there is a solution in Syria itself with a transitional government in which Assad disappears. That is what must be, if I may say so, a prerequisite for a meaningful military operation. We do not reject the possibility of a military operation against the Islamic State, but this presupposes that there is a political structure to do so and a plan for what will happen afterwards, and that is just what is not at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419161422	We thank the rapporteur for the SF and go further in the rapporteur's line. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419161442	I do not think there is anyone in the Folketing who is not tired of war in the Middle East, and nobody should accuse us of being eager to go to war. We don't have to go out and bomb the world all the time, and neither do we. We have waited a very, very long time to intervene in Syria. Meanwhile, hundreds of thousands of people have died and millions have been hunted on the run. Christians have largely been exterminated in the region, genocide has been committed against the Yazis, and terrorist attacks have been committed against innocent civilians in both the Middle East and Europe. The critics then say that we cannot foresee what will happen when we fight the IS and have them defeated, and that is absolutely right. We are doing everything we can to have a strategy that leads us on all keys, both diplomatically and militarily, towards a peaceful Syria and Iraq. But it is difficult to predict which groups will emerge and when we will have peace. On the other hand, we know for sure what will happen if we do not fight the IS. Then the genocides, mass rapes and terrorism by the IS will continue. And those who require great security and bulletproof plans before they are ready to act can thus prevent any military action. Because there are no military actions where there is a great deal of certainty about the consequences, and there is a demand that there should be a very high level of security as to how developments will take place, all military actions are opposed in practice. It is very easy to shoot everything down in that way, it is very easy to find excuses for not intervening, but the critics themselves have not come up with any realistic alternatives. It has been a very long debate today when we have asked many times those who believe that we should not intervene militarily, what the alternative is, and we have received no answer to it from the Alternative, Enhedslisten and other critics. Some vague proposals are mentioned in very broad terms that we should try to achieve a diplomatic solution, that we should involve the Kurds more, but we are already trying to do that, and we will do that in parallel. We're doing everything we can on the diplomatic front. A very comprehensive peace process is under way, but if you think that the Islamic State is going to be stopped by a diplomatic debate alone, you have not understood what we are facing. We are faced with people with whom we cannot have a dialogue at all because they do not recognise reason and humanity. They will not stop until they have submitted themselves to the whole Middle East as slaves in a caliphate that is their stated objective. They have no desire for peace, they have no desire to prevent human suffering, because they do not attach any weight to it. They are concerned only with living up to their perverted religious beliefs. They have no respect for human life... they see people as small pieces that can be sacrificed because it's in a book. These are not people with whom we have the opportunity to negotiate. It's people that need to be stopped. Ask the Yazids who sit on a mountaintop and can look down on their people who are being slaughtered. Ask the women who get mass raped. Do they want a corps of conflict-solving and humanitarian aid, or do they want some soldiers to stop their rapists and murderers? Ask Iraq. Iraq will never gain control of its country unless the Islamic State is defeated. You can mean what you want about the Iraq war, and I mean mine too, but where we stand now, you can mean nothing but that we owe it to the Iraqi Government to get control of its country, and it does not, as long as the Islamic State is not defeated. Without a victory over the IS in both Syria and Iraq, Iraq will continue to be in chaos. We do not want any more wars, and Conservatives have also recently voted against the Danish military engagement in Mali. We're sick and tired of war. But we must end the war that we are already involved in, and that is done by defeating the enemy. Conservatives actually wanted us to go further and that in a broad coalition we also had some ground troops put in, we saw, among other things. could protect some of the most seriously affected areas, protect refugee camps and all the displaced and persecuted people down there, so that we could help to ensure that, with military action, we could manage the flows of refugees or, at least, moderate them a little. But we are glad that action is now being taken. It is very important to me and the Conservative People's Party that our soldiers be deployed under proper conditions. I do not think we have mentioned this much in today's debate, but it is therefore important, and I am pleased to have understood that our flight crew will be sent to a better base than last time, when we can count on welfare being higher. Because this group of soldiers has been wasted very hard in recent years, and we would like to be able to keep them and offer them proper conditions. That is why it is also clear that we will not be able to extend the missions to more than the mandate is given for now. We know that resources are being wasted very hard, and as long as we have such an irresponsiblely low defence budget as we have today, it is a political responsibility that we do not ask the soldiers for more than there is capacity for. There has also been a lot of discussion about what soldiers should do if they are going to take prisoners. And there we stress that the missions to which the soldiers are sent are designed so that they are unlikely to give prisoners of war. F-16 aircraft do not take prisoners of war, and the special forces we deploy are deployed in missions where they do not come into direct combat, but more must advise and train local forces. This also means that they are very likely not to take prisoners. Should it happen anyway in some self-defense mission or something else, that there will be prisoners of war, a line has been established where the units can get direct contact with the top of the defense and thus get advice and back cover for what they do with the prisoners. We think this is an important step forward. This does not prevent a hundred per cent of situations of prisoners of war which are difficult to resolve, but I feel at least that we have done what we can at this stage to ensure that the soldiers do not get into unreasonable situations and dilemmas where it can be difficult to know what to do. We owe them that too, and we attach great importance to that. We are very proud of our Danish soldiers. We know that, as always, they will make us proud when they are deployed. This mission is about defeating one of Denmark's enemies, and we are sure that the soldiers will do so with their usual professionalism, integrity, morality and skill. We wish them good luck and thank you for once again going out to defend Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419162231	Thank you. Then there are a number of questioners. The first in line is sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419162239	Thank you. That has often been heard by the Foreign Affairs rapporteur for the Conservatives, Mr. Naser Khader that Assad is the biggest criminal when it comes to killing civilians, and I fully agree with that. ISIL are extreme criminals; Assad has just killed more civilians. Now we have a situation in which the Conservatives will vote in favour of a military operation in Syria that could strengthen Assad may strengthen extreme Islamists. On the side of the Enhedslisten we say that we simply do not want to be involved in this. We, like the Conservatives, recognise that it is actually about who is on earth. The Conservatives have said that Danish soldiers are going into Syria. We have said: no, we will not, we will support local democratic forces. So I would like to hear from the Conservatives: when you think that Assad is such a big scoundrel, and when you want to fight Nazi Islamism, as we could see in the election campaign, how can you start an air war that can strengthen totalitarian and brutal groups • Assad and extreme Islamists?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419162347	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419162348	I think there is a lot going on about the argument now by Enhedslisten. So far, in the course of today's debate, I have understood the Enhedslisten so that the Enhedslisten agrees that we must defeat the Islamic State. Now I understand that we should not do that because it could strengthen Assad. We disagree with that. We believe that the Islamic State must be eradicated. Then it is true that it can of course benefit the enemy of our enemy, who in this case is Assad, whom we do not like either. But that is not a reason for not stopping an organisation that commits the atrocities of the Islamic State. So as far as Nazi Islamism is concerned, I think it's a little nasty to bring it into the discussion here. It is a kind of rhetorical word-drilling here in the middle of a very serious discussion. But it is certainly a name that is more appropriate for the Islamic State than it is for Assad. I think we can agree on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419162447	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419162449	But at least I'm sorry if Mr. Simpson... Rasmus Jarlov didn't understand my question. Then I will make it quite clear. The Conservatives have repeatedly said that what matters is who is on earth... what kind of devices are on earth. Sir. Naser Khader has said that Danish units are required. If Danish units do not enter, it will be Assad, it will be extreme Islamists who are on earth. Now you have a situation where you vote for air support, without there being Danish forces in there, but where you know that Assad is there. Why can you do that if you're really so worried about Assad's crimes?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419162526	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419162528	This is because it is estimated that the consequences of passively watching terrorism, genocide and mass rape from a declared enemy of Denmark continue unimpeded without us doing anything about it is worse. And it is true that there could be better solutions, as I said in my speech. We would have liked to see the deployment of ground forces from a coalition, not from Denmark alone, which would have been completely insane. But in a coalition, we would have liked land forces to have come in to protect areas in Syria, to protect the refugees down there. However, we believe that this is a good move and we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419162542	The next question is Mr. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419162612	We have heard several times, including from the Conservatives and the rapporteur today, that the plans put forward by the parties that do not want to support B 108 are soft or too vague, or that they do not really point to anything that might remind us of a solution. I'm sorry, but I don't think we're gonna be able to agree on these two minutes, so I'm gonna try to delineate, so we can just agree on what we can do from now on. What we are saying is that we need a military solution at some point in time to defeat the IS. We just disagree that it has to be right now that we have the right mandate, that we have the right plan and that it is this coalition that has to do so in order for it to bring about lasting peace. So if that is included in the recitals, the rapporteur will recognise that there has actually been a plan containing elements of what the government and also the rapporteur's party support here, in other words, where humanitarian efforts are to be made, there must be reconstruction, there must be peace mediation. We need to say yes to military action on the part of this coalition which, in our view, has failed in the past in terms of going in and stabilising the region and creating peace.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419162718	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419162721	I certainly don't want to do that, sir. René Gade is sorry, but I have to say that I do not regard a desire at some point to make a military effort as a plan. So it is too loose and I think it is kept in very broad terms what it is that you are going to do. You're against this. It is very easy to question any military action on the basis that there is uncertainty, as per per year. definition is in military intervention, but how long do we have to wait? Do you want another 100,000 to die, 200,000? How many women are to be raped down there? How many terrorist attacks do we need in Europe before we are ready to act? I think we have been waiting for a very, very long time, and it is time for action. As much as I hate that Denmark should be involved in another military conflict down there, I actually see this as ending the war that we are already in Iraq and that we have to bring to an end. We can't keep watching this chaos.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419162822	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419162826	I would like to hear from the rapporteur about IS in all the other countries where IS is also represented today. We are told that when we press against Syria, they spread to other places. Should we also go in all the other places and back up militarily from Denmark and from the coalition? Well, is it useful to go in so many places locally? Does the rapporteur think that this is the way to win over IS?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419162851	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419162853	No, of course we should not go into all sorts of places around the world, but fortunately there is no other place in the world that can be compared to Syria either. After all, there is nowhere else in the world where there is this degree of chaos and human suffering and where a country is put into civil war and total chaos because of the Islamic State. They also exist elsewhere, but there is not the same serious situation. I disagree that they just spread to other places. This is an inflammation, and then you have to go to the root of it and get it removed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419162927	The next question is Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419162932	Thank you. I think that the fight against the Islamic State must be fought, and we have also proposed this, among other things. in relation to ending the cash flows financing the Islamic State. I think much more could be done there and, above all, we could set our feet on Erdogan in Turkey. We have proposed several times that the Kurds should be supported, not only in Iraq, where we have all agreed here in the Folketing to do so, but also in Syria with protective equipment and weapons. The rapporteur's party voted against this. And then we think that we should go in and support reconstruction, because people are still struggling to get a place to live at all, for example. in an area such as Kobane, which the Kurds have liberated from IS. A year and a half ago, I was in Northern Iraq to talk to just as many of these people who had fled the IS attacks in Mosul and around Mount Sinjar, and what people wanted was precisely these things: arms support and reconstruction and a proper closure for funding. So I am surprised that it is only now that we want to do something and that it is precisely this type of military operation that we choose to carry out, because it has a very high price to wage war by bombing F-16 aircraft from the air. It has a very high price for the people who are on earth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419163045	Yes, please! The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419163048	I would then like to acknowledge that something concrete is coming, and I am very much in demand of those who are busy with this problem. I agree that the Kurds deserve respect for their fight against the Islamic State, but I disagree with the Enhedslisten, who seems to think that it is very wrong for the West to fight Islamic State together with a broad coalition of Arab countries, but that it is fine if the Kurds do so. In the face of insecurity, I am very uneasy about arming the Kurds and thus risking that the weapons fall into the wrong hands and that it is developing in a direction that we cannot control. At any rate, I feel that if you talk about uncertainty and the fact that you cannot control future scenarios, it is more certain to be involved in a military action, where you keep the weapons on your own hands and then stop using them when you think you're done, instead of being down there and being given to some groupings that we don't have control over.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419163146	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419163148	[Sound emission]... I think that is a very strange statement from the rapporteur, because the Conservatives and other parties here in the Danish Parliament have also supported the sending of weapons to the Kurds in Northern Iraq, and there was no doubt about that. In relation to the support of the Kurds in Syria, our American allies also recognise that they are the most crucial and important partner in the fight against the IS, so I think that is a very strange argument. I just want to know if the rapporteur can't confirm that when you bomb F-16s and risk hitting civilians, there is an increased risk that every time someone loses a mother or brother or anyone else, it will give support to the Islamic State. It was precisely also the teachings of Afghanistan and the Taliban that the bombings gave support to the extreme forces.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419163230	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419163232	That is, of course, true, and I suppose that is the case if the Kurds kill some people. Well, there's no difference. Whether it is one or the group that fights the Islamic State, there will be some civilian victims, and this can lead to their support. I do not think that the Kurds are just the same everywhere, so that, if you can support them in Northern Iraq, you can also support them everywhere else. I know that this is contrary to the ideals, but I also believe that we need to take Turkey's views on this issue into account. If we are to have a broad coalition, we must bring Turkey along, and that is why we must take some account of their views on this issue, although I also think the Turks are unfair.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419163311	The next question is Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419163315	Well, actually, I think the cork went off that bottle. Well, I actually think that Mr. Rasmus Jarlov explained what this is all about. It's about Turkey. 'Cause if you don't, sir... Rasmus Jarlov's speech has no meaning. Rasmus Jarlov spoke passionately about the Yazi women raped on Mount Sinjar. Who stopped it? Was it fighters from the United States or anywhere else that stopped it? No, it was YPG and YPJ who stopped it with guns. They were the ones who put an end to the killing of more Yazids. They're the ones who saved them into Northern Iraq and into Rojava. And who stopped the Islamic State at Kobane? It was again YPG and YPJ. And how much support have they received from us? How many crowns have been given to YPG and YPJ who stopped the Islamic State? Zero crowns. How many boots are given so they don't have to run around on bare feet? No way. Was it not time for us to abandon our concern for Turkey and support those who are fighting against the Islamic State?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419163418	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419163420	As I said, I have the greatest respect for the Kurds' struggle, particularly around Kobane; it deserves our respect, of course. I also think that some of these groups could be supported more, but there is one thing we should remember here, and that is that right now we are voting on whether Denmark should contribute to an international mission or not contributing to an international mission. We cannot determine the peace process, which groups can join and sit at the table, and how much the international coalition must bring the Turks and others. We can try to influence it. You can then have some opinions on that, but that cannot lead us to say no to supporting this international mission, which will be a step forward and which will make life much more difficult for the Islamic State and hopefully have them defeated.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419163512	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419163514	What will determine it in relation to the Islamic State much more than air strikes is that the Islamic State recruitment base, Islamic State supplies and Islamic State cash flows are drying out. It takes one thing. This requires the closure of the border with Turkey. Because it's through Turkey that the recruits come. It is through Turkey that supplies are coming. And it is through Turkey that they are smuggling out their oil. That is why there is again a call to the Conservatives: drop the friendship with Erdogan, and instead go in favour of doing the only thing that can solve this conflict, namely to support those who can close the border, namely the Kurds in YPG and YPJ.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419163554	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419163556	Listen, we don't have any friendship with Erdogan. And we agree that Turkey's behaviour leaves much to be desired. That's just not what we're voting on right now. Now we are voting on a motion for a resolution to combat the Islamic State militarily. Should we not do so because there are other things that should also happen? I don't think so. But I think it's kind of classic for Enhedslisten that you say a whole lot of other things that should happen, but that you know can't be done. And then you use it as an excuse not to do what is in front of you and on which you have to vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419163630	The next question is Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419163635	Thank you. Well, then I'll try to take it from another angle. I note that in his rapporteur's speech, the rapporteur mentioned that it was important that there were proper conditions for the Danish soldiers. However, the reports from the veterans who have been sent to Afghanistan and Iraq now tell us that some of their priorities are precisely that they have the experience that their mission has been useless because they see that the Taliban are again in the areas from which they should chase the Taliban. And it is, of course, somewhere an indication that those missions have not had a clear purpose; there has not been a clear goal, a defined goal, and a clear plan for what should happen, also afterwards. Isn't that exactly the same thing we're doing in this situation? We are discussing what forces it is, that is, what Islamists it is that we will be supporting in Syria with our bombing expeditions. We're discussing how to treat prisoners. Is it not precisely disrespectful of the efforts of the soldiers that we, as decision-makers, do not ensure that the basis is properly in place before we decide to send them off?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419163740	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419163742	No, I don't think that's the same. There is a very big difference between the three wars. I regard it as a success in Afghanistan because the Taliban have been displaced from power in Afghanistan, and there is now a regime with which we can support and with which we can cooperate. Progress has also been made in relation to the level of education of Afghans, their welfare, and their GDP has grown quite considerably. Much remains to be done, but progress has been made. The Iraq War was another war. At that time an attempt was made to replace a regime. It has been a less successful strategy, one might say in Jutland, and this has led to a lot of problems. Then there is Syria, where we have a declared opponent, the Islamic State, which we are trying to defeat, while at the same time we have a very comprehensive diplomatic process in order to get a regime in place that can have legitimacy in the population and that can stop the civil war. But the goal of the military action is to defeat the Islamic State. That's very well-defined. And that has nothing to do with us going in and taking control of the country, as was done in Iraq with a lot of chaos. So I think that lessons have been learnt from the Iraq war in particular, and so must we, because it has caused a great chaos, that it was not properly prepared from the start.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419163856	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419163858	Now we are not going to have a longer discussion about whether the efforts in Afghanistan have been successful, but I just think it is quite an insult to call it a clearly defined goal that we are sending bombers down to throw bombs into the head of the Islamic State, without having a clear definition of what forces we are going to support down there and who is going to take over the areas that we hope Islamic State is robbing, other than that we have a presumption that it may just as well be Shiamuslim militias doing so instead. I think it's quite an insult to call this a clearly defined goal with that effort.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419163933	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419163935	I have been wondering all the way during this debate that Enhedslisten is so attached to this that we do not know who we are going to support. We are not there to support anyone. We're there to fight someone. We have an enemy called the Islamic State that we must defeat and defeat. That is a very well-defined objective, and that is why we are there. Then it is true that I also said in my speech that there is no certainty as to how things are going to develop. However, I feel that there is a guarantee that by fighting Islamic State you will have stopped their enterprise, which must:
ParlaMint-DK_20160419164009	The next question is the rapporteur's party colleague, sir. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419164015	That is in order to clarify something that I have been quoted for. What I have said is: if at some point we turn the Islamic State back from, for example, Raqqa, their capital, who will then go in and control the area? I have said there that it cannot be done without having ground troops, but I have not said that it is only Danish ground troops, as I am quoted by Mr Tugendhat. Nikolaj Villumsen. I have said that it must be international ground troops, first and foremost Muslim ground troops, Arab ground troops, who must take the lead in the fight against the Islamic State. That is not only the task of the West, for the Islamic State is also very much the problem of the Muslims, and they are a great threat to the Muslims. Will Mr. Rasmus Jarlov doesn't agree that's what I said?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419164109	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419164111	I take note of that, because I believe that Mr. Naser Khader knows better what he himself has said than I do, so I guess I can't be used to confirm it, but I can only say that of course I am 100% in agreement with him.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419164120	The next question is Mrs Ida Auken, the Radical Left. Here you go. Oh, well, there was pressure. I note that there are no more authors, so we thank the rapporteur. Then we move on to the next speaker, and that is the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419164144	I would like to start by thanking you for a comprehensive debate which has extended over a few hours now. This is not the first time we have had this debate, because there was also the debate at first reading, and there has also been debate in a series of consultations, a series of meetings, open hearings, closed meetings in confidence, so that Members of Parliament can be dressed in the best way possible in order to take what, unfortunately, has been the most difficult decision to make in far too many cases: a decision to send Danish soldiers in an armed conflict. I don't agree with you, sir. René Gade says there has been no debate, because I think there has been a lot of debate. There has been more debate in both the Parliamentary Chamber and externally than there have been many other times, for example. in the case of Libya or in relation to B 123, when the first contribution was sent. It's just because this mission is different than others. It goes, among other things. I believe that we must work together in the complex situation in Syria at the moment, which is why I do not understand it being said that there has been no debate. There I do not agree with everything that has been said. I can, for example. Don't recognize sir. Nikolaj Villumsen's claim that Britain should not be active on their flights when it can be seen on the UK's official website that they have only yesterday been active, that they have been active over the weekend and that they were active last week. But it's gotta be sir. Nikolaj Villumsen's responsibility is not entirely to have a handle on what Britain is actually doing in the conflict. When I think the debate has been good, it is because it has been important to shed light on the difficult dilemmas that exist, both when we go into conflict in general, but especially in relation to the decision to send Danish soldiers to fight against ISIL and Syria. First of all, I should like to say that, of course, I am explaining the position of the government, and by that I mean the whole of me, in particular, I do not understand those members of the Defence Committee who have asked questions about where the Minister for Defence is going. When, by letter to the Defence Committee last week, the Minister for Defence announced that, because of the content of the meeting of the EU Defence Ministers, he is in Brussels today and participates there, there was therefore ample opportunity to ask him follow-up questions, as many have done, prior to the discussion. And here today, on behalf of the government, I am going to answer both the questions directed at my own resort and the questions directed primarily at the Secretary of Defense. As I said, I am explaining the position of the entire government. Let me just try to turn the time back 20 months. ISIL's terrors and horrors were so small in the face of the world community. Terrible videos appeared about wars, about struggles, about refugees who could tell about ISIL's barbaric methods, mass executions, the use of rape, oppression of peoples; the Yazids have been mentioned several times as one of the groups that were really being slaughtered by ISIL. After some quick victories and a very strong momentum, ISIL was in a situation where they were so strong in Iraq that there was real concern about whether it would collapse. Today we are in a completely different situation. Thanks to the efforts of the global coalition, we are in a situation in which Iraq has not collapsed, where, on the other hand, ISIL is being pushed back, and we are doing so, because in Denmark, together with more than 65 coalition partners, we have taken responsibility. It stresses that the fight must not be simple, easy or short-lived; we must be prepared for it to be long and complex on the contrary. That is why the coalition has a broad spectrum and multiannual strategy. There is now a need for Denmark to reaffirm and strengthen its support for the efforts of the international coalition, and we want Denmark to assume that responsibility on the part of the government. This is partly because there is momentum in the fight against ISIL. They've lost 40%. of the area occupied by them at the time their distribution was highest in Iraq, they have lost 10%. the area occupied by them in Syria and they have reduced their oil revenue because efforts have been made to remove the oil installations, the means of transport they used for their illegal oil sales. We also believe that it is important from the Danish side that we listen to it when our close allies, in this case France and the United States, have asked us to consider whether we can strengthen our contribution. We take that seriously and we take it with us. And then we may do it most of all, because the price of not acting now can be too high. It is unacceptable that terrorist movements occupy large rural areas so close to Europe and force millions to flee. It is unacceptable that terrorist movements, as ISIL has done, should be able to reach out and plan from their territories and hit us in the West, in Europe, in the United States, but also in the Middle East, in Asia, in Africa. If you take the map of where either ISIL departments or people inspired by ISIL have hit with terror, you can see that the world as a whole is under attack from ISIL. This is not an easy decision. There I agree with the many rapporteurs who have said that. It is never an easy decision to send Danish soldiers to war, but it is a necessary decision. Neither I nor the others in the coalition have any expectation that we can resolve the conflict by throwing bombs alone, but everyone in the coalition agrees that we will not solve the conflict without military force. I think it was sir again. René Gade, who said wars are ending at the negotiating table. Yeah, that's right. But the question is, what brings the parties to the negotiating table? And a party that, like ISIL 20 months ago, only saw victories would never sit at the negotiating table. A party that sits at the negotiating table is a party that knows that you cannot win any more on the battlefield. If we fail to act militarily, ISIL will simply expand their caliphate with incalculable humanitarian and security policy consequences. That is one of the reasons why the motions for resolutions we will be discussing later today are inadequate. Following on from the press stories of the last few days and today's debate, there are two things I would like to make quite clear. Firstly, the government has no new position regarding the risk of civilian losses. I must state quite clearly that the line is unchanged from previous Danish broadcasts, for example. F-16 broadcasts to Iraq and Libya in 2011. Both from Denmark and from the coalition, there has been a great focus from the start on dealing with the laws of war and on protecting the civilian population in both Iraq and Syria. We're not going in that direction. There is a direct answer to Mr. Martin Lidegaard's question no new line in relation to previous motions for resolutions. Secondly, the clear point of departure for the handling of possible detainees is that there can only be transfer under an agreement with the Iraqi Government guaranteeing that the detention is dealt with in accordance with the conventions, humanely, and that the death penalty is not executed. The government will do everything we can to ensure that it is enforced every day. Having said that, I would also like to say quite clearly that ISIL cannot be defeated by military means alone. That is also why the motion for a resolution lists a large number of civilian interventions that are being taken into account. There is a need to take action on all fronts, both the hard and the softer. We need to build up the areas that are being liberated from ISIL, and we do so in cooperation with a wide variety of partners. In Iraq, we are doing so in relation to the Iraqi authorities. We are doing so in relation to the Iraqi Government and in Syria, especially in cooperation with it, is called Syrian Civil Defense. The threat to us in the form of terrorist attacks is one of the key factors in the success of a large number of countries. This is also an essential condition for our choice of approach from the Danish side. We can see that the people of Iraq and Syria are the ones most affected by everyone. They are terrorised in a way and to an extent that is unbelievable to all of us. The latest reports from Raqqa indicate that ISIL has launched the execution of doctors if they do not treat ISIL warriors before treating civilians, as well as citizens reporting on the situation on land. In the future, we will find it even more difficult to keep up with the situation, because ISIL has also banned all Internet use in Raqqa. All of this means we can't just sit back. I know that for those who want to avoid taking the yoke of responsibility on their shoulders, one can always look long enough to find an excuse for not taking part in the responsibility. I am not really surprised that anyone has that attitude, but I am surprised that a false story is being told so clearly that the government does not want to help Kurds. We have helped Kurds through the coalition, and we have last decided, last autumn, to train two new battalions of Kurdish soldiers, equip them and train them so that they are able to carry out what they are good at: the effort on land. I believe that we must help those forces who are able to survive on land. Okay, who is it primarily? These are forces such as the Iraqi security forces. They must be trained and trained, they must also be trained and trained in the laws of war. Although war is a terrible industry, there is in fact a set of rules on how to act, and we also need to teach that set of rules when we train and train Iraqi forces. It is also the same with other groups that we may choose to train and train. We're working with Syrian Democratic Forces. This is not news, by the way. It is in the answer to the questions that have been asked about it, and when you ask who we are working with and say that there are no examples of it, I have to say that it is actually in the questions and answers that have been given. That is correct, and we cannot give answers to all the groups with which we have had to work, among other things. because they have not gone through the process of approval, but we have said, in return, that there will be a process of investigation and approval, in which we will go in and look at what kind of cooperation relations they have had, what management structures there are, prior to making the extension of whom we should work with, if necessary, when we do not talk about the Iraqi army, the Iraqi militias, who are, after all, associated with the Iraqi Ministry of the Interior, or the Kurdish Peshmerga forces up from the northern part of Iraq. It is clear that we need to look into it so that we know who we are approving before we start working together. That is what has been proposed, and that is what we have been informed of. Then I would like to make a few comments on the speeches that have been made. First of all, I do not think it is a proper description that there is no clear objective in relation to what action should be taken. The aim is initially to reduce Islamic State, ISIL, as much as possible. That is to displace them from the land area they have, knock them off the rails so that they are no longer a threat, either to the Iraqi people or to the Syrian people, to turn them back so that they do not have an area where they can plan their many different terrorist attacks from. That is the strategy. At the same time, we are working to rebuild the land that is being liberated. At the same time, we are working to stop the sources of funding that have been, including illegal oil sales, including the transfers of funds that have been made. At the same time, we are working to stop the recruitment base both in relation to foreign fighters coming from Western countries such as Denmark, Belgium, France, those coming from the Arab world from countries such as Tunisia and those coming from the rest of the world. We are working with a large number of countries to stop young people being radicalised before they are radicalised. We work with a number of countries to tell about the experiences we have, positive experiences, what is called the Aarhus model or the Copenhagen model, to stop young people before they are radicalised. We are working with a large number of other countries to stop the propaganda machine that ISIL has created, which paints a picture that they are Islam's real version, and to document what they are actually doing around. We have a broad-spectrum approach to this, and we place emphasis on both the military and the civilian. I have mentioned to Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen that Britain, thankfully still away is an active part of the alliance. I would like to mention to Mr. René Gade, that what Denmark does next is not symbolic at all. We are very active, we are actually part of the spearhead in the civilian section that comes with the military. Danish skills are in demand to teach around the Arab countries that are neighbouring Syria because they know that we can do this very, very well. This is how we have said quite clearly that this is a long-term effort. We are going to be there longer and we are going to participate not just in relation to the military part. Should it prove to be quickly completed by surprisingly positive developments on land, our commitment to the area will not be complete, because much remains to be built up and much civil society needs to be re-created. To Mr. Martin Lidegaard, in support of what I have already answered about civilian casualties and prisoners of war, I would just like to say that we will, of course, stand by the military manual we have sent in consultation. A hearing is about whether something can be done better or something else, but unless we have comments that make it even stronger, that is what we have in front of us. That is the basis we want to give our soldiers, quite clearly. Let me just say, also to anticipate later questions, that it is the case that if our soldiers have a situation where prisoners have been captured, we have just established a task force in Copenhagen, consisting of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Justice, to decide what should happen, so that it is precisely they who are responsible for what decisions are made. As part of the motion for a resolution, we are sending 20 soldiers to help with such a guarding task if it were to be the case that, against expectation, we went and took prisoners of war. So we have taken all the necessary steps we can take to avoid getting into a situation where our soldiers have a case they cannot deal with on the ground. To those who, like Mr. Holger K. Nielsen says that it is a problem for us to combat ISIL in Syria, because in doing so we ease the pressure on Assad, I would say that yes, it is a consequence of fighting ISIL in Syria that the pressure on Assad is eased, but indeed also on the moderate Syrian opposition groups, on the Kurdish groups in Syria and on all of those whom ISIL has tried to push away in order to extend their caliphate. We are active in Iraq because we are invited by the Iraqi army and the Iraqi Government to help them in their defence of Iraq. We are also active in Syria because it has been shown that Syria has neither the ability nor the will to stop the use of Syria by ISIL to attack Iraq. We're not in a military conflict with Assad. We are not in a military conflict with Syria, but we are engaged in a political process which, this week, ran its third round in Geneva on negotiations to create a political transition in which Assad will be removed as the leader of Syria, where new decent conditions will be created and democratic elections will be created so that the people of Syria can choose for themselves who will lead Syria forward. When we help to repress ISIL from an area, it is clear that when we talk about Iraq, it is the Iraqi army, the Iraqi community, that must take responsibility for the areas. To the extent that we had to help in Syria to bring the ISIL back, it is of course our view that those with whom we work and with whom we have approved, together with the Syrian civil defence organisation Syrian Civil Defense, are the ones who should have the highest possible responsibility for what happens in the area afterwards. I would like to thank those parties in the Folketing who have signed up from the outset to take responsibility. I would like to thank the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance, the Conservative People's Party and, of course, also the Left and the Radical Left for having the courage to say openly that although the situation is complicated, the answer is simple: we cannot leave the responsibility behind. We cannot leave the responsibility behind and expect others to lift it if we do not contribute ourselves and therefore Denmark contributes. We're already contributing. With this resolution, we are contributing even more.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419170048	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. The first question is Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419170054	Thank you. I would like to start by asking the Foreign Minister whether he can confirm that there has been a dramatic drop in the number of British bombings, so that there have been only four in the last five weeks. And then I would like to ask the Foreign Minister whether the Foreign Minister can say from the Speaker's Chair that the Foreign Minister stands for the groups that the Government is asking the Danish Parliament to give Danish air support inside Syria.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419170125	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419170129	It is so that Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen is very much in love with a certain term called vocalism. It's okay if mr. Nikolaj Villumsen has that expression. I have another look. I have an expression that says that we examine and approve the groups with which we work. I have said that in the past, and I will repeat it here. We examine and approve the groups with which we start working. May I just mention in relation to Britain that they have been active on Wednesday 13th, Thursday 14th, Sunday 17th and Monday 18th. I haven't been back any further and check than these days, which then include from Wednesday until now a little week. But if Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen's claim should be correct, one should not have done anything until now here in the end. Then I will just have to say that I am also right in saying that Britain has not withdrawn, but is still active and only in the last few weeks have had four days in which they have participated in air attacks.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419170230	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419170233	It is clear from the written answers that there is an investigation and approval procedure in the coalition of selected groups inside Syria. Of course, the Folketing is aware of this. The question is whether the Foreign Minister can vouch for the groups that have then been approved, i.e. whether the Foreign Minister, on behalf of the government, can stand here on the parliamentary platform today and say: the Government stands for the groups that we do not want to tell the Folketing the name of, but which Denmark must give military support inside Syria.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419170302	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419170306	I don't know why, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen has fallen in love with exactly an expression called vocalism. In my world, the strongest expression is that we approve the groups. And I have told you that we are examining and approving the groups. It's a stronger expression in my world than that, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen uses, and that's why it's the expression I use. We examine and we approve the groups.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419170328	The next question is Mrs Ida Auken, the Radical Left. Okay, that was a mistake. We'll move on to the next question, and that's Mr. Knox. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419170340	Thank you for your review. The Foreign Minister points out that there has been enough debate on the call I made for us to nuance the debate. No, I am sorry, I did not actually hear the Foreign Minister say that there had been enough debate, but at least there had been a debate. I would just like to say that this is not quantity, it is not how many times we have talked about it, but it is the depth of it and the willingness to shed as much light on these matters as possible, among other things. on the part of the government. Just to give an example, now that we are sometimes told that we are a little flirty in the Alternative, not least in my own speeches: I have only now become aware that at www.politiken.dk right now there is the following about the number of forces we can actually get on land: • The resolution states that: the capacity-building contribution (the 120 current Danish soldiers in al Asad training base, red. ) in the future may also support the force contribution including the task-solving of Special Operations Forces outside established bases in Iraq, including, for example, the monitoring of unmanned aircraft and logistics. That's the kind of thing I mean. There is of course nothing wrong with that, but how come I have to find out now that we may have 180 men who can be on the ground instead of 60? It is just me who may be too inexperienced, but I would like that to be brought forward in the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419170452	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419170455	If you look at page 3 of the motion for a resolution, at the bottom of the first column, at the top of the second column, it says that the contribution we already have there must also be able to support the special operations contributions that we are sending out. I do not think that we have 180 soldiers who will then be able to come into direct battle. It is the case that our soldiers do not have the task to be in direct combat, but we have some soldiers who have the task of sharing logistics and supporting each other, and that is why we have a task where those who are there can support the special operations forces that are there. But that is nothing new; it is in the motion for a resolution, page 3, at the bottom of the first column, at the top of the second column.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419170535	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419170538	I am certainly not trying to say that it is not something that has been announced that it has not been in the papers we have been given. I just think that when we have the debate and it takes place on such a complex subject, we often end up saying that we cannot deny that there will be civilian casualties, we cannot deny that we are going to fight. But there are some openings in this resolution that make us actually have Danes involved much more in this conflict than a lot of people would think at first sight, I think. I am not saying that the information has been misinformed; I just think that these are the nuances I would like more from the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419170609	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419170612	You can only speak on the basis of your own experiences. Actually, I'm experiencing the opposite. I find that when we write that the Special Operations Forces are going, there are some Danes who think they're going down there as combat forces. When I then tell them that their task for the first is training, secondly, targeting and targeting, and then perhaps a question of being able to assist others who must participate actively but not be active in themselves, then they say: Well, is that it? We thought it was something quite different for the Danish Special Operations Forces. So I think there are differences of opinion as to whether this is a more active participation than the Danes expect, or indeed a less active participation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419170647	Then it's Mrs. Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419170651	Thank you. I therefore really believe that action must be taken against the Islamic State, both by sanctions and by military means and by ensuring that there is reconstruction in the areas where people have managed to push the Islamic State away. But so, this type of military action that you are proposing here today, I just don't think it's the solution. For one of the obvious problems is that when you choose to wage war from an F-16 fighter, it also means that a great many civilians on the ground are bombed, wounded and killed. I think it is very, very crucial that you take on, what should you say, the responsibility, it is to recognise that it is a problem that civilian casualties take place when you make these bombings with F-16 aircraft, both because it is of course a moral responsibility, because it affects people, but also because there is a military problem with many civilians being killed because it gives support to extremists. I would therefore like to hear from the Minister whether the Minister thinks it realistic when the coalition we are entering says that there are only 21 civilian casualties out of about 12 000 bombings. Does that sound realistic to the Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419170800	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419170803	I am not a military expert enough to assess what the real figure might be. I don't need to be smart about it. I just want to say this: we are doing everything we can to avoid civilian casualties. I believe that the risk of civilian casualties is present both when you have bombardments from an F-16 and when you have troops on land. I would just like to welcome what Mrs Flyvholm started by saying. Mrs Flyvholm started by saying that it is important that there is both military action and civil action. In fact, that is exactly what the government is proposing. We are even suggesting that the military action that is to be carried out on land should be carried out by local troops. We're just saying that in order for them to be able to do the necessary work with minimum civilian casualties, they need help and guidance. They need training and education, and that is the education provided by the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419170854	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419170856	I do not think, then, that the path chosen by the government here is the right one. I am afraid it will lead us into a much longer and bloodier war that will not solve the problems we have with the Islamic State. But I would just like to hear from you about the civilian casualties: does the Minister believe that there is reason to believe that there will be significantly fewer civilian casualties as a result of the bombings in Iraq and Syria than there was in Afghanistan? So, does the Minister think it is realistic that there will be much fewer? Because in Afghanistan, approximately one civilian was thought to be killed for one in ten bombings.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419170930	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419170932	I am sure that since the conflict in Afghanistan military technology has become much sharper, much better, much more precise. That's why I don't want to judge exactly how many civilian casualties there must be. Once we've been on our way, even when our F-16 plane was on our way for the first time, we've made a huge effort to minimize the risk of civilian casualties. I believe that this is our commitment, because I share the concern that if there are civilian casualties, it will push for some to be radicalised and given the motive for revenge. That is why we are doing everything we can to avoid civilian casualties.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419171008	The next question is Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419171010	Thank you. The Minister attaches great importance to stopping the recruitment of the Islamic State. But would the Minister not agree that the experience of our former military missions in the region of Afghanistan, Iraq, shows that they have not reduced the recruitment basis for various terrorist movements? On the contrary. After all, the Islamic State is a direct expiration, a direct consequence of our 2003 Iraq War. Will he not admit that a major reason for the recruitment of people to the Islamic State in Syria is the Assad regime and that it is therefore an independent problem in relation to the whole strategy here that we are actually going in and strengthening Assad, what the Minister has also admitted that we are going to do?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419171102	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419171104	They say that dear child has many names, and so does ISIL. They're called IS, ISIS, Islamic State. Their own name is ISIL, and that is why the government is using it. But if you look back, you will see that the group they are today has roots that go much further back in time than the conflict in Iraq and when Saddam Hussein was overthrown. So to claim that ISIL has come because Saddam Hussein has been overthrown is simply not to know the story behind it. It is true that what happened in Iraq was not optimal. After all, it was not optimal to remove all those who had been in senior positions because they were members of the Baath Party. That was a problem. I think we've learned something from that. When you look at what an attempt is being made to find a political solution supported by Denmark, the European Union and the United Nations in relation to Syria, it is precisely the opposite: to preserve structures, but to remove the leadership that has the political responsibility for the repression of the people of Syria. That's why our help is not a support for Assad. We want Assad gone better today than tomorrow.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419171212	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419171214	The operation in Iraq was not optimal, it is said. That's the understatement of the day, I must say. I must say that was a surprising announcement. It was a disaster! It was a disaster, and you know very well it was. This is known in the United States, and it is known in Britain. And that is why nobody wants boots on the ground again, because they know very well how it went. Yes, sir. Naser Khader will do well, but everyone who is responsible for it doesn't want boots on the ground, because that's why it's so important to discuss what we're doing when these terrorist movements can recruit new members. For that is what is fundamental: whether they can recruit new people for their organisation. We can send enough weapons, enough planes, but if they still have a basis to recruit on, it doesn't help anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419171312	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419171315	I think it was right to remove Saddam Hussein. I believe that the experience of a democracy in which the citizens of Iraq choose their own leadership is good. There are problems and challenges for the Iraqi Parliament and Iraqi democracy, and we are actively working to do something about that. However, al-Abadi is one of the politicians in Iraq... he is now prime minister... who has the same agenda regarding reforms and inclusion that we support from Danish side.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419171345	The next question is Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419171349	Thank you. The Minister would very much like to take a monopoly on taking responsibility and being able to act. And if you have any suggestions other than those put forward by the Minister, you will not take responsibility and be able to act. That is all right, and that is an expression of not wanting to take responsibility, for example. propose to support the Kurds, the Christians, the Yazids and the Arabs in Rojava, Syria, so that they can help to open the border to Turkey. But let it go. What is interesting in this connection is the attitude of the Minister to the opinion of the chairman of the Danish Parliament's Defence Committee, the Conservative rapporteur, Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, who from Parliament's platform announced that not supporting the Kurds in Syria had something to do with relations with Turkey. What is the Minister's position on this matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419171453	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419171455	I do not accept the premise. I do not recognise the premise that we do not want to support Kurds or Christians or the many other groups. We are in and support Syrian Democratic Forces, and it is precisely a mixture of enormously many different groups, both religiously and politically. So I do not accept the premise that we will not support the Kurds. We have just said that I have also repeated this here today on the platform that we support various Kurdish groups. In relation to the Kurdish peshmegas in Northern Iraq, the coalition has recently decided to train two battalions. When it comes to Kurds elsewhere, we work with them through the SDF. That is why I simply do not accept the premise that we should not want to work with Kurds.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419171539	I must draw the attention of the audience to the fact that it is forbidden to use flash cameras from the gallery. Thank you. The next question is Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go. Foreign Minister No, Søren Søndergaard again). I'm sorry. There's one more question from Mr. Søren Søndergaard. Here you go. Søren Søndergaard that the President will prevent me from speaking the second time it...). I was distracted by the audience. Here you go, sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419171552	Thank you. After all, the Minister can acknowledge the premises he wants, and he gets away with it cleverly by mixing Iraq and Syria together. The reality is that there has not been a single crown, one training lesson, one boot, one piece of ammunition, one piece of weapon for the forces defending Rojava. That is the fact, and the Minister cannot ignore it. There it was so that we just got the very interesting information from the Conservative Chairman of the Danish Parliament Defence Committee that it was, of course, also related to relations with Turkey. And then I just ask: what is the Minister's comment on that? I hope that the Minister will be able to deal with this in his second answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419171642	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419171644	We support the groups that we believe are effective in achieving the same goal as us, namely to combat ISIL. Who we support is something we in the coalition have agreed on. Sir. Søren Søndergaard's claim is that we do not want to support, for example. Kurds. Now I have found it here: the Syrian Democratic Forces are a collection of Syrian armed groups including Syrian Kurds, Sunniara, Turkmen and Christians fighting ISIL in northern and eastern Syria. That's who we're working with. So why don't we pack up the myth that we don't want to work with Kurds, away?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419171718	Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419171721	I would like to begin by saying that it would be infinitely remote for me to help take the floor from Mr Seligman. Søren Søndergaard. That would hardly be wise, so it was good that we got that error corrected. But I'd like to ask the Secretary of State something else. Now I was taught earlier in the debate that it was a disgrace to start asking what groups we were supposed to support in Syria, because it was like the cover of confidentiality. Now I understand from the Foreign Minister that the Foreign Minister has fallen in love with an expression, namely to examine and approve, and I would just like to hear: what exactly is in it? So what criteria are there for examining and approving these groups? And can the Minister confirm that it is the coalition and not the government that is investigating and approving these groups?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419171812	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419171814	It is the case that, in the context of the approval process, the coalition is implementing the so-called vetting. This is where the level of management and the structures of command are examined. The emphasis is on whether they want to support the coalition's fight against ISIL and, in connection with the approval procedure, the leaders must also declare that they are committed to respecting human rights and the laws of war and that they will receive training in what are called the laws of war. So that's basically what's in the process. It is publicly known that the coalition works with the SDF. What other groups we may choose to work with have been informed several times, both today and at the meeting of the Ministry of Defence. It is confidential in the interests of the security of the groups. So I cannot go into exactly which groups it is until it has been decided that, for example, we should be able to do something about it. works with SDF, but the process behind is as described.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419171912	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419171915	But now the situation is such that it is today the Folketing that is giving the government a mandate for this, and therefore it would also be more reassuring if it were so that it was the government that could say that it was there that the approval procedure was going to take place. That is also why it will be interesting to hear whether the government can, let us just say, vouch for the approval procedure that is, because it will not be one that is in the hands of the government. It's gonna be someone who's gonna be in the coalition's hands. It's nice enough for the Folketing to know that when the Folketing gives a mandate to the government to send troops abroad, it's the government that's responsible for these criteria.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419171953	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419171954	It goes without saying that a procedure that we are proposing to follow is something that the government also supports. We support a procedure whereby the coalition investigates and approves which groups to work with and where training of these groups is carried out, among other things. The laws of war.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419172016	Thank you to the Secretary of State. Then we move on to the second round, and for the time being there is a rapporteur who has signed up here, and that is Mr Beazley. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419172037	It is a great decision that the Danish Parliament has to make here today. It's a big decision to decide to go to war. And it is not least a great decision to go to war, bearing in mind the previously failed wars in Iraq, Libya and Afghanistan that Denmark has waged. And I must say, I am deeply, deeply puzzled. I am deeply astonished that we are in the situation where the Foreign Minister was unable to announce here very recently from Parliament's platform that he is in favour of the groups selected by the coalition for air support in Syria. In this process by Enhedslisten and other parties of the Folketing, we have asked the government numerous questions in order to get a full overview of what kind of groups the government will give Danish military air support to inside Syria. We have held consultations that we have asked during the first and now second readings here in the Parliamentary Chamber, but we cannot get a full insight into who is going to have air support from Denmark in Syria. Frankly, I do not know what the government wants to hide, but I know that parts of the coalition support extreme Islamist groups. I know that the United States has previously supported groups in Syria that have then jumped over to the other side and are now fighting with extreme Islamists.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419172222	There must be more tranquillity in the Chamber in respect of the rapporteur. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419172227	This is not a debate about whether or not Denmark should fight ISIL. The Enhedslisten believes that Denmark should fight ISIL, but we are against the government's proposal because we fear that it will strengthen ISIL, Assad and other extreme Islamist groups, even that extreme Islamists may end up receiving air support directly from Denmark. The experience of Denmark's failed wars in Iraq, Libya and Afghanistan shows that we cannot achieve stability and peace by supporting oppressive regimes and extreme Islamists. The unitary list will instead support local democratic and secular forces. We voted in favour of transporting arms to the Kurds in Northern Iraq, and we proposed extending support to the Kurds in Northern Iraq to the Kurds in northern Syria. The Enhedslisten then collected money for the defence of Kobane, which at that time was besieged by ISIL. I am proud of that, but I find it embarrassing that the majority of the Folketing at that time failed to resist in Kobane. Now a majority in the Folketing would like to give air support to the Kurds in Syria, but a majority in the Folketing will not work to involve the Kurds in the peace process in Geneva. Honestly, that's absurd. When we had a situation in which Kobane was falling, a majority in the Folketing did not dare to support the opposition for fear of the Turkish Government and the Turkish President Erdogan. Now we have a situation in which peace negotiations are under way and then the majority of the Folketing dare not work to include the Kurds and other secular groups in the peace negotiations, for fear of President Erdogan. Honestly, it is time for the fear of the Turkish Government to end the majority of this Parliament. A short time ago, here in the Folketing, we had a visit from the chairman of the Syrian Kurds, Saleh Muslim, who visited the Committee on Foreign Affairs in the Danish Parliament. His message was clear. He said: we have plenty of men and women who want to fight ISIL, but we need weapons. Let us, however, listen to the secular democratic forces in Syria, let us support them. That is what Enhedslisten is proposing. That is what Enhedslisten has been fighting for for years now. I know that time is running out up here on the platform, but I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for their honesty in this debate. The Danish People's Party Mrs Marie Krarup has been quite clear in this debate. She has said that the Danish People's Party is prepared to support the hell itself, even if it is Islamists in Syria, and give them Danish air support without having any assurance whether these groups will attack Denmark in the future. And frankly, that could be a problem. It may then be a problem that Denmark can now end up in a situation where we give air support to groups that later come up to attack Denmark, and that is why it is so important that the Foreign Minister comes up here and answers whether he can vouch for the groups that the government believes should have air support from Denmark. I find it deeply, deeply worrying what the government is proposing here. I fear that it strengthens the extreme forces and that is why we in the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party are voting against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419172559	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419172607	It might seem almost unnecessary to speak in the second round, as there was nothing new in Nikolaj Villumsen's speech in the second round. That's why there's gonna be a lot of repetitions in this over the first round. But there were so many myths and misinterpretations in Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen's speech, that they should not be uncontroversial. First of all, I have said quite clearly that I believe that the strongest expression one can use is that we examine and approve the groups with which we work. For me, these are stronger words than those which Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen so desperately wants to silence me. We are investigating and voicing with which groups the coalition should work, precisely because we want to avoid working with Islamist and extremist groups. We want to work with those who have the same goal as us, namely to fight for an Iraq where ISIL has penetrated and removed and where the Iraqi people can live peacefully. And we will help them both militaryly and civilly build up their country. We have as our goal in Syria that ISIL must be removed and that requires military force and that Assad must be gone so that the Syrian people are free to choose their own leader. We are working on this in a military track with regard to ISIL and a military track with regard to Assad. It is not true that we in the government do not want to help Kurds. We in the government, together with a broad majority in the Folketing, will help Kurds in both Iraq and Syria, who have the same goal as us, namely both to fight ISIL and to remove Assad. It is the case that, in relation to air support, we cannot face the situation that some group can ask for air support independently. It will be the case that a decision on air support must go through the coalition, where there is a Danish soldier, a so-called red card holder, who ultimately has a mandate and an opportunity to say no, if he thinks it is a mission beyond what Danish air forces should participate in. We have actively participated in bringing together the Syrian opposition. We have had a special envoy from Denmark to the Syrian opposition to talk to all the groups that are there, and I know that there are Kurds participating in the HNC negotiating group that is in Geneva these days to negotiate under the leadership of the United Nations with the Syrian regime to get what we want, namely a transition where Assad has to leave. So the story that there are no Kurds in the negotiating delegation is not true. The story that we do not want to support Kurds is not true. We have helped Kurds militarily on land, and we are helping them politically in relation to the pressure that must be on Assad for him to disappear from Syria. We have done so up to now, and we are doing so with the resolution now, and we are continuing to do so no matter how many myths Enhedslisten tries to speak out.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419172918	Thank you, Minister. There are a few brief comments, the first is from Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419172920	It is true that there is a Kurdish delegation in Geneva, those chosen by Turkey and Saudi Arabia. They have absolutely no popular support within the Kurdish territories of Syria, and that is the fundamental problem. The Foreign Minister says that the groups that Denmark, if voted 'yes' in a few moments, will be examining and approving will be given military support, i.e. air support, inside Syria. My simple question to the Foreign Minister is simply: can the Foreign Minister vouch for the groups that have been examined and then approved?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419172954	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419172958	When we examine and approve groups, it is to ensure that it is groups that will work according to the same objective and that it is groups that will work on the same principles. As I mentioned in my reply to Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen in the past, it is the case that we also train the leaders of groups with whom we work, in what is called the laws of war, that we examine what is a management structure, what are some cooperation structures there. And that is why I am comfortable with the examination and approval procedure that exists. In relation to who is taking part, we are going to have a debate here which we shall have later on on on a motion for a resolution. Then I have been informed that the rest of the opposition does not want the direct participation of some Kurdish groups because they do not believe that they have clearly distanced themselves from Assad. On the other hand, there are Kurdish groups, not just one, but several groups, in the opposition delegation that is now negotiating in Geneva.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419173054	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419173058	I would just like to try again: I mean, we are in the situation that, after countless questions, we have not been able to get a full overview of what kind of groups Denmark, according to the government's position, is supposed to provide air support inside Syria. We haven't been able to get the names of these groups. If you cannot get the names, there could be the possibility that the government said that the Foreign Minister said from the Parliament's platform: I stand for those groups. I would like to hear that from the Foreign Minister: yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419173127	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419173130	Now I am choosing my own words, and I am happy to repeat them, because the question is the same as in the previous four rounds that have been. I think that a selection and approval procedure, in which we approve which groups we work with, is a much stronger term to use than Mr. Nikolaj Villumsens has given his consent. I use the strongest expression that I have, and that is that we examine and approve the groups with which we work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419173156	Thank you. The next question is Mr. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419173201	I will not go to the platform again. I think we have had a very good debate and that Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen followed it up well. That is why I would just like to ask two brief questions: is it the view of the Foreign Minister that when we send an increased contribution of strength here in the Assembly today, that is to say an increased effort on the part of war, we in Denmark have control of how it is going to go with the troops we are sending out? Are we in control of the fact that the hostages we may be taking do not fall into the hands of Iraqis who may choose to punish them with death?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419173246	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419173248	First of all, I would like to turn to the expression hostages; I think it was also a statement that it was used. We're not taking hostages. We can get into such a situation, which is unthinkable, because our task is not offensive, but one can imagine the situation that Danish soldiers will have to hold an enemy. To this situation, we have sent some people in the Danish force contribution who can handle the task. And we have said that we will not hand anyone over to the Iraqis if there is no agreement. We are seeking an agreement with Iraq to extradite and a promise that the prisoners being extradited will be treated humanely and that the death penalty will not be carried out.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419173334	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419173336	We have also asked the last question a few times today, but I do not think we have received an answer. It's also a difficult question. But when it is said that we are going to be there for a longer period of time, then this is taking responsibility for what we are setting in motion and the good intention we have to come down to help when is it really we can say that it was if IS is actually spreading to many other parts of the world? Well, how long is this gonna take? Is that more than five years? That is one question. And the second question is: should we also bomb the other places where IS starts to flourish?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419173407	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419173409	We must, precisely because ISIL is spreading to other places, also work on the other four tracks I have mentioned, in other words to rebuild, so that we can see that life under a free elected government is better than under the ISIL regime; to stop the sources of funding so that they do not have the opportunity to spread; to stop the recruitment base so that they do not get so many young men and young women from the rest of the world; and to counteract their propaganda, by educating people on the ground to tell how life really is under ISIL. I have no plans for us to have military engagement anywhere other than what we are adopting here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419173446	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419173453	I can't remember now I haven't been sitting all my life in here in this hall any such unclear answers, and I don't remember sending people off on such a dangerous and complicated mission as this one. Unfortunately, all too often, in the time I have been here, we have had to decide to send people out. I do not understand why the Minister does not tell us what groups it is. That is why I would like to ask: does the Minister himself know what groups are? Does the Minister, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Denmark, know who these groups are talking so much about, who are approved and controlled and things and matters, or is it only the coalition's inner circle who knows?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419173534	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419173537	If you read through questions and answers, you will know that there are a large number of these questions where we say: we do not have the groups we have not approved them yet, we have not examined them yet, and therefore, of course, we do not have the names of them either. We have told you which procedure should be examined, what kind of a vetting procedure should be examined in order to reach the groups, but when they are not elected, I cannot reply to Mr Tugendhat's question. Christian Juhl's question about who they are. We are in the process of a selection procedure in which we examine management structure, cooperation relations. We are examining whether they will be able to accept the laws of war and receive training in the laws of war, but as long as they have not been chosen, I cannot, of course, say that I know the groupings, and whether the enlargement process has been mentioned several times both in the Defence Committee and here in the Chamber, that it takes place in confidence.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419173631	Thank you. Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419173633	Well, that's what I said, too. It's all quite unclear. We're looking for groups to work with. Some of them we know. We're looking for an agreement with the Iraqis on prisoners. We are trying to put it in such a position that we cannot hit civilians. Can the Minister himself not see that this is quite, quite unclear? The minister should be sent back to investigate this and then come and ask for a commitment when these things are once in place so that the Folketing can do this on a clear and clarified basis. This is no good, sir. Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419173709	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419173713	As I said earlier in the debate: those who do not have the will to bear the yoke of responsibility can always find an excuse for not participating. We have replied directly to question 5 to the question raised earlier about which groups it is. We have said quite plainly that there are challenges when war is waged. There's a risk of civilian casualties. Yes, there is. Unfortunately, this has been the case in all the missions that I, and I am sure also those who have been sitting there before me, have been involved in adopting in this Chamber. There is also another risk. There's a risk if you don't act. Then ISIL will spread more. Then ISIL will have the opportunity to have their reign of terror over more and more people. Twenty months ago, when ISIL really blew through, they were thought to be unstoppable. Now an international coalition has shown that they can be stopped. We are in the process of building up local forces so that we can do much better from the ground than we could 20 months ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419173811	Thank you. The next brief remark, sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419173816	The discussion can, of course, be long when you do not just not answer the questions but do not relate to them at all. I put the question to the Minister earlier about the clear statement made by the Conservative Chairman of the Parliamentary Defence Committee that part of the reason why we would not support the Syrian Kurds and Christians and the alliance they form on the ground with arms and equipment, etc., was the concern for Turkey. And the minister doesn't relate to it. But in a way, I think the Minister has replied. The Minister has responded by repeating the Turkish side of the matter in the criticism of YPG and YPJ, that of the Turkish propaganda service, that the Kurds in Syria cannot be trusted in the fight against Assad. That is a purely Turkish argument. That is an argument which the Minister has put forward here, and that is, in fact, a kind of answer to the question I asked earlier.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419173917	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419173920	Again: I do not agree with the premise of the question. Sir. Søren Søndergaard's premise is that we do not want to work militarily with Kurds in Syria. It's wrong. I want to work with Kurds in Syria, I want to work with Christians in Syria. I want to work with those groups in Syria that have the same goal as me, namely to have ISIL stopped militaryly. The question raised was the question of a negotiating delegation with regard to Geneva. What we are discussing here today is the question of a military contribution to combating ISIL. I fully recognise that Kurds in the northern part of Syria have been some of the most effective forces to stop ISIL, and that is why, of course, I also want to seek cooperation with the Kurds who have the same objective as me on the issue of ISIL.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419174007	Sir. Søren Søndergaard? No. The next brief comment and the final one are from Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419174018	Thank you so much. It's just to ask about something the Secretary of State mentioned here at the end. In the answers we have received so far, about what groups we have to work with, we have been told that these are the Syrian Democratic Forces, and otherwise there are some other groups, but we cannot say what they are for some other groups, for example. the allies' desire not to disclose it. Now the Foreign Minister says here that it cannot be disclosed because they have not yet been approved at all. So, what is it here: is it because they have not been approved, or is it for the sake of allies that they do not want to tell us who these other groups are?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419174100	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419174103	I just have to read from the beginning of the answer to question 5: Denmark has not selected groups to be supported in Syria, but under the auspices of the coalition there is a certain degree of military cooperation with groupings in Syria. We have not therefore selected the groups with which Danish soldiers are to work. I would therefore like to say in reply to whether I can mention which groups: No, as they have not yet been selected and approved, I cannot mention which groups.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419174132	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419174136	As far as I understand the Minister and as I understand the answer, the coalition has some cooperation groups in Syria, where we can only inform one of them, the others being left in the dark. And I find it deeply, deeply problematic that you are sending Danish F-16s and special forces into a war where we do not know exactly who the partners are. So wouldn't the Minister just one last time say a little more about why it is not felt that it is relevant for the Danish people to know who we should be working with here?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419174210	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419174213	It is considered for military reasons to be in the interests of their groupings that we do not mention the names of who it is that it is subject to confidentiality. We have had a long discussion on this in the Parliamentary Chamber and there has been a discussion of it in confidence with the Defence Committee in the Ministry of Defence to explain as carefully as possible within the confidentiality framework of the coalition for whom we work with.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419174243	Thank you to Eva Flyvholm, thank you to the Minister. As no one else has asked for the floor, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419174251	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. That concludes voting time. In favour of voting 90 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), against 19 (EL, ALT and SF), abstentions 0. The draft parliamentary resolution has been adopted [and will now be sent to the Minister for Foreign Affairs].
ParlaMint-DK_20160419174337	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendments has ended and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419174417	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2 of minorities (DF), elected by a majority (other committees)? They are adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419174431	The debate is now about the proposal as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the proposal? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419174438	A vote shall be taken [on the final adoption of the proposal] and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. In favour 110 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The draft parliamentary resolution has been adopted [and will now be sent to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior].
ParlaMint-DK_20160419174509	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419174537	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. That concludes voting time. In favour, 44 (DF, EL, LA and KF) voted against 66 (S, V, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected. I would recommend that there should be no demonstration from the gallery in any way, otherwise there will be no access to the debates in this Chamber. And otherwise I'm gonna have to ask the cops to step in, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419174634	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419174656	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419174715	Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case, and that concludes the debate. We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419174742	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1 and 2 outside the report adopted by the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior. They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419174802	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419174839	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419174901	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-7, elected by a majority (Committee with the exception of IA)? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419174921	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419174956	The Minister for Industry and Growth has indicated that he wishes to accept Amendment No. 1 of the report back. Is there any wish to accept this amendment? As this is not the case, the amendment has lapsed. Does anyone wish to comment further? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419175042	If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 2-4 adopted by the committee, or on Amendment No. 2-4. 7 and 8 outside the report by the Minister for Industry and Growth? They are adopted. Then we shall vote on Amendment No. 5 of a minority (EL), joined by another minority (SF). A vote can be taken. in favour of 13 (EL and SF), against 96 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419175154	I would like to ask you to remain calm in the Chamber. Please leave the Chamber in good order so that there will be sensitivity for the remaining ones. The debate is open and I give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419175235	It is a motion for a resolution which is, after all, somewhat on the same page as what we have been discussing, namely the question of whether the Democratic Union Party, PYD, and other secular groups should be involved in the peace talks on Syria. First of all, I would like to say that the conflict in Syria is a tragedy, first and foremost for the Syrian people, who have suffered for five years now from this extreme brutality and terror, for which the Assad regime and violent extremists in particular are responsible. Denmark has been active from the start of the conflict to help the Syrians and other civilians in the region. Few countries have made as much effort as Denmark. At the same time, from the outset, we have engaged in the fight against ISIL. Denmark contributes substantially, especially with the adoption we have just made, to achieving greater stability and peace in the region. The decision on the continued Danish involvement in Iraq and Syria to combat ISIL has now been taken with the adoption of motion for a resolution B 108. With the new resolution, Denmark will continue to make a solid military contribution and will also provide substantial support to the civilian area. This autumn, the government is launching a new Danish 3-year stabilisation programme for Iraq and Syria. Denmark will, within the framework of this programme, inter alia: continue to support the UN-led negotiations aimed at promoting a peaceful solution to the conflict in Syria, as we have done up to now. This is because the conflict in Syria is not just about ISIL. The main cause of the conflict is to a large extent the Assad regime, which in 2011 struck violently against peaceful popular protests. Since then, the Assad regime has fought the Syrian population with the greatest brutality and created a spiral of violence with tragic consequences for Syria and neighbouring countries. It must be stopped and a solution to the conflict must be achieved through political negotiations. On the part of the government, we, like the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, believe that the negotiations require sincere and active involvement of all relevant parties in the conflict, in particular from the Assad regime and the Syrian opposition. The essential point here is that it should be the Syrians themselves who decide who should represent them at the negotiating table. The best way to ensure a legitimate and sustainable negotiating group that can deliver the results we all hope for in order to achieve lasting peace in Syria is for them to choose their own representatives. It is therefore also positive that large parts of the Syrian opposition met in Riyadh in Saudi Arabia at the end of December last year. Here they agreed on the composition of the opposition delegation to participate in the forthcoming peace negotiations under the auspices of the United Nations. In this context, I noted that some Kurdish actors are actually members of the opposition delegation. This concerns, for example, KNC. The fact that PYD is not part of the Syrian opposition delegation is partly due to the fact that other opposition actors in Syria do not see PYD as a party working for the same goals as them. Nor has PYD itself moved closer to the Syrian opposition coalition, which is the internationally recognised representative of the Syrian opposition. In fact, we would like the Danish side to see the opposition reach agreement that as broad and representative a delegation as possible is involved in the peace negotiations. But it is the Syrians themselves who are responsible for that decision. We can't dictate anything to them. We must respect the opposition's right to form their own negotiating delegation. In recent months, Russia has been trying to interfere with the opposition delegation, among other things. by pushing to formally incorporate PYD into the negotiations. A large part of the other opposition sees it as an attempt to divide the opposition and thus weaken its position during the negotiations. We must be careful not to take the errands of other countries by pushing for the inclusion of individual groups in the negotiations. We are better served by supporting the overall peace process. We do best to support the work of the UN Special Envoy for Syria, Staffan de Mistura, in the negotiations. Denmark should not make this process more difficult. That is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution tabled by the Enhedslisten and the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419175654	Thank you, Minister. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419175704	Thank you. A very short time ago, a majority here in the Danish Parliament decided that Denmark should give air support to the Syrian Democratic Forces in the future. Among them, the Kurds are a main actor. What we are now discussing here is whether the political parties, not the armed organisations, but the political parties of the Syrian Democratic Forces and others should be allowed to participate in the peace negotiations. Until now, Turkey and Saudi Arabia have blocked their participation. It is true that those groups in Syria which receive support from Turkey and Saudi Arabia must, of course, demand that the Kurds be kept out. Otherwise, of course, they will not be able to obtain the support of Turkey because it is a demand on the Turkish side. The question is: Does Denmark believe that secular groups that want a democratic Syria in the future should be allowed to be part of the peace negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419175800	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419175803	What the motion for a resolution is about is something else. It is a question of interfering with who is to represent the Syrian opposition. I do not think that Denmark should interfere in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419175820	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419175822	The situation is, of course, that a great many people are interfering, and there is actually a country called Turkey which insists and which has said that it is their totally red line that the Kurds are kept out of these negotiations. The question is, of course, whether the majority of the people should accept from the government that the Turkish Government must dictate that secular groups should not sit in the peace talks. Because that's what's real. Should the Turkish Government have a right of veto over which groups Denmark should work to be included in the peace negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419175852	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419175854	Denmark is working on a very clear objective, namely that the Syrian opposition itself chooses who they are to be represented by in the negotiating delegation. And when I say that we assume that they have to choose it for themselves, it means that we naturally oppose other countries interfering in the selection process, just as much as I oppose Denmark interfering in the selection process. I think it is the Syrians themselves who should take that decision without interference from outside parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419175922	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419175927	Thank you. Of course, when we are very interested in this, it is also because we believe that, if there is to be a stable and lasting peace in Syria and democratic development, it is very, very important that the central groups are involved in these peace talks, especially that some of the groups that actually want to have an inclusive Syria, where there is room for different peoples and religious minorities, men and women, etc., are also represented in these negotiations. In the previous debate, the Foreign Minister had such and so little doubt as to what might actually be thought of PYD and that the Turkish Foreign Minister has pointed out that they support Assad, which I really do not think is the case, so I would just like to hear: what does the Foreign Minister think of PYD himself? Is it not an actor who could be very sensible to be involved in these negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419180020	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419180020-2	As tempting as it is, I do not go in and give grades to individual groups in relation to who should participate. I would like the Syrian negotiating delegation to cover as widely as possible those forces that want secular, freely elected Syrian regime afterwards and that they participate. But I am not going in there and putting my lot in the bowl with one group or another, because I do not think it is our job, either on the Danish side or on the other, to interfere in the selection process with regard to whom the negotiating delegation should be made up.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419180054	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419180055	So let me turn it around a little bit. Does the Foreign Minister not think that it is a bit worrying that a party that represents an area in Syria that is geographically the size of Denmark and that has some sensible and inclusive democratic principles is not included in this peace process? Does the Foreign Minister not think that this is a little bit worrying about the prospects for how to achieve a stable and peaceful Syria in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419180124	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419180125	I would like to see as many of the organisations and parties as possible wishing to replace Assad and a transition, so that we have a free Syria, led by an elected government after a free and fair election, taking part in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419180147	The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419180152	I understand that the Foreign Minister cannot really support the motion for a resolution. It's actually an honest case. I also understand that grades cannot be given to individual groups, because there are many conditions. Nor can we stamp the group here simply because we want them to be included in the peace negotiations. My question then is whether one could imagine an amendment that would make it possible here if the overall ambition of the Enhedslisten and our proposal is that we would like to include all the groups that can guarantee peace in the long term. Could the Foreign Minister see an opportunity for the Syrians, and we fully agree on this, to decide for ourselves how to move forward, and to judge for ourselves who should be with us that we can see the holes in the cheese, so that we can see where some are missing, so that it can be a complete picture if we assume that there are interests there that want to keep some out? Is it not our job, when we send soldiers down there, to make this as meaningful as possible, to ensure that we get the holes in the cheese that the parties themselves cannot see/will see because of external actors? We can have a discussion about whether to dictate it or not, but could this be corrected so that we get everyone involved?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419180255	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419180257	If I understand the question correctly, it is based on an idea that I am opposed to mentioning PYD. I would like to be against it, no matter which group was taken out and said: we must bring it with us. Frankly, I believe that it should be the Syrian opposition that, even without outside interference, chooses whom to be represented in the Geneva negotiations, and that is why I do not support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419180327	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419180331	Can we reasonably say that Turkey in particular could have an interest in keeping Kurdish groups out of these peace negotiations? And if you can reasonably say so, will it not in one way or another destroy the whole peace process from the start? Because once we have made something to remind us of peace, there will be a group of Kurds who are guaranteed to be very divided and have several factions who will sit and say: we were not heard, we are not part of it at all, and we have not got our whims.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419180400	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419180402	Now, I hope that this will not end up with some who are going to have chunks, but will end up with the people having freedom. And I would like to arrest the idea that there are no Kurds participating in the HNC negotiating group. It's already there. There are Kurdish groups involved. Then I know that PYD isn't part of it, but just as I don't want to keep anyone out, I don't want to argue that somebody is going in. I believe that it is up to the Syrians themselves to find that solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419180431	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419180435	I have to admit, I'm absolutely amazed. What does the Minister mean by that it is Syria itself that must decide who should take part in the negotiations? Perhaps the Minister said it wrong here last time and thought it was the Syrian opposition that must decide for itself. I mean, how's that gonna happen? After all, we have seen how Kurdish forces in Aleppo are being attacked by the other opposition groups. They're killing civilians. I mean, how's that gonna happen? If you take the view that this is something you leave to the Syrians themselves, without having an opinion and without pressing where you can now push to promote that opinion, then you have said that not everyone is represented. It is quite contrary to the proposal of the Kurds, who have said that everyone should have the opportunity to participate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419180534	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419180536	I don't know if sir. Søren Søndergaard has listened. I said several times, also last time, that the Syrians themselves must choose who they are to be represented by. I actually thought that Mr. Søren Søndergaard well enough followed with the knowledge that there has been a process in which the Syrian opposition groups have met in Riyadh and formed a negotiating group to represent them in the negotiations in Geneva led by the UN under Staffan de Mistura. If not, I should like to refer to the answers in different committees where we have told about the process in which the opposition has been brought together in Riyadh and from there elected a negotiating group.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419180615	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419180618	Well, it's a self-appointed opposition. How can it be said that some people cannot be allowed to participate in the peace negotiations on an area which Mrs Flyvholm said is the size of Denmark? And how can we say that those who are the strongest forces in the fight against Islamic State must not be involved? How can you keep them out? What peace do you think you're getting out of it? That was the starting point for all of this, and that is why the myth, which the Minister colportes, has come to us that you are kind to Assad. The Kurds have a dispute with the opposition because they would not promise what will happen to the Kurds after they have removed Assad.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419180656	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419180657	I don't know if it's sir. Søren Søndergaard's temperament, which means he doesn't listen properly. I didn't say that anyone should be excluded. I was attacked for why I want to rule someone out. I don't want to rule anyone out. I don't want to. If that was how I could be allowed to decide, then I think everyone should participate. But at the heart of this is that where Mr. Søren Søndergaard thinks it's Mr. Søndergaard. Søren Søndergaard, who is to decide who is to represent the Syrians, I think that this is something they should choose for themselves. And it is the case that Syria, under the leadership of the United Nations, has formed a negotiating group. And it is the one who is taking part in the UN-led negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419180736	Thank you. I'm just gonna find out if mr. Christian Juhl wishes to speak. Mr. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419180744	Yeah, that's why I push the button. I am always very pleased to be allowed to speak when the Minister is on the floor. I think the Minister has mentioned how many groups there are in Syria at the moment. I don't remember the number, but it's a very, very large number, and it's so big that they probably can't be in a meeting room at once. And teaching it will be very difficult to get an agreement between all the groups. Does the Minister not think that we have an experience in the cargo? The first peace debate ended wrong because we ruled out some. The second peace debate ended wrong because we excluded some. We left Iraq in such a way that we helped create a climate of which a group called ISIL grew. Is it not time for us to try a little structured to work on peace and conflict resolution in a completely different way from the random way it appears at the moment if we are to have a result?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419180852	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419180854	I believe that a very structured peace and conflict solution is under way. A political debate is under way in which UN-approved negotiating groups sit for the opposition and negotiate with the regime for a transition on the basis of UN Security Council Resolution 2254. A military task is under way to remove ISIL from Iraq and Syria. And a civilian task is under way to rebuild the areas that have been freed from ISIL's occupation. In this way, we are slowly making community building, while at the same time having the political negotiations to make a transition, so that Assad leaves the post and it will be possible for the Syrians to have free choices about who will lead their own country. It is true that there are somewhere between 1500 and 1600 different groupings in the tables I have seen. Most of them, however, are subgroups of others, but taking them all together is a current bid 1500-1600 different groupings. Of course, they cannot all negotiate. That is why a negotiating delegation, the HNC, has been elected.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419181002	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419181004	I fear that we will end up, as we did with Geneva I and Geneva II, if some of those who have really put their backs on some of the fighting down there do not sit at the negotiating table. That is something to be feared today, and I think the Minister himself can. At that time, we excluded central groups. Then you can say so much that those groups chose the right thing. However, it is important for everyone to say to themselves: we must sit next to those we do not like if we are to have peace. I believe that the Minister is talking about Syria and the Syrian opposition. The Syrian opposition is many things, and Syria, after this war, is also many things in my view. I don't believe in one society, one country with one leadership after this chaos.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419181051	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419181053	There's such a shadow war going on here that I just don't understand. The Enhedslisten is attacking me on the grounds that I don't want PYD in the negotiations. I don't have a problem with them being no problem. If the Syrian opposition had said that in our collection of negotiators we bring some from PYD, then I would have accepted it. What I oppose is Enhedslisten's idea that Enhedslisten and the Alternative and through them the Danish Parliament must decide who will negotiate for the Syrians. I think that would be wrong and harmful.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419181129	Thank you, Minister. That brings us to the rapporteur's line. The first is sir. Nick Hækkerup, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419181151	I believe that the possibility of creating peace in Syria without Assad in power rests on the existence of a fairly unified opposition. It has succeeded in putting together the so-called high negotiating committee so that it contains people who each have the support of important parts of the opposition. I do not think that is the same as saying that the composition of the negotiating committee is unproblematic. As I have been informed, there are, for example, participants. An Islamist rebel group, and by the way, according to the proposal that we have before us, the Kurdish party PYD is not part of it. But the question is whether it is legitimate for Denmark to begin interfering independently in the composition of the negotiating committee. In the view of the Social Democrats, it must first of all be the Syrian opposition that must decide who should be included in their negotiating delegation. And is it not more damaging than it promotes the process if all sorts of people are to interfere in the composition of the negotiating committee, or if the personal preferences that we now have are to play a part? We cannot support the proposal that lies because we do not believe that it helps the peace process.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419181317	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419181321	I am pleased that the rapporteur, like the rapporteur, recognises that there is a problem with the fact that some groups are not included. What we are proposing here is not that the Folketing should be able to decide completely who should be involved in these peace negotiations. What we are proposing is, in fact, very quiet, that we in the Danish Parliament agree that, through the European Union and the United Nations and in relation to our alliance partners, we can help to hold discussions and press for this very, very large and important group, PYD, which is therefore a party representing a very large area of Syria, to be included in the peace process. Why does the rapporteur not think it reasonable that Denmark should actively hold the discussions in the places we have the opportunity to do so, in order to encourage that inclusion?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419181416	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419181417	It is basically because I do not think we should interfere. Is it not the wish that we should interfere, precisely what others are criticized for doing in the explanatory statement of the motion for a resolution? In other words, as I read the motion for a resolution here, one of the things you are looking for is that there are other people in this case, Turkey, who are interfering in what the negotiating delegation should look like.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419181446	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419181447	The problem here is precisely that Turkey is blocking the participation of this large, important group in the peace negotiations. What we want is for Denmark to join us in saying: let us open up the way for the key players to be involved in the peace negotiations. We think it is very, very important that it should be opened up, otherwise we do not believe that a lasting and lasting peace can be achieved. I do not understand why the rapporteur does not want to help us to open up the way for more of these key groups to join us.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419181520	The minister. Sorry, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419181522	Unfortunately, the world is not that good, but it may be that good. Anyway, throughout the argument put forward, the essence is again that there are some who interfere unfairly. I'm just saying, I think we're better off not interfering.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419181550	The next brief remark is from Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419181555	I am about to agree with the latter when it comes to sending bombers over Syria. But that's not what we're talking about right now. Does the Socialist rapporteur not agree that the first and second Geneva negotiations failed because, first and foremost, they were very, very disapproving of their opponents, their enemies, in other words those they did not like, and therefore nothing sustainable came out of it? Does the rapporteur not agree that if you are to negotiate a peace, you must have your opponent commit to the peace agreement that you can make at the table you sit around? I believe that everything else just and without making a comparison would have been quite unheard of if we had said, after 5 May 1945, that we are now negotiating peace, which has not done anything and is politicians. And the Conservatives and the Communists and others who have been in the Resistance, we just hold the rod because there are others who believe that some certain should sit at the table. I guess there wouldn't have been a good peace solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419181708	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419181710	The last picture I just had a little difficulty following. However, I heard the fundamental question that if the negotiating delegations had been made differently, the peace process would have been further advanced by now. It is therefore, I am sure, counter-factual history, in which case you move into, which surely does not lead to anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419181736	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419181737	I've never learned how to use that expression in a counteractual way. In other words, if you do not learn from your experience, you will not be better at the third or fourth debate, or what kind of a number debate you will succeed in. I think, after all, that the international community has learned something from its first Geneva debate. Some of them have been brought along, and they have to be obliged to do so. In the second debate, we were also wiser, and that means that at the third debate we now have more. In other words, one has to try to piece it together so that it is realistic that peace can come out of it. I don't suppose it's anything to talk counter-practical. It is something to say that one learns from one's experiences while walking.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419181820	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419181821	I think that's what Mr. Christian Juhl was supposed to go. For it is a grip that Enhedslisten so often serves, namely to stay out of decision-making. And then you become very clever about what would then have happened if others had just done as Enhedslisten had now said.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419181845	The next brief remark is from Mr. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419181850	I would like to hear how we are going to deal with this motion for a resolution, so that the rapporteur considers it reasonable for Denmark to interfere. How can we do something here, so that the military action that we are taking in with us and where we take a great deal of responsibility and interfere, as we have heard earlier today, will be responsible? How can we go in through the track that we, among other things, have. in the alternative, is it quite right for Denmark, that is, where we go in and participate in conflict resolution and take it on board that it is not easy either, but say that we see a problem here, that we see, for example, that Turkey is keeping some outside? It could be anyone else. How can we go in and turn this into a proposal in which we are trying to create such broad support for the peace process, so that we get the right result in the end, so that we take responsibility for asking the difficult questions and saying, 'Hey, there is no one missing?' We're not saying you should bring them, but we think there's some missing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419181952	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419181953	Well, I think that if we had wanted this proposal to be anything other than a blow to the air and a mark of some fundamental positions, we would probably have got to grips with some of the rest of us before we started dealing with the issue in the Chamber. I mean, I haven't been contacted by the Alternative once with a question of how Social Democracy views this. Enhedslisten sent me an e-mail with questions shortly before we went to the hall. I mean, it's not a way to make the dialogue work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419182025	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419182027	We must then take that on board completely, in the alternative at least. I recognise that I have not sent a single e-mail or conducted a single dialogue on this with the rapporteur. But if we are now to look at how we are going to proceed from here and actually assume that the proposal has been put forward on the basis of a sincere interest in finding a broad assembly of people to bring about peace, then I think we should be able to agree that perhaps we should go beyond the fact that, on the one hand, the alternative has not been able to offer a great deal of negotiation and laboratory work. How can we move on? If there are elements in this that can be used for something, can we come across the fact that we have not approached this House before?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419182101	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419182103	I have no objection to the alternative rapporteur smiling when I say that, if this had been wanted, the process would have been dealt with differently. I guess you'd have thought something like: okay, if we want to do this right and not just be a mark and a blow in the air, then we'll have to talk to some of the parties that can give us a majority. I just haven't seen that. I'm not gonna say it like that. I'm not gonna say it like that. I'm not gonna say it like that. I'm not gonna say it like that. I'm not gonna say it like that. I am simply trying to answer the question of what has gone wrong here procedurally.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419182141	The next brief remark is from Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419182146	Well, that's not how it's supposed to be called. I mean, something needs to be done about that, that's clear. I see it as a desire of the Social Democrat rapporteur to have a debate. Then we can easily withdraw this proposal and put forward another, if there are some things we can agree on there. So I don't want it to depend on that. But there's something in the logic I don't quite understand. Because in my world there is a very big difference between saying that there are some important groups that you do not want to have in some peace negotiations and, so to speak, you want to bring everyone along. Well, these are very different things. If you want everyone to come along, you give room to everyone and let the discussion give advice. If you say that there are some people you want to exclude, you have already said in advance that it is a limited result that comes out of it. So that's why there's a big difference, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419182241	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419182243	Well, that makes sense. I just didn't say anything about somebody having to be kept out or somebody having to be dragged in. I have said that the fact that the negotiating delegation in its composition looks as it does is not the same as the fact that it is unproblematic. What I'm just trying to do is ask, is it such a good idea for us to interfere, or is it not? And there is the view of the Social Democrats that it is not a good idea for us to interfere.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419182318	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419182319	Well, just now, we decided to interfere with bombers and forces. That's where we could get involved. And we've been hearing all day about that thorough investigation of who can be supported and who cannot be supported. So it is not a fear of interfering that actually affects the parties. But when it comes to peace negotiations, we must not interfere. It is only when it comes to acts of war that we must interfere. I think that is a strange backward attitude, and I would just like to say that, in this case, it is in this case the Social Democrats who are foot-timing and not proactive, and those of us who have a proposal that the Social Democrats do not want to take part in.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419182401	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419182403	It is perhaps a rigid piece to say that when you do not want to interfere in the composition of the delegation, you do not care about the peace negotiations. I have certainly not said that. I'm just saying that I don't think we should interfere in the composition of the delegation. It is not, of course, the same as not taking any interest in the peace negotiations at all. It must also be said, with all due respect, that there is a fundamental difference between deciding to fight a military enemy, namely the Islamic State, and then talking about what a negotiating delegation should look like.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419182435	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419182450	The Danish People's Party cannot support the resolution. And instead of repeating all the arguments used by the Foreign Minister and the former rapporteur, which we support, I would just like to reiterate that we believe that it must be the Syrian opposition's own decision which should be included in the negotiations. That is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419182519	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419182525	I stumbled over the word arguments. I heard a rejection, that is absolutely right, but I did not hear so many arguments. Is it quite impossible for the rapporteur to explain this and give me just one or two arguments? It may be her own, but otherwise she may repeat some of the arguments she may have heard. Could the rapporteur, in addition to that, explain to me how a fifth-year war country has one opposition consisting of between 1,200 and 1,500 different small groups, as I think the Minister said there was?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419182606	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419182607	I said that I did not want to repeat all the arguments I had heard, but of course I can do it anyway if Mr. Christian Juhl wants it. One of them, and that is the most important thing, I think, is that we cannot, on the Danish side, decide who should represent the Syrian opposition. Whether there are 5, 10, 20, 30, 40, 50 or 1,000 groups, it is not up to us in Denmark to decide who should be involved in a peace debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419182643	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419182645	I agree that we cannot decide, but we can recommend it. In other words, we can recommend finding the groups that are adequate. I do not think that has been done in the present constellation. It is better than in the first and second debates, but it is not good enough yet. That is why I would like to ask: when we are so active in being involved when bombs are to be dropped, is it not okay that we are also active in trying to make our contribution and our recommendations? After all, they're just recommendations, they're not hardcore bombs. Is it not okay to try to make some good ideas and some contributions where we can, including when it comes to peace negotiations? Or should we just sit there and look around and let others do it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419182724	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419182726	When we take part in a military operation, we do so to defend Denmark. It's self-defense because there's a threat to us. We give ourselves the right to do so because we want to eliminate that threat. But that does not mean that we have the right to interfere in all political issues and to put self-determination out of control all over the world, because we think we are wiser than everyone else. Now I know that Enhedslisten thinks they are smarter than everyone else and that the world would be completely peaceful if we had a world government made up of the Enhedslisten. I fear a little that day, I must admit. But it should not make the rest of us feel the same way about being able to overrule everyone everywhere and say: we have to decide; we in the Folketing know so much better who has to enter into the peace negotiations in order to achieve a positive outcome in Syria.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419182816	The next brief remark is Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419182821	Thank you very much. The situation is, it can be said, that PYD, the Kurdish-Syrian party, has been kept out of these peace negotiations, among other things. because President Erdogan in Turkey cares very little about them. At the same time, we know that it is the very same people in PYD who have helped to make a very, very large contribution to the fight against the Islamic State. So I would just like to know whether the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party does not think it is a little too bad that Turkey is keeping out a group that is working for democracy and has actually made a very, very big contribution to the fight against the Islamic State. Isn't it a pity they're being kept out of these negotiations by Erdogan?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419182908	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419182909	It is absolutely a pity, and it is really, really a pity, and I think everyone should be allowed to play with it. I just don't have to decide. It is not the Danish Parliament that can decide that. It would be nice if all groups were always kind to each other and involved everyone. This is not the case in a school class, and certainly not in international relations. And neither Turkey nor the Danish Parliament can decide how negotiating delegations are to be made up.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419182938	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419182939	Could it not then be reasonable enough for Denmark, for example, to be able to do so? President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: I know that in a number of other foreign policy issues the Danish People's Party considers it reasonable that Denmark should say something to Erdogan. So could this not also be a case in which it was said that it is not okay for Turkey to block this and call for all groups to be included? It's not like it's forcing anyone to do anything. It is to play a role in democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419183014	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419183016	I certainly think it is a good idea to include everyone, certainly. But it's just not us who can do it. It is like the relativisation of our own power and influence that we have to face. It's fine to recommend that they include everyone. That's really, really good. We just shouldn't think that we can push it through.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419183040	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419183044	My question is actually simply whether, now that we have chosen to enter the conflict, we could make a political statement, if only a recommendation on the part of Denmark to take all parties with us? I understand that we cannot decide what we are really going to do in the conflict when we send out individual units; it is part of a larger whole. So I am actually just thinking: could we also choose to make demands on what is going to happen after, that is, the peace negotiations? It sounds a little like peace talks are something that we do not really have control over, something that we cannot really demand anything from. I think it is the same as a military operation, but there we have to make some demands, and if we cannot make demands, we must at least make some political recommendations. Could you not imagine making a political recommendation? So, I can hardly understand why this recommendation will not be made, and that is why we have tabled the motion for a resolution. Of course, we want the broadest possible mandate for the peace negotiations. If it were so softly worded, could it be something we could make a political comment on?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419183146	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419183147	Well, we always want peace and cooperation all over the world. Well, we do, and that is what we want in Syria too. However, I do not think we can say that we have a right to decide how the peace process is to take place, because it is the parties themselves that must do so. It is, after all, like what characterises a peace debate after a conflict, that the parties themselves must come to terms with each other. And if they don't, there won't be a peace out of it. So it must be up to those parties. We can say that we have some dreams about how this should be done, and we should not hide the fact that we want everyone to be involved and that everyone can be involved etc. However, I do not believe that it is any use that we are making very firm provisions on how this should be done and who should be involved. We are not a great power; we do not have those opportunities. And, as I said, it must come from below in a peace debate if it is to function in the longer term.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419183253	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419183254	If we can already see that there will most likely be a shortage here, that is, that there is a group that is not there, and that it might create a conflict afterwards... isn't it a pity to send our soldiers off on a mission that should be meaningful, where you bet life and, at worst, it can end with death? Should we not take this into account that, of course, we want to create the best possible basis for peace afterwards, so to say that there is a very problematic element here, because everyone is not in the peace negotiations? Shouldn't we say, "How can we solve this?"
ParlaMint-DK_20160419183329	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419183330	I think some things are getting mixed up here. Well, we're sending soldiers out to eliminate a threat to Denmark. That's what we're sending soldiers out for. Then we hope that a peace can then be found in the area that would be really, really nice. But it gives us no obligation to control the peace process; it gives us absolutely no right to be wiser than everyone else. So what is it that makes the alternative think they can solve this conflict, given that so many parties have been involved that have been unable to resolve it for so long?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419183405	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419183409	Thank you. If you read the front page of Berlingske today, you can see that these autonomous areas in the northern part of Syria are planning to open a representation here in Denmark. This has made the Turkish embassy frenzy crazy, because the Turkish embassy will in no way accept these autonomous territories in Syria, where Arabs, Kurds and Christian Turkmen are trying to form a new structure after throwing Assad and ISIL into the gate. So, can it really be that the Turkish Government has to get away with dictating whether or not Denmark can work for these groups? Or could we not, on the part of the Folketing today, send a clear signal to the Turkish Government that we actually think they should be involved? That would make the Turkish Government crazy, yes. But isn't that something we should actually do? Or should we just leave it to Saudi Arabia and Turkey to decide who will be part of the peace negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419183514	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419183515	But Enhedslisten stands and claims that Denmark dictates who is involved in the peace negotiations, and Denmark does not, and I do not believe that Denmark has any right to do so either. Then you can think about Turkey and national minorities in Turkey what you want, but I do not think that an irritation or an anger at Turkey gives us any right to be wise usury in terms of how to resolve this. But I know that Enhedslisten believes they can solve all the world's conflicts. I just disagree. I don't think we can put other people's decision-making power out of play and overrule them. It must be the Syrian opposition's own decision by whom they will be represented.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419183606	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419183608	The Danish Government has a position on whether Iran should be part of the peace negotiations. The Danish Government has a position on whether Assad should be part of the peace negotiations. Of course Denmark can conduct a foreign policy, and frankly I must say that I think it is a very, very poor argument on the part of the Danish People's Party that the only thing one has against this proposal from Enhedslisten is that Denmark cannot make a difference in foreign policy. No, it is clear that we cannot change everything tomorrow, but we can then work for something; we can then have an opinion on who should be involved. Why can Denmark not have a position that secular groups can join when we can have an opinion on whether Iran can be involved in the peace negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419183644	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419183646	I do not believe that Denmark has the right to decide who should be involved. I believe that Denmark can express the hope that everyone will participate, that everyone will be included and that a lasting solution will be found. That's what I think we can do. And I don't think I want this greatness crazy thing that Enhedslisten has, where you think you can control the whole world from your chair in the Parliament there we can sort out the peace in Syria because you can see that there are some problems around and that if you do that and that, you'll get it fixed. It is that easy not to fix foreign policy, and we do not have the right to accept it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419183727	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peter Juel Jensen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419183742	Thank you, President. The Left shares the ambition of the proposers for a political solution, for that is the only thing in the long run that can help ensure lasting peace. For more than five years now, Syria has been in conflict and has had disastrous consequences for millions of people. That is why the Left also very much welcomes the fact that the UN is leading the peace talks with the Assad regime and the opposition. In the Left, we support the fact that the Syrian opposition is as broad and representative as possible, but without interfering with who should be involved and who should not be involved. This is a very complex conflict, and this is probably due to the fact that so many external actors are involved. It is not an easy task that the United Nations has undertaken. In the motion for a resolution tabled by the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, the two parties propose that the Democratic Union Party, also known as the PYD, should be involved in the peace negotiations on Syria. One may have an opinion on this in Denmark, but in the Left we are quite confident that the Syrian opposition has this overview. There are two sides to the negotiations when we talk about the Syrian peace process: the Assad regime and the Syrian opposition. First of all, it is the Syrian opposition that must decide who they think should represent them in the negotiating delegation. That is why the Left cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419183915	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419183921	I'd like to hear Mr. Knox. Peter Juel Jensen, in which the difference exists when he says that the Syrian opposition must decide. Just now, we had a very, very long and intensive debate on what the Syrian opposition was and it turns out that there are, I believe, seven or eight groups that have been mentioned that can be approved to be our partners in the part of the activities that is about military action. On the other hand, it is said here that we should not touch this, even though we know that the Syrian opposition consists of very, very many different groups, including groups that we would not touch with a fang and which are around ISIL minus 5-10 per cent. Would it not be a good idea for Denmark, as a very active part of the war, also to try to think about the political or peace part of the solution instead of just saying that we cannot interfere with that or say our opinion about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419184023	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419184024	Thank you. I think the Minister has explained this. A meeting has been held in Riyadh, where some of the groups representing the opposition have been brought together and something has been agreed. Now you sit with the UN and the Assad regime and try to get a political agreement out of it. I think it is as far as we can go from the Danish side. I think that this is what I thought I heard Enhedslisten use the argument in the previous debate that we had had primarily to be resolved by the forces themselves in Syria, and if that is the negotiating delegation that has been agreed and that has been sent to the negotiating table, then I suppose that is what we should be supporting.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419184104	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419184108	I never believed that the parties in Syria themselves will solve this conflict. It is a conflict at national level, a civil war, it is a regional war, and it is a war with great power interests. It's a very, very complicated conflict. I believe that everyone must do their utmost, both politically and in all possible other ways, to give good advice and help promote a process where there can be a really sustainable and sustainable peace agreement instead of sitting back and saying that when it comes to peace, we are not in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419184144	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419184145	That's a legitimate point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419184150	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419184207	It might be that the attentive viewer would sense that we are running a little in circles because we have been discussing the same issues for a very long time now. In any case, I can confine myself to saying that we cannot support this motion for a resolution and that, in this way, we agree with the arguments put forward so far both by the Foreign Minister and other rapporteurs that Denmark should of course not now go in and interfere in the composition of those who are going to hold peace negotiations in Syria. This is a matter for the opposition in Syria. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has mentioned how Denmark works in several tracks and is open to those who have the opportunity to participate in it. So we cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419184258	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419184318	As several speakers have said, we have had a long debate on related issues today. That is why I shall be relatively brief. What I have got out of the debate on our motion for a resolution, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, is that, as a starting point, there is no support for it. There are some wordings and there is an approach that has been wrong. That is why I would just like to say that the wish we had with this motion for a resolution to create a Danish influence on the process, also on the mediation of conflict and the creation of peace, that is, the non-military, which has also been proposed with motion for a resolution No. B 108 earlier today we think we should be followed up by something concrete; that there are some political remarks from Denmark about what we expect when we take part in a war. We expect the war to end at some point. We expect all those who need to be heard to be heard to be heard, and if we can then see that there are some places where everyone is not heard, that is our task, among other things. as co-players in this military effort, to say: that is not good enough. We have no naive belief that we can decide that there are actors to be involved, but we have an obligation to ask that everyone we think should be heard be heard. We can then stand back and see that no one listened to it, but we must take that on board. I hope that in the future we can have a fresh debate on how we go in and put pressure on this peace process without thinking that we can decide it, but create sensible pressure so that we have all the holes in the cheese closed and we get everyone involved in the peace process that could be beneficial. We must do so so so that, even before we embark on a peace process, we have destroyed it from the outset, because there are very, very important groups being held out and who, once we hopefully have an agreement, will stand and look disappointed and without being heard and perhaps be the new IS or the new terrorist organisation. So I look forward to taking the debate with all those whom I have not heard before today's debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419184539	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419184546	For five years, the war in Syria has been going on. Sir. During the previous debate, Holger K. Nielsen made an excellent account of how tragically and disastrously it has developed long before there was anything called Daesh at all and quite independently of Daesh. The war in Syria is itself an inferno with its own dynamics. And for five years the UN and the world community have been trying to bring together the parties around a table; they have begged and asked for the various parties to sit down at a table and start real peace negotiations. And anyone who has followed that process over the last five years knows how incredibly difficult it has been for a lot of reasons. One reason is that incredibly many regional great powers are interfering across and up and down all the time in who is to represent who, when and how much. Now, for the first time in five years, the United Nations, in cooperation with good forces, has managed to bring together the parties on a very, very difficult negotiating situation which just balances, but always at the risk of collapse. I do not really know whether to laugh or weep at the idea that there are parties in this Parliament who seriously believe that we should ask our Foreign Minister to now go down to Geneva and go into the room where one sits for the first time in 5 years with a fragile balance established and incredibly difficult negotiations and start waving a paper saying that there are some very special groupings that it is believed should be both among the Kurdish, among the Sunni Muslim and among the Shiauslim parties there are some choices about a balance in this. And it's not perfect, it's not great, just like the war in Syria, it's not, but it's what's been possible for perhaps the world's most talented negotiator Staffan de Mistura to claim. I simply do not think it makes sense that we should debate whether Denmark should go down right now and disrupt the process that I am sure we all pray to will end well. The Radical Left cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419184810	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419184817	I have to say that I am very unfamiliar with the views of the Radical Left. Quite recently, the Radical Left voted that the military sections of these groups should have air support and that they should have military support from Denmark, and now it is felt that the political branches of these groups should not be allowed to join the peace talks, and Denmark should not work for that. Well, what do you radicals expect to happen? Let us say that the Turkish-supported opposition and the Saudi-supported opposition agree with the regime that they are now going to defeat the groups that Denmark has just decided to provide air support. What should we do then? Should those groups in no way accept being part of a future Syria? In other words, if we want a viable future peaceful and stable Syria, we will have to work to ensure that those groups, at least the secular groups, are not allowed to join the peace process. Everything else will then lead to more chaos.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419184922	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419184923	I believe, of course, that the only possible solution in Syria is a Syria where all sectarian tendencies are removed and where all the different ethnic groups are represented and have their rights, and that applies both to Kurds, but that also applies radically to the other ethnic groups. I know that the Enhedslist is particularly concerned that the rights of the Kurds are being respected, and I understand that with the history of the Kurds, but I believe that if it is to lead to peace in Syria, all ethnic groups must be respected. Some difficult choices have been made within all groups, both by the groups themselves and by the United Nations, in relation to sitting at the table, and if I thought in any way that this would be a constructive handshake to the Kurdish cause as such, perhaps I could consider it. However, what we are talking about here is that some incredibly difficult negotiations are going on, and then some Kurdish representatives, some Sunni Muslim representatives and some Shiamuslim representatives, and not all of them, have been found. I believe that the art of the possible is that, and I have respect for and confidence that the UN is doing as well as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419185034	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419185035	After all, it is not the United Nations that has decided which opposition groups should be involved. On the contrary, it was at a meeting held in Riyadh where Saudi Arabia and Turkey decided that the Arabs, the Turkmen, the Christians and the Kurds, among others. Is in the autonomous regions of the northern and eastern part of Syria, should not be included in the peace talks. In other words, it is precisely a sectarian policy in which one insists that only Sunnislamist groups must represent the rebels, and I simply cannot understand that we in Denmark cannot afford to have an attitude and work to ensure that secular groups can become part of the negotiations. And I do not think that it will lead to peace in Syria if they do not.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419185121	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419185122	As the Foreign Minister has explained, there is indeed representation from the Kurdish side in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419185130	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419185134	I fully understand that the rapporteur cannot vote in favour of this resolution, and there can be many good reasons for that. It may be too unmanageable or too naive. I would just like to ask that if the rapporteur really thinks that we, on the Danish side with a piece of paper, can go down and wave it, and then make a difference and disrupt the negotiations, then we must recognise that we have power, even more than I had imagined. If we can actually go down and disrupt that process by adopting something like this in Denmark and agreeing that Denmark will press for all parties to be heard, then we can change the wording of the resolution, and then I think we should do so. If we can have that vote, I have so much confidence in our Foreign Minister that that vote will be used without offending anyone, but just to motivate us to have this problem resolved. For this we have identified in Denmark, and we would like to focus on that. That is all we can ask, and that is where I would like the Danish Parliament to say: of course Denmark must assume that role.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419185233	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419185234	Contrary to what the Alternative and Enhedslisten would like to give the impression, in the last two years Denmark has been working very determined and very hard to influence both the prevention of the conflict in Syria, the mediation of peace and the building of humanitarian and civil efforts, with the aim of helping civilian structures to live inside Syria and to promote all democratic groups, not just the Kurdish groups, which the Alternative and Enhedslisten would like to promote, but all the different groupings. We have actually been the country or at least one of the countries that has given the most support, and we have been following the other tracks, and we are making a huge difference. However, in the best of my beliefs, it is not by going down and starting to advocate against the peace process that is finally taking place down there that Denmark can make its constructive contribution in the civilian track.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419185329	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419185330	I want to solve two main issues. We don't have a special interest in the Kurds, because it could be in relation to any missing element in these peace negotiations that we would like Denmark to invite in and make it clear that you have to bring them, and then it is by no means to slow down some peace negotiations or corrupt them that we say this. We know that Denmark has played a very, very important role and that you do everything you can. That is why I also believe that when we identify a problem, then we should just bid in and openly and courageously say that this is what we believe is right and we dare to go in with military force. That is why I cannot understand at all the argument that we should be careful here and that we should not say what we think is right.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419185406	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419185408	This is because diplomatic negotiations are sometimes very difficult, especially when it comes to having so many different stakeholders brought together. And if you look at the story and that's why I started in the way I did, you can actually see that it's been very, very difficult, not just for Denmark, but also for all the other countries, to make this happen, and that's why I just don't think it's the right timing to start going that way right now. I believe that right now we must do what we can to support the UN in their efforts.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419185434	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten, who has a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419185438	I very much agree with the rapporteur's view that it is so important that many more have now been brought together for the peace negotiations, and the previous government has also worked to ensure that, for example, the peace talks are conducted. Iran should be included in the peace negotiations, precisely because it is so important that as many as possible sit at the table and help negotiate the peace that we all think is so important. And that is just the work we want to continue and help support from the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, simply by proposing that Denmark also actively help to ensure that all key groups are involved. Because it is not the case that all parties are now assembled; we can see that by PYD, for example. are not there, and there are other groups that are not there. I just want to hear from the rapporteur: is it a good and positive thing, in the rapporteur's view, that there are such large and central groups as PYD, which are excluded by the peace process at this time? Is that a good and positive thing?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419185537	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419185538	I am well aware of this kind of negotiating process, so I know that everything that is realistic has been done by the United Nations in order to ensure as strong a representation as possible. You are in that situation, and you may think that is deeply unfair, and so I can see that some parties will not participate if others do, and that others will not participate if the first do, and up and down and back, and it could be a very, very long evening in the Folketing, if we had to go through every grouping in Syria and look at, and why they participate and not participate. I would like to see them all standing in a large hall on the side of all the 1,500 groups in Syria and all of them raising their hands to peace at once. But I just don't think that's how it works. Because it's actually taken two years to get this group together. And yes, it's not perfect and the process is, unfortunately, anything but perfect... all of us could want a whole, completely different process... but to the question whether I believe that this proposal can change anything about it, let alone make a positive difference, I must unfortunately answer no in all respect.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419185642	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419185643	Now I just get a little curious to hear what the rapporteur actually thinks about the issue of this specific, i.e. the inclusion of PYD, which is not just any group, but is actually a very, very large and central group, and which I consider politically at least to be very crucial for achieving a stable and peaceful solution to the situation in Syria in the future. Does the Foreign Minister think that it is problematic that PYD is not included in the negotiations? Yes or no? The speaker becomes aware that she has called Martin Lidegaard Minister for Foreign Affairs Excuse me, I mean the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419185710	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419185716	Thank you. Yeah, I wish it were! I'll give you that. I do not know if I am able to answer that question, because I do not feel that I am close enough to the process. Apparently, there's a reason PYD isn't. PYD has, of course, met great opposition from many Sunni Muslim groups in Syria because they initially cooperated with Assad, and that may be the reason. Conversely, they have made a heroic effort around Kobane. Of course, the Kurdish groups as a whole must be represented, both now in the negotiations, but also in the solution that we hope will come to Syria, but whether individual groups should participate or not, I think it must be up to the United Nations to try to balance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419185805	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419185812	I agree with the substance of this proposal and also with some of the recitals made by Enhedslisten. It is absolutely true that it gives a weakened peace process that PYD is not included. I think that is now evident to everyone who follows a little in what is happening in Syria and how to get a process up and running. It is a very central player in the whole conflict, including in the fight against the Islamic State in the Kurdish region. It is therefore extremely unwise that they should not be involved, as well as it was unwise that Iran should not be present at Geneva II either. I myself pointed out at the time that it was a mistake, and I suppose the Danish Foreign Minister can do so in relation to PYD; that is obvious. But I would also like to say: is this a subject suitable for a resolution? Is it appropriate for us to vote on this in the Parliamentary Chamber? I do not really think it is; I have to say that. After all, the proposal states that the government must ensure that Denmark helps to strengthen the peace negotiations in Syria by working for...·. We know the government can't secure anything here. After all, the government has no influence whatsoever on the composition of these delegations, just as I did when, as the Foreign Minister, I mentioned that Iran was to be included. It wasn't something I could make sure of in any way. Neither can the government. It makes no sense for us to adopt this sort of thing. To work for what does it mean to work for? Does this mean that a press release should be issued stating that this is the way it is supposed to be? Is that an opinion or an opinion to be expressed? Or do you have to take, as sir. Martin Lidegaard says, down to Geneva and then kick the door open. We're not invited anymore and say: Now is PYD going? I don't suppose that's the point of this either, do I? After all, we agree that it is an advantage that the peace negotiations in Geneva have started again, and that is the key point. Then perhaps I think it would have been more appropriate if Enhedslisten had made a consultation or a paragraph 20 question instead of this motion for a resolution. It's kind of silly that we should vote on it. I agree with what it says, but it is just not something to sit and vote on in this Chamber; I do not think so. What we do in the end, I don't know. I think we are voting in favour because we agree with it, but I simply do not think it is very serious. I'll tell you what.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419190052	Thank you, and there are a few brief comments. The first question is Mr. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419190059	It is noted that it is not serious. At any rate, this is serious, and I think it will be serious at the moment that the very same conflict that we are proposing here is that we should ensure that the solution is also the right one. Our resolution states, of course, that the Folketing requires the government to ensure that Denmark helps to strengthen the peace negotiations in Syria by working for the involvement of secular groups, including the Democratic Union Party, PYD, in the negotiations. I mean, it doesn't say that we have to kick in the door or that we demand that we do this for sure. We would just like an expression of opinion, which I think is extremely important, when we dare to say that when we go in militarily, what is our intention, what do we think is the right thing? That is not to say that we expect to get it through, but I think it would be nice to know, even when we go out and tell you why it is that it is voted through in the Folketing, that this is how we think we can go out into the world and say that we need a broad foundation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419190159	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419190201	I agree with that, and I also think it is an expression of opinion. I would have liked the Foreign Minister to have said that he agreed that PYD should have been involved and then that matter was out of the world. However, when you vote on motions for resolutions, it is in order for there to be action afterwards that you do not vote on positions in this way. You can, but then it's different. The motion for a resolution is that something has to be done, and that is what it says here too. I don't know what to do, and I don't think so either. René Gade's comments make more clear to me, I have to say, but I am happy to hear more.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419190232	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419190234	The action I hope for, and which I also believe the Enhedslisten hopes for, is that we have the certainty that when Denmark has the Minister for Foreign Affairs or anyone else who speaks for Denmark out, we would point out that this is Denmark's position. I think that is very much an act, that is, that we know that it is being stated here that we dare to say that we find it problematic that the Turks keep some outside, or if it was any other group. We cannot demand more than just words, but words in this mediation process are also important.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419190304	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419190306	Yeah, but like I said, it can't be anything but that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419190311	The next question is Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419190315	I think that Mr. Holger K. Nielsen needs points. I think it is quite fantastic that we have a former Danish Foreign Minister who is simply in doubt about how to conduct foreign policy, so there is doubt about how to promote a view. This can be done bilaterally, as can be done under the auspices of the United Nations, and this can be done under the auspices of the coalition. Of course, the Danish side can have a foreign policy position, and one can act on it, one can try to bring together like-minded countries. It is completely incomprehensible to me that Mr. Holger K. Nielsen does not, as former Foreign Minister, see that Denmark has a toolbox that you can use, even in this case. But I would like to ask Mr. Holger K. Nielsen: When you read the front page of Berlingske today, you can see that Turkey is infuriatingly angry that Kurdish autonomy in Syria is considering opening a representation in Denmark. Thinks sir. Holger K. Nielsen saw that this proposal, if adopted and the government starts to work for it, would be uncontroversial to the Turkish Government?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419190423	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419190425	No, I certainly don't think so, but that's not what this is about. Is that it, or what? Well, I mean, I totally agree with the content of this. I fully agree with that. I just don't think it's something you normally vote on here in Parliament. I don't think so at least. Of course, one can express one's views in different places, but surely we need to know more clearly what to say and where to say it. As I said, this is not a matter for the European Union, for example. It is not possible to take it up at a Council meeting there, because it is not at all something that is being discussed there in that way, at least, I am not familiar with. I think it is a bit of a blow in the air, but OK, as I said, I fully agree with it, and I also believe that we will vote in favour in the end if it is to be voted on. But somewhere I think it's inappropriate for a debate like this one. I'll tell you what.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419190532	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419190534	Once again, I am deeply puzzled by Mr. Holger K. Nielsen. We have had an international process in which it is Turkey's opposition to the inclusion of PYD that has led the UN to accept that they should not be included. We've had other countries that thought they were going. There has been a political process, and Denmark could have acted in the political process and brought together countries and acted together with those countries that wanted PYD and other secular groups to have been involved in what the proposal also proposes. Of course, Denmark can act in foreign policy. And yes, that would be quite controversial, but that is something that we can decide, so I very much hope that SF will back up and use the foreign policy tool, it is of course also that Denmark can work for some to be included in a peace process.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419190618	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419190620	Possibly, it's just not a peace process that we are directly involved in. However, I would like to say that, at Geneva II, we were directly involved and I said that Iran should be involved. But it was not something that I thus made a condition for Denmark's participation. I don't quite know what Enhedslisten is imagining. Should you set heaven and earth moving or convene a summit in the European Union, or what is it you should do? Somewhere I think it is very, very abstract and very unclear what it is. Or do you have to say what you mean on various occasions? I think that is fine if it is and, as I said, we should also vote for it calmly, calmly. However, as I have said, I regard this as a bit of a symbolism policy, I must say that I do.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419190707	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. We move on in the rapporteur's line, and the next is Mr. Naser Khader as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419190716	In a sense, what is happening in Syria at the moment is that there are two different conflicts, but they are still linked. There is the conflict about fighting Islamic State; the brutal terrorist organisation that we have spent most of the day discussing how to fight. They must be combated. And then there is the second part, which is Syria's future in general, the Assad regime and the future of Assad. I believe that the Islamic State is plague and that Assad is cholera, and as long as they are there, there will be no peace in Syria. However, with regard to Assad, negotiations are taking place in Geneva. They are run by the United Nations envoy, Mistura, and it is he who invites them to take part in those negotiations, and he decides that sovereignly. The Enhedslisten's proposal to include PYD in the negotiations is not original or new. This is something that Russia's President, Putin, has proposed in the past, namely in January, and that was rejected by Mistura. I therefore believe that we should leave it to Mistura to invite those he believes fit best into the Geneva negotiations. For example, he's invited some people I don't like in the past, but I haven't gotten involved in that. I have not tabled a resolution to remove them from the negotiations. This is true, for example. Alloush of the Islamic army. We must leave that to Mistura, because these are really sensitive negotiations, and there is little need for them to be interrupted. So if Enhedslisten believes that PYD should participate in the negotiations, then they must write directly to Mistura and not use a resolution on it. So we cannot support the Enhedslisten motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419190926	Thank you. There is one brief comment for the time being. It's from sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419190933	I am absolutely convinced that Mr. Naser Khader knows very well that major political negotiations are taking place ahead of the invitation that Mr. Mistura's sending out. Turkey has here, as I know very well that Mr. Naser Khader knows, said PYD is not allowed in any way. There is no doubt that the Americans wanted them to join, but they do not want to provoke Turkey. The question now is whether the Folketing should not provoke Turkey, or whether we should actually work to ensure that PYD, but also other secular groups, for example the Christian representatives who exist in the autonomous areas of northern Syria, can be involved. From Enhedslisten's side we say that Denmark can have a position on this. Of course, we can have an opinion on this, just as we have an opinion on whether Assad can be involved and whether Iran can be involved, and these are positions that I know the Conservative People's Party has meant a lot of things about. Why not take an active position and say that Denmark must work to ensure that secular groups, including PYD, can be part of the peace negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419191043	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419191048	So, the Riyadh Group is very mixed with those of the opposition who are currently negotiating indirectly with the Assad regime. There are Christians, alawites and Kurds, and so it is a very, very mixed group. Mistura has chosen not to invite PYD, and in fact I think there is reason for PYD to be involved in those negotiations at some point. I can't refuse that at some point. But we should not go in and overrule Mistura in his negotiating cooperation. That's not our job. Incidentally, I believe that PYD himself excluded himself from the opposition at the beginning of the rebellion. Then they chose not to be part of the general opposition. If PYD had been in the beginning, Assad might not have had the upper hand today. They have chosen to exclude themselves from the opposition, and this has not only provoked Turkey, but also other opposition groups that accuse them of cooperating with the Assad regime.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419191155	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419191157	What has been the discussion between PYD and other parts of the opposition, supported by Turkey, has been the question of whether there should be room for minorities in future Syria. For example, there was a representative of the Assyrian Christians here in the Folketing. He said: I started by joining the Turkish-supported opposition, but I found that they let all sorts of Islamists in. I could not get a guarantee that there was room for Christians in future Syria, so I went over and cooperated with PYD. Well, the reality is, as Mr. Naser Khader quite rightly says that this is a political process in which PYD can come along at some point. How do they get in at some point? They do that because there is a political process in which someone is pushing for them to join in. And the question is whether Denmark should just sit back and not do anything, or whether we should actually participate actively. I'd just like to hear from the Conservatives, not least from Mr. Conservatives. Naser Khader, who is so concerned about finding a democratic solution for Syria in the future, whether secular groups should not be part of that solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419191254	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419191256	Well, many of those in the opposition who are currently negotiating in Geneva are actually secular. I know several of them, and some of the most prominent representatives are actually Christians. So they're also included there. Once again, I would say that there may be sense in involving them at some point, but I will not go in and interfere with the work of Mistura. We have to leave that to him. If he decides tomorrow that they should be involved, then that's it. We have to leave that to him. He is a good negotiator and I do not think we should interfere in his negotiating work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419191335	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. And the next speaker is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419191353	I would like to begin by thanking Mr. Naser Khader to make it clear to the House that what is happening right now is a political process. Right now, PYD and other secular groups, not least the Kurdish autonomous groups in the northern part of Syria, have been excluded from the peace negotiations because Turkey has insisted on this. It may be that they will come along later, and that will require some countries to insist on it. There is no doubt that the Americans actually want them to go, but they accept that it is the Turks' red line. The question then is whether Denmark should adopt a position on this. That is what we are proposing to Denmark. We propose that Denmark take an active position and try positively to influence the fragile peace negotiations in Geneva, in the hope that a solution can be found to the bloody Syrian civil war. And it is deeply, deeply problematic that until now Turkey and Saudi Arabia have managed to keep important secular groups out of the peace negotiations. This is not least due to fear of the situation in some areas of Syria. We see that Arabs, Kurds, Christians and Turkmen are gathering together and have established a self-government area in the north and north-east of Syria. Here you have created an area the size of Denmark, where millions of people live, and where you try to gather people across ethnicity and religious divisions. And you're also trying to get women included. In other words, some things are being done which are completely diametrically opposed to what ISIL is doing and to the repression, the sectarianism that ISIL stands for in Syria and Iraq. A majority in the Folketing has just decided to provide air support inside Syria, among others. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, to the Syrian democratic military forces, and what we are discussing here is, of course, whether Denmark should also work to ensure that their political organisations are allowed to be part of the peace process. If a peaceful and stable future is to be created in Syria, it is, frankly, crucial that the moderate and secular parts of the rebellion be allowed to form part of the negotiations. Not only will it be forces that will speak for the same values of women's liberation and respect for minorities as the majority of this Parliament wants. They will also be representatives of the largest rebel groups. These rebel groups, which are currently being held out of Turkey, represent more men and women under arms in their armed forces than any other rebel groups do in Syria. They control larger areas of Syria than any other group does. It is absolutely absurd to imagine that a stable and lasting peace can be achieved in Syria if the main rebel groups are left out of the peace talks. Then some have come up with the bad excuse for not voting in favour of the proposal, that it is not at all something that the Folketing should be concerned with; that it is not at all something that should be discussed in this Chamber; that it is not at all something that we should be spending our time on. I have to say, frankly, that I am completely incomprehensible that former Foreign Ministers for Denmark can use such bad arguments, but I would like that to be something we did not need to discuss at all. I wish we had a situation in which it was perfectly natural for Denmark and the West, of course, to support the inclusion of secular parts of the rebellion in the peace negotiations. But that is not the case. The reality is that this proposal is deeply, deeply politically controversial. Because if this proposal is adopted, Denmark is going against the Turkish Government, against the government which is now bent its neck to prevent refugees coming to Europe. Denmark, the United States and the European Union have so far bowed to the demands of the Turkish Government to keep moderate rebel groups out of the negotiations, because the Kurds are a greater enemy of the Turkish Government than ISIL and Assad. The Ankara Government is frightened by the fact that there are religious and ethnic groups that can unite and demand equal rights. Why does it scare Ankara? This is because if it were to happen in Turkey too, the same thing would happen in the June elections, and Erdogan would lose his majority. Honestly, if we are to have peace, if we are to have stability in the Middle East, then we will not get it if we support oppressive regimes rather than local, secular and democratic forces. That is why we in the Group of the European People's Party wanted to make this proposal. That is why we are very pleased that the alternative has supported it, and that is why we will of course welcome it very, very much if the SF also votes for it. So what exactly would the government have to do? It seems very, very difficult for a number of Members of this House today to understand how foreign policy is conducted, so I would just like to say in concrete terms: if this proposal is adopted, the government must do what it says, namely work actively to ensure that these secular groups are included. This will, of course, be done by addressing the United Nations negotiator and by the fact that the special envoy we have and working with the rebel groups in Syria, but so far have not wanted to touch the groups that Turkey does not like, with a ferocity, starting to work with them. Among other things, it will: In the context of our cooperation in the coalition, Denmark says to the United States that, of course, these secular groups must be part of the negotiations. It's not that hard. Of course, Denmark, both in coalition and bilaterally, as well as in the United Nations and in all other international assemblies, where it will make sense, can raise this issue. You can gather a circle of like - minded countries and work for it. There is no doubt that if Denmark started to do so, it would provoke Turkey and Saudi Arabia extremely, and Mr. Martin Lidegaard knows that well. Holger K. Nielsen knows well, and our Foreign Minister knows that. That is why some parties do not want to vote for it. There is no doubt that President Erdogan and the king of Saudi Arabia would be enormously offended by this. On the other hand, there are some democratic forces who want to ignore ethnic and religious divisions, who want to gather together in a fight against ISIL and Assad, and who would be really, really happy. There is no doubt that these two despotic Islamists do not think it is good if secular democrats are allowed to be part of the decisions on a future in Syria, but I think we should work for it. And I don't think we'll have a lasting peace if we don't. So, yes, this proposal is deeply controversial. It is not because we think it should be, and it is not because it is weird or weird to discuss it. We have discussed the process in Syria on a regular basis in Foreign Policy Name and in the various committees of the Danish Parliament and in the Danish Parliament. We have had a position on whether Assad should be part of the peace process. We have had a position on whether Iran should be part of the peace process. And, of course, we can also have a position on whether PYD and other secular groups should be part of the peace process. Well, honestly, make some better excuses. What we are discussing today is whether we will do something actively to strengthen the peace process so that peace can be lasting so that it can be sustainable and that some secular groups can be involved. And frankly, we should not be discussing this in the Chamber today. It should be banal, it should be logical. Unfortunately, it is not, but I hope that one day it will become official Danish foreign policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419192217	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Defence Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419192231	The debate is open. I give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419192254	The proposal here is in many ways a reflection of what we have spent much of today on, namely B 108. The proposal here suggests that we should not adopt B 108 and instead spend the money on some civil reconstruction. Now, as you know, the Folketing has adopted B 108, which is why I do not think I am revealing any secret by saying that we cannot support the proposal here. On the other hand, I would like to say that we are doing a number of other things. This is among other things. to try to rebuild not just Kobane, but in general those parts of Syria and Iraq where we have repressed ISIL, and this is done by working with people on the ground, such as those on the ground. Syria Civil Defense and others who will be able to undertake a reconstruction and secure water, power and necessities. We are working with the Iraqi army and the Northern Iraq Peshmega forces to ensure stability and tranquility in the cities that have been liberated from ISIL. That is why the government shares the objectives of the proposers, namely that we should also take responsibility for rebuilding and ensuring stable conditions in the parts that are being liberated from ISIL. But we will not finance it by failing to adopt B 108, which we have just adopted. That is why I support the intention behind it, but I do not support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419192412	Thank you. And there are a couple of questioners. The first is sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419192418	I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs two questions. I should like to ask whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs cannot confirm the reply he has given to the Parliamentary Assembly. 29 compared to B 108, which we discussed earlier. This answer explains exactly the situation when Denmark sent down the Folkekirken's emergency aid to clear mines in Kobane earlier. They went to work and worked for quite some time until suddenly they were stopped because they could not cross the border; they could not get across the Turkish border to clear mines inside the Kobane. This is what the Foreign Minister has told the Danish Parliament. That's why this proposal is relevant. For we unfortunately have a situation where there are liberated areas inside Syria where hundreds of thousands of refugees and hundreds of thousands of civilians want to rebuild their country but cannot be allowed to do so by the Turkish Government. I fully agree that the Minister for Foreign Affairs cannot support the financing of the Enhedslisten, that is clear. But would it be possible to support it if there were another funding?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419192522	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419192524	The government itself has put funding on the table to spend 122.5 million in 2016. kr. on reconstruction and stabilisation efforts in Iraq. It is the case that we are able to deliver reconstruction, but we take a position on the basis of where the need is greatest and where it is possible to get in. I do not wish to pre-select one place in advance and say that this is where we must help if the situation suggests that there is greater need or a better opportunity to give aid elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419192559	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419192600	It is clear that we must help where there is a great need. However, the problem here is not whether we in Denmark have assessed that there is a need or not a need. When Mr. Martin Lidegaard was Minister for Foreign Affairs, we considered on the Danish side that there was a need at Kobane. We actually sent down the People's Church's Emergency Aid to clear mines they just couldn't get to it by the Turkish government. And this underlines that, unfortunately, this is also a political problem. Therefore, I would like to hear from the Foreign Minister what he will do to remove the political problem, so that Danish interventions also in Kobane and other liberated areas that Turkey does not like can be rebuilt.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419192640	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419192642	We support reconstruction in many places in Iraq and Syria. I recognise that there is also a great need around Kobane. That is why the Danish side wanted to carry out mine clearance in Kobane. We are working through the coalition to ensure that it will be possible to carry out reconstruction in all the areas where we have pushed ISIL back, and in those areas there is a need for mine clearance, reconstruction and security building.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419192704	The next question is Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419192710	There is certainly a need for reconstruction and relief in many places in Syria. That is why I also think it is very important for Denmark to do more than what we are doing now. But I am specifically interested in hearing about exactly the area around Kobane and some of the other Kurdish areas in Syria. There is the situation now that hundreds of thousands of refugees have returned to Kobane, but they simply do not have the opportunity to stay there so much longer. Because what I hear people tell from down there is that families live a lot of people clumped together in broken houses. You simply cannot get roofs over your head, there are no schools, there is not the most basic medical care, etc. Nikolaj Villumsen also tells about mine clearance and something like that. Couldn't we go in there and do something more? It would also be a huge thorn in the eye of the Islamic State, you might say, if Kobane were restored. Could Denmark not make a special effort here?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419192814	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419192816	Denmark is making a huge effort. Since the conflict started, we have paid 1.45 billion. kr. in humanitarian aid. We gave last year 537 million. kr. in humanitarian aid to the region. I have just described that we have set aside 122 million. kr. for reconstruction in the area. I have no problem helping in Kobane at all. I'd like it to happen. But I feel a little strange that we in the Folketing should choose to say that it is exactly for one city. Instead of getting an assessment of where the need is greatest, Enhedslisten wants to say that we have to select a city and help it. I will help where there is the greatest need for help and on the basis of the humanitarian principles that Denmark normally adopts its projects.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419192902	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419192904	I very much agree that help needs to be provided in many places. That is absolutely right. But what is just interesting here is that Kobane has received almost no help from the outside world, among other things. because Turkey has blocked it. The situation is still awful, and that is why I would just like to hear the Foreign Minister whether the Foreign Minister does not agree that Kobane is in fact one of the areas which is so much in need of help and that it would be very good if we could help to make an effort on the Danish side. Will the Minister confirm that we can enter into a constructive discussion on how this can be done in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419192938	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419192939	I think we should help those places where help is needed. Kobane is one of them, but it's not the only place. The help we've given works. If you take a city like Tikrit, the UN says that the reconstruction that has taken place after Tikrit was liberated has resulted in 90 per cent. of the population has returned. So this can work. But there are many cities, like Ramadi. And if we have military luck at the city of Hit, there's gonna be a need for that too. So I'm not gonna stand here and commit to where it's gonna be. I just want to say that we're ready with help, including around Kobane.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419193015	The next question is Mr. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419193018	I also fully understand that the Minister for Foreign Affairs cannot agree to this, and it will only be for two brief questions from me to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and not to the other parties, because the debate is, as it were, over with what we wanted to avoid, namely that B 108 was adopted. The reason why we have proposed this motion for a resolution by the Alternative is because we wanted to show that there was a way, that there was an opportunity not to use military as the main means of resolving this conflict. That is why my question will be on the amount that we mention in our motion for a resolution and which we are proposing to take away from military action and where something humanitarian has also been involved. Can the Foreign Minister help me to see that we will be able to offer something similar to build these areas if necessary? For right now I see a scale ratio where one third of the funds spent are spent on humanitarian aid and reconstruction, while the triple is spent on military intervention. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419193119	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419193121	No, it's almost the other way around. If you look at how much is spent, including what we have promised at the Donor Conference in London earlier this year, you can see that it will be the case that of the total amount we will spend, about a third will be spent on the military part, and approx. Two thirds will be spent on the humanitarian and reconstruction aspects.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419193140	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419193142	When does it come from?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419193144	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419193149	This applies from 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419193159	The resolution before us is, on the one hand, very good, and, on the other hand, it is ill-thought out, cynical and ill-advised. This is very good because it is important to focus on the fact that there is a very great need for reconstruction and humanitarian aid in Syria. There is no doubt that military action against ISIL in Syria cannot stand alone. It must, of course, be accompanied by both humanitarian aid and aid for reconstruction. Denmark already supports, among other things: Syria Recovery Trust Fund, which focuses on water, health, electricity, food safety and waste removal. And Danish relief organisations and organisations are already involved in helping in northern, central and southern Syria, and it is both in areas controlled by the government and the opposition and also in areas under siege. In the view of the Social Democrats, the international community must step up its efforts over the coming years. It's not enough to win the war. It is also important to win peace. So in this way, the proposal is sensible enough. But the proposal is ill-thought-out, cynical and ill-advised for a number of other reasons. The proposal explicitly aims at Kobane. There is no doubt that there is a need for help there, but the comments on the proposal also describe that, for example: 2.1 million home lies in ruins in Syria, that 6.6 million people are internally displaced, that 4.8 million people have fled and that 13.5 million people need humanitarian aid. In this situation, then, it is ill thought out to suggest that we here at Christiansborg should select our own favourite areas, in this case Kobane, and steer the aid there regardless of whether it is also there that the need is greatest and the possibility of delivering the aid is present. It is therefore wise to plan the aid in cooperation with local partners who know the various areas and have the necessary and relevant capacity to plan the aid, rather than from the Proviantgården or Rideway wing here at Christiansborg. When the proposal saw in the inferno of needs that are diving down and pointing to Kobane, it becomes cynical when you read the explanatory statement of the proposers, and I quote: the liberation of Kobane was an important victory that seriously challenged ISIL's conquests. ▪ And on it is said: "Rebuilding and reinsuring the area will beat nails in this victory. ▪ So help and effort are no longer justified by a need to relieve human suffering, but are to be used in propaganda for thanks for coffee! Social democracy clearly prefers that we help with international organisations and other countries, so that there is a more comprehensive approach. More than anything else, Syria is characterised by the huge need for international cooperation. Finally, I think that the proposal is ill-funded because the money must be taken away from the military action against ISIL. The fight against ISIL by the international community cannot be won by our being warmly dressed and being good against animals. This requires military action, which the proposers in the second context also recognise after the debate that we have had today, by proposing that weapons and protective equipment be made available to the Kurdish forces, and by the way, commending the bombing that has taken place in the context of exactly the victory in Kobane. Social democracy cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419193554	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first question is Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419193559	Thank you. Those are nice words, sir. Nick Hækkerup can say about our proposal. But that's not what I want to go into. I'm assuming that Mr. Knox... Nick Hækkerup has read the answer from the Foreign Minister to the Danish Parliament about the mine clearance that we have decided on from the Danish side. And that answer clearly shows that this is not just a question of humanitarian aid; it is also a political question. Because when Denmark considered it necessary to send out mine clearance equipment, it could not get in, at least not in a short time, because of Turkey's opposition to it. And that is the general problem. Unfortunately, this is just one example of the fact that reconstruction materials and mine squatters are being held back from Kobane and other liberated areas in the Kurdish areas. And that makes it a political problem. Of course, the Socialists cannot support the funding, but would you be able to support the fact that we Danish side politically tried to do something about this, so that there could also be emergency aid to these areas, reconstruction equipment, etc.?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419193709	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419193711	No, we will not be able to support this simply because we do not think it is you, me or all sorts of other members of parliament who should sit and choose out the favourite areas and say: they are the ones who need help and those and those who do not need help. This must be done as we are doing today: proper and comprehensive planning in cooperation with others and, above all, in cooperation with the local people who know what the situation is, so that we get the help where the need is greatest and where the possibility of delivering the aid is present.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419193743	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419193745	Where the opportunity to provide the help is present • yes. Fortunately, they have now built an airport with American support, so there is an opportunity to fly reconstruction material and minebreakers down there. It is an option that Denmark could choose. It is not an option for the locals, nor is it an option for the People's Church's Emergency Aid to just have when Turkey keeps the border closed. So the question is whether we are going to help politically, for example, the People's Church's Emergency Aid to bring out their minebreakers, which we have once decided must go. I think that is something that the Socialists should support.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419193821	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419193823	But I am just saying that when you point out in the proposal what huge need there is for help, it is not right to say: we choose that it should be precisely these people who need help. I simply do not think this is something that we should do as politicians in the Folketing at Christiansborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419193844	The next question is Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419193848	I'd like to start by solving something. It is quite clear in this proposal that this is about securing aid and reconstruction for Kobane and others It is clear that we on the side of Enhedslisten would very much like to support the construction in many places in Syria. The very specific situation is that aid has not been able to reach Kobane. And I am quite sure that a lot of organisations will think that there is a very great need for humanitarian aid in the Koban area because hundreds of thousands of refugees are returning right now and there are no homes, schools, hospitals, or any of the things that people need. So there's this great humanitarian need. What we are just pointing out by the Enhedslisten is: let us from Denmark help with humanitarian aid and aid for reconstruction to Kobane and to other areas in Syria too. There I just want to hear the rapporteur: does the rapporteur disagree that it is a good idea to support Kobane as well?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419193951	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419193952	The comments on the proposal that I have here focus exclusively on Kobane. In addition to the heading, there is no mention of other places. And my whole point is: is it reasonable to also ensure help for Kobane? Yes, it is. But is it reasonable that we sit here in Christiansborg as members of parliament and decide where it is that aid should be directed, regardless of what needs are, regardless of the possibilities of getting help out, and independently of all the other factors that matter? No, it's not.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419194030	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419194034	Then I would like to read from the remarks where it says: 'The authors of the proposals believe it is important that Denmark supports the reconstruction of the devastated areas of Syria, including Kobane'. That is in the final part of the comments on the proposal, and I would just like to hear the rapporteur: can the rapporteur not agree that it is a very good idea that we in Parliament decide that we want to help send humanitarian aid and aid for reconstruction into one of the most degraded areas in Syria where this is so much needed and where we could help to make a decisive difference for civilians?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419194103	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419194106	That thing with other areas is a fig leaf. Well, you can try to read the remarks. It is a long description of exactly Kobane and the conditions around it and of how we are to ensure that it also becomes a communication victory in relation to exactly the effort that has been made and what can be achieved and what we cannot get forward etc. This isn't about all other areas. This is about Kobane, and that's exactly the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419194128	The next question is Mr. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419194133	I would not otherwise have interfered, but as I am a co-author, I think it is important at least to tell you what was intended. Because now I am told that it is only intended to talk about Kobane. The motion for a resolution has a title called: Proposal for a Parliament resolution that Denmark contribute to reconstruction and humanitarian aid to devastated areas of Syria. Then there is a general justification, and then there is an example, which is Kobane and Kobane alone. One of the things I thought was interesting about this, when I first saw it, was that we suddenly moved away from talking about emergency aid, humanitarian reconstruction and civil infrastructure, and then made it something concrete, that is, an example that was understandable and from which we could then speak. It was just mentioned that it was one of many areas. The whole debate today has been about the fact that it is too unconcrected when we offer solutions other than military intervention. That is why I would just like to ask the rapporteur to accept that the title contains nothing about Kobane, i.e. Kobane is an example.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419194236	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419194238	Then I think it should have been written in the proposal, that is, that this is not about Kobane, instead of using most of the proposal to write about Kobane and the situation in Kobane. Because if the question is whether we think it is a good idea to intervene with humanitarian aid and to take action with reconstruction, then I said precisely in my rapporteur's speech that this is the side of the proposal that is right and good. What is the problem is that who is appointed and that we should now sit here and decide who is to help in particular, who we particularly care about, who we think is particularly worthy of. That's exactly what I'm opposing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419194314	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419194316	At least I will have a break-up for the first time today, because I fully agree with that. This is an example. It specifically states that it is an example. So if we can look forward to seeing that this very thing is very, very important and that we do not want to disassign anyone, either way, then we have come a long way. This has nothing to do with a specific place. This is an example of a place where it is so much needed and where there are some political obstacles to going in and doing what we want to do when it comes to humanitarian aid and aid.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419194351	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419194353	Well, I'd like to have a brotherfriend with all the people who want to meet me. Then there are only two problems: one is the funding that is hopeless. The second is to say that we now need emergency aid for propaganda purposes. The two things I think are self-evident problems which also justify why we cannot vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419194411	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. We move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Marie Krarup, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419194426	In the Danish People's Party we welcome the willingness to rebuild Syria, but we assume that the resolution as such has fallen because it contains funding which should come from the rejection of motion for a resolution No. B 108. And it has been adopted here today, so the money has been spent once, and then the resolution cannot continue in its present form. However, as I said, we welcome the fact that Syria will be rebuilt and we propose alternative funding. We propose that the funds saved in the asylum system be used by ensuring that Syrian refugees are returned and that they are housed in the neighbourhood, so that they can return to Syria whenever possible. Once the cost of asylum has been reduced in Denmark corresponding to the amount here, we would like to enter into a debate on how to spend the money on rebuilding Syria. However, as I said, the money has been spent once for military action in Iraq and Syria, which we absolutely support, and we do not believe that it is responsible to spend the same money several times. However, once we have saved enough to pursue a more responsible immigration and asylum policy and have Syrian refugees repatriated, we can debate a similar proposal again. So we cannot support the proposal as it stands here, but we will be able to take a positive view of a proposal that is being put forward when the cost of asylum for Syrian refugees has been reduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419194648	There are some brief comments. Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419194652	Thank you. It is clear that you cannot finance this proposal with money that has already been spent. It is clear that we must find new funding during the committee procedure. I think it is, of course, a good thing that the Danish People's Party is inviting into the debates that we are going to have in committee. It is clear, however, that we in the Enhedslisten cannot support the use of funding which cannot be obtained in any way, since there will not be a majority in the Folketing for the legislation described here by Mrs Krarup. So it will not be a funding that we can use for anything. But I hope that the Danish People's Party will enter these negotiations with an open mind. This is exactly about reconstruction in liberated areas in Syria, where Assad and ISIL have been thrown into the gate. It is about enabling civilians to have a future in Syria and allowing refugees to return. It is precisely the much-vaunted help in the neighbourhood that we very often talk about. So I hope that during the debates in committee we can find good funding and that the Danish People's Party can end up voting in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419194759	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419194801	As I said, it will certainly be a resolution in a new version, because the prerequisite for saving costs in the area of aliens and asylum is the introduction of rules so that it will be possible to return Syrian refugees, that it will be possible to deal with their cases more quickly and so on, and that, for example, it will be possible to do so. In fact, they can stop at the border. When all these things are in place and we have sufficiently reduced the costs of asylum, we will of course look positively at a new proposal on how to help returnees to the Syrian refugees to rebuild the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419194845	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419194848	I have to say that I am puzzled by this absolute form of funding. Is it really the case that the Danish People's Party refuses to support a proposal to help with the reconstruction inside Syria in the liberated areas until the border has been completely closed to refugees in Denmark? Therefore, if this is really the position of the Danish People's Party, refugees will continue to come because they do not have the opportunity to rebuild the areas for a very, very long time. I am very surprised if it is really the position of the Danish People's Party. And if that is not the case, there is a possibility of negotiation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419194926	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419194928	It is Denmark that decides how many refugees and migrants enter the country, I would say. And if Denmark pursues a policy in which we reduce the number of refugees, we save some expenditure, and if we get better at sending people back, we save some spending. Once that legislation is in place, we can reduce the costs that, unfortunately, we currently have in the area of asylum. In order to reduce the costs, it is necessary to get some legislation in place. That is where I expect Enhedslisten to support us, for example. a permanent border control so that it will be possible to deal with asylum at the border and thus save a large number of costs for unnecessary asylum treatment in Denmark. Once costs in this area have been sufficiently reduced, we can look positively at a new proposal from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419195021	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419195025	First of all, I would like to encourage the Danish People's Party to take the lead in further treatment to try to find some funding for this reconstruction in Kobane. I do not think it makes sense to put it up as a question of the costs of refugees here in Denmark. You have to turn it around and say, "Try to hear this has just a preventative effect. Right now hundreds of thousands of refugees return to Kobane and try to have a life there. But at the moment they are discovering that it is simply not possible because there is nothing. There are no houses, there are no schools, there are no hospitals, there are no jobs. That is why some of them are being pushed further into taking the dangerous journey to Europe. So this is precisely where we have to start and try to give a boost of reconstruction so that people actually have the opportunity to stay there and not go on this dangerous road to Europe. Will the Danish People's Party not be a little involved in the preventive action?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419195123	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419195129	After all, no one is forcing people to go to Denmark. It is a very, very long road, so it is Denmark that decides who enters the country. That is something we can regulate ourselves out of. In addition, Denmark has an economy. We can't just say that okay, now we're just spending so many extra millions and billions of dollars on development aid for Syria. We have a framework that we have decided in advance, and if you want to go beyond them, you have to find another form of funding. And there is the fact that we are proposing that we can save something on asylum costs. This is something that we are very concerned about and which we think is very, very important. We also want to repatriate Syrian refugees. The costs we save by ensuring that Syrian refugees deal with their affairs in the neighbourhood and become the house there can be used to help rebuild Syria instead of simply increasing our foreign aid, which I do not believe our economy can stand.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419195242	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419195245	I don't think we're gonna quite agree on the funding here, I can tell. I just want to hear from the rapporteur whether it can't be the case that when people like Kobane have actually managed to throw Islamic State on the gate, because the people, the women, in Kobane have managed and paid a very, very great price for that, you can say that a lot of people have been killed in this fight to get Islamic State kicked out of Kobane, but we have succeeded in sending a good signal to those people to say that when you defend your own territories against IS, when you succeed in getting a victory and getting thrown into the IS on the gate, we will actually come and help with the reconstruction of that city, so that people have the opportunity to move back and return it, so that it is not just ruins.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419195331	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419195333	There are a lot of people around the world that I sympathize with and that I would like to send some money to. That is not what the debate is about. The discussion is on how to finance rebuilding. This is a sympathetic proposal, but we do not have any funding. The money's been spent. They have been used quite a short time ago, when we were a majority who pressed the green button. Then we'll have to find the money somewhere else, and there's an obvious area. There are costs in the area of asylum, and the area of refugees and asylum is precisely linked to the area to be rebuilt. So it is a question of where funding can and will be found, and there I would very much like to see Enhedslisten support the Danish People's Party in introducing the necessary legislation so that we can reduce the enormous costs we have in the area of asylum. Then perhaps there could be funding for the reconstruction of Syrian territories.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419195433	Thank you to Mrs Krarup. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peter Juel Jensen from the Left, Denmark Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419195446	Thank you for that, President. The war in Syria has destroyed the whole country and the Left agrees with the proposers that humanitarian aid is needed. That is why we are also among the five largest contributors to the victims of the crisis in Syria, measured in terms of our population. But in the Left, we disagree that reconstruction can start now. We must wait for a peace agreement, just as reconstruction must be coordinated and jointly undertaken by the entire international community. It would not be appropriate for us in Denmark to earmark aid for reconstruction in a particular area. It is also important to note that fighting continues to wave back and forth and that physical security is a prerequisite for starting reconstruction work. Denmark already supports humanitarian work through several of the national organisations, but working in a war zone is a major challenge. There must be a high level of security if aid and reconstruction are to be achieved throughout the country. I should like to welcome from the Conservative People's Party, which agrees with the Left, that we cannot support this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419195609	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419195611	Thank you. As the rapporteur has, of course, seen, and as we have also discussed in this Chamber before, the Foreign Minister has made clear to the Danish Parliament that this is not just a humanitarian issue, at least in relation to Kobane, it is also a political issue. We have previously decided on the Danish side that there was a need for mine clearance in Kobane, but the Turkish authorities have prevented that work from being done. So the question I would like to hear from the rapporteur of the Left is whether we really should put up with Danish minebreakers not being able to come forward. It is not because the locals do not want it, because they really, really, really want it, not because the problem is not there, not because we do not want them to come forward ourselves, but simply because the Turkish Government does not allow them to come forward so that the mines can be removed and the city can be rebuilt. Should we put up with it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419195703	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419195706	I must admit that I have dealt with the motion for a resolution tabled by the Enhedslisten and the Alternative for debate in this Chamber. The fact that the rapporteur then comes to the conclusion that the whole thing is now about Turkey is something of a leap from the original resolution. There is no doubt that when we have a completely devastated country where many have fled, both within Syria's borders and beyond Syria's borders, there is a humanitarian task of dimensions and, of course, it must be solved, and the whole international community must unite.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419195745	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419195748	Yes, of course we must help the whole of Syria. The problem is just, as the rapporteur knows, that there are specific areas in Syria where there are particular challenges. Assad besiegs some cities and has sometimes starved cities, and then you don't allow help to come forward. Here we have a situation where there are some liberated areas which have Islamic State on the one hand and which have the Turkish border on the other. And that's where we've wanted to send in mine clearance equipment. It is, of course, part of the reconstruction effort that people can clear the mines from their houses and start rebuilding their houses. Should we really put up with the fact that contributions we send from here from Denmark are not allowed to come down and make a difference in liberated areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419195827	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419195830	I would therefore like to acknowledge that my knowledge of how to deal with the borders in this area is not so great. But then I think that the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten should have had this in mind when the red button was pressed during a previous debate here in the Danish Parliament. Because we're also sending a Hercules plane that can help ensure that help gets out there where it's needed. But Enhedslisten must have been in dialogue with himself and found that they would rather be doing nothing instead of ensuring that help comes out in one way or another.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419195904	Thank you, sir. Peter Juel Jensen. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Leif Mikkelsen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419195914	We need reconstruction in Syria. I guess we can all recall pictures from television, some of us also from the self-view of destruction, so it is very sympathetic that Parliament discusses how to carry out, support and promote reconstruction. I just do not think, as others have said, that it is the Folketing that should arrive at exactly where this should take place. This must be done in a wider context, and we can welcome the fact that the Foreign Minister has mentioned that traces of reconstruction are already being pursued and that, in this way, we are spending much more money on that part of it than we are doing on military action. The fact that the money has been spent today does not need to be repeated. That sort of removes the proposal here. However, the question of whether we could find other ways could indicate an exciting committee work, because the Liberal Alliance is certainly in favour of helping in nearby areas, and this is encouraged by the possibility of reconstruction. It actually promotes the possibility of helping in the outlying areas, so that is what we are looking at. I just don't think it's gonna be on the basis of this proposal that we can't support.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419200034	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Leif Mikkelsen of Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419200042	I just want to say that I think it is a pity that we cannot have a discussion on aid in the neighbourhood on the basis of this proposal. I had hoped we could, because I think it is quite appropriate that we look at how we can rebuild liberated areas from Denmark, of course Kobane, but also other parts of Syria. So I just have to understand exactly what makes the Liberal Alliance not going to enter into a debate in committee to find funding for this effort.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419200112	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419200114	We are happy to enter into a debate in the committee work to look at rebuilding in Syria. We have the idea that it should be done in a slightly larger context and not in connection with a special appointment in the Folketing of where it should be. And we have a problem here with funding. The Danish People's Party has already mentioned a path, and that is certainly something we are willing to consider. But we shall back off the day when we shall say from the platform of the Folketing: we can see exactly where it is going to take place. This must be done in a larger context and in a larger coalition.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419200148	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419200150	I look forward to this dialogue, but I would just like to point out to the rapporteur that we have a specific political problem with Kobane, because once we have decided that we would like to do mine clearance, but simply have not been allowed to do so, just as in other parts of Syria too there are political problems. I don't think we'll convince Assad tomorrow that we need to get reconstruction material into some area where he doesn't want it. But in this area we are talking about that it is a close ally of Denmark, namely the Turkish Government. Turkey is part of NATO, and there is our position: should we not try to persuade them that we can bring out our minebreakers and other reconstruction materials? I would just like to say that I look forward to the negotiations in the Committee on the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419200233	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419200236	I certainly do. However, I would just like to emphasise that the fact that the Folketing believes we can say that it should be Kobane or other areas is a mistake. Then it may depend on the majority here in Things whether we can do something like that. That is why I believe that the Enhedslisten has been on the wrong track almost throughout the day by wanting to go so determinedly for certain solutions. And maybe that's why it's falling apart.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419200259	Thank you, sir. Leif Mikkelsen. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. René Gade from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419200306	It was, of course, our wish in the alternative when we said yes to this good proposal that we should have a real alternative to motion for a resolution No. B 108, which was dealt with earlier today. Now it has been voted through, so I actually see this proposal as the first step towards a new dialogue, but I fully accept that the parties would like to see something else to work on. I have noted that several people think that Kobane has been mentioned too strongly, that it is distorting the whole idea of what we really want with this proposal. I think that's too bad. The point of mentioning Kobane specifically and outlining the problems and challenges that had been encountered is precisely to make it firm and understandable that there are other ways that could strengthen a destabilised region and could strengthen the fight against terrorism by building massively and ensuring that all the circumstances are there in order to build massively. Well, we'll have to get on with it. We need to figure out how to point it even more clearly in a crowd. I am confident that the Foreign Minister and the Folketing in general would like to support what is actually the essence of this proposal. The idea was that it should be financed by the funds spent on the military effort. That is no longer possible. So from the point of view of the alternative, we have listened, and we are pressing for everything we can to show that there is this alternative to military intervention. We hope that in future we will not look so much at what we do not like about the proposal and add to the motives that are actually not present. We would just like, for once, to try to be quite specific about where it is that you could put in. This shows examples of exactly where and what is needed. Here is the example of Kobane, just as we have talked about the Kurds earlier today. The Kurds are some that we believe are being overlooked in the peace process in many respects, and here we believe that Kobane is a very good example of something that could be done even better and more effectively. That is why it is the example that has been mentioned. All other examples could have been just as good, but these are very topical examples. So we take it on to committee work, perhaps in another resolution at a later stage, but hope that people will look at the positive side of it instead of giving it all sorts of different motives than it really was intended.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419200539	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Nick Hækkerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419200544	Thank you. I just have to be absolutely sure of that, and that is also what I hear the rapporteur say... that when there are sometimes Kobane in this motion for a resolution, it is simply an example and that if we manage to find the money, they might as well be sent elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419200609	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419200613	That is quite correct. From the point of view of the alternative, we are looking to show how much the fight against terrorism and the fight to stabilise the areas in Syria are going in and supporting massively. The proposal was actually intended as a substitute for military action, and there we want to show that if you do not have weapons in your hand, there is a greater chance of succeeding in mediation. So that's correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419200636	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419200640	I think that is extremely positive and, at least, essential to our position. There are some other problems, but at least two of the three problems we had are approaching a solution here. I just want to know whether it will also be the case that when you decide to make the effort elsewhere, it will be done by the usual means and through the usual procedures that we use to choose where such aid might be placed, and not by doing so here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419200712	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419200715	I believe that neither in terms of resolving the conflict by military or humanitarian means nor in terms of rebuilding civilian structures can we in the Folketing decide how this is to be done. It is conditional on our international partners, and that is why what we want, as I said earlier today, is to put political pressure, in other words to show what Denmark means and what direction we want to set. There, this would be a really good way to do it instead of betting militarily. But then there is no mood for that in that B 108 was voted through.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419200745	Thank you, sir. René Gade. There are no more brief comments. Mr President, the next rapporteur we welcome is Mr Gundelach. Martin Lidegaard from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419200753	Thank you very much. Nor can we support the proposal. I am actually 100% in favour of the position that Mr. René Gade came here from the platform just now: basically, this is about giving more humanitarian aid to Syria. We are in favour of this in the Radical Left. We have fought for both higher aid and higher humanitarian aid, and we will continue to do so. So, if that is what is basically in this proposal, namely that we are trying to increase humanitarian aid and now I hope that the proposers will listen to what is being said here, there is support here, if that is under those conditions. But then I hope that the author of the Enhedslisten, in giving his rapporteur's speech, will say, as Mr. René Gade has just made it clear that this has nothing to do with Kobane, but is a matter of increasing general humanitarian aid to Syria, because then we are talking about a whole different ball game. Then there is some funding that we need to get in place, etc., but radically we want to help put pressure on increasing humanitarian aid to Syria in general. That is really needed. As I have said, we have already spent some three times more money on it than on the military, but we would like to see even more money spent, so let us finally do so. But then I just think 'cause you can get a slightly different impression when you hear Enhedslisten's question today than what you got through it, sir. René Gade has said, and Mr. Of course René Gade is just as full a representative of the proposers as Enhedslisten is that Enhedslisten's representative should also confirm that this is a general desire for humanitarian aid, which has nothing specifically to do with Kobane. Then I would just like to say for the record that we are also in favour of humanitarian aid to Kobane. It makes really good sense. And if there are any barriers to humanitarian aid, we are also in favour of working to remove them. But the problem that we also have a little bit is that of taking out individual ethnic groups or cities and saying that they are the ones Denmark should specifically fight for and that it is not for everyone. We think that's a little difficult. We would like it to be an overall effort in Syria, and that is why we would like to place great emphasis on it when the proposer speaks in a moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419201010	There's gonna be a chance of that right now, for mr. Nikolaj Villumsen has asked for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419201015	Of course, on the part of the Enhedslisten, it would be good if more humanitarian aid were to come from Denmark to Syria in general. But there is also a very specific problem about Kobane. When Mr. Martin Lidegaard was Minister for Foreign Affairs, he decided to send down Danish minebreakers to clear mines in Kobane, and since then we have been a laughing stock for our own money because the Turkish Government has not allowed these minebreakers in. That is why this is both a humanitarian issue in which we will, of course, support any humanitarian aid that can enter Syria, but it is also a political issue in relation to some specific areas. Sir. Martin Lidegaard says a little polemical that it should not be sectarian and something like that. It is precisely characteristic in the areas which are the Kurdish-controlled areas that we are not pursuing a sectarian policy, but that we include all sections of the population. So what I'd just like to hear from Mr. Knox. Martin Lidegaard, is: Now that we can see that we have been a laughing stock for our own money in relation to mine clearance, could the Radicals not take part in the future in trying to see how we can also get humanitarian aid into these areas, just as we should of course also try to get it in other parts of Syria?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419201132	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419201135	Unfortunately, it is true that there are many places in Syria where, for both security and political reasons, it is very difficult to get the emergency aid out, and Kobane is one of them. So, of course, we want to take part in this and try to see what we can do on the Danish side to get the help out, both to Kobane and all the other places. I just think that what some of the rest of us may get a little dicked about is that sometimes it may seem • but it may be completely mistaken • as if Enhedslisten, when it comes to e.g. arms support is totally against it, except for the Kurds. When you have a major UN debate, you have to support the UN and not go in and destroy the debate there, except if it is about the Kurds. And here you can get a little the same feeling. But I am glad if I have misunderstood, and if it is all the areas and all the ethnic groups that are in Syria that we must help, including Kobane, of course. Then I think we have talked about it, and then it is only a question of finding the additional appropriations and funding for it. And that is a good thing for the proposers if we can get this far.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419201237	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419201242	Well, like the proposal we made earlier on to include PYD and other secular groups, this proposal is also about helping with reconstruction in Kobane and other liberated areas. It's a very concrete place. If the Radicals have proposals for other parts where it would make sense that we considered how we can get the aid out where it cannot come forward today, then I am very open to it. I look forward to discussing this in committee and, of course, also discussing how we can obtain funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419201308	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419201311	Then we look forward to an exciting committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419201314	There is one more brief comment from Mrs Eva Flyvholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419201318	First of all, I would like to clarify to the rapporteur that the Enhedslisten has never proposed sending F-16s to the Kurds. That is what has been decided today, namely to send down F-16 aircraft, which we have not supported in this way; it has been another discussion. However, as far as humanitarian aid is concerned, I would just like to say that the rapporteur himself points out that the Radicals want to support reconstruction, including by Kobane, and that is precisely what the proposals of the Enhedslisten and the Alternative are about. It is about the fact that we want to rebuild and provide humanitarian aid in many areas of Syria, including in Kobane. It is clear to me that it is absolutely crucial that Kobane should also receive help. And, of course, we see that there are political problems in getting the aid in, and that is why we are highlighting it. So I would just like to hear: when the rapporteur says that yes, you want to support humanitarian aid and reconstruction in Syria, and yes, you also want to support aid for Kobane, why is the rapporteur voting against this proposal? And what is the rapporteur going to do to ensure that aid can be given to Kobane?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419201421	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419201424	Perhaps I am wrong, but when I came to say that Enhedslisten has supported arms aid to the Kurds, it is because Enhedslisten supported our very first contribution with transport aircraft. As far as I remember, but I may be wrong, we also supported the idea that weapons should be thrown off aircraft over Kobane at some point. The only thing Enhedslisten has not supported was what really made a difference, namely that the coalition helped the Kurds in Kobane with support from the air. This was opposed by the Enhedslisten, just as for strange reasons we have opposed all other contributions from the coalition since the very first contribution that we made. I would therefore very much like to discuss what we can do to improve the situation on the ground so that we can get more help into Kobane. I understand that there are security issues. I am not quite up to date on exactly what the security problems are, but if we can do something about them, I would very much like to contribute to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419201522	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419201525	Now the rapporteur says that these are strange reasons why the Enhedslisten has voted against the later proposals. Well, in Iraq, it was one of them. because of the violent sectarian violence that we have also seen the Iraqi Government be a representative of and help to support through Shiamuslim militias who commit acts of violence against the civilian population. That is one of the reasons why we have not been able to support this. I am surprised that the rapporteur's party has agreed to this. However, in relation to this humanitarian reconstruction, if the rapporteur agrees that it is essential that we get the emergency aid to Kobane and that we can do reconstruction work there, then I look forward very much to discussing it in the further process here, and then we will have to find a solution to it. And I can assure the rapporteur that our intention is both to help in general terms in Syria and also to ensure that concrete help comes to Kobane.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419201611	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419201614	Well, when I said at the outset that we were against this, it was because I had the impression that what the proposers were up to was that we should sit here and give priority to individual cities and individual groups inside Syria. I understand that is not the case now. We want to make a broad contribution, depending on where we can get to and who needs it most, including, of course, Kobane, provided that we can work to make it possible and then also within another funding. In other words, it is very close to the kind of aid we are already providing, but I would like to see the aid increased, and if it is in the direction that the proposal is now moving, it may well be that we can talk that we can support it too.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419201654	Thank you, sir. Martin Lidegaard. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Holger K. Nielsen from SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419201704	I fully agree with the authors of the motion for a resolution that humanitarian aid must be increased and that it is also an alternative to military action that we should focus more on humanitarian aid. I think that coherence and perspective are quite right in this proposal from the Enhedslisten and the Alternative. The question then is what exactly does this mean, and that is why I thought it was interesting what Mr. René Gade said. After all, he is also one of the proposers, and he attached great importance to the fact that it was not just Kobane, it was also elsewhere in Syria. This is also clear from the proposal with good will, I would say, but if you are not so good-willed, you can also read it in such a way that it is basically only Kobane that needs help. I think that is a problem with this proposal and I simply do not understand that Enhedslisten has put it this way. I'll tell you what. It would have been much better and clearer and would have received much more support, including from us, if it had been said that this is humanitarian aid to Syria, and then we are making a huge effort to do so. But Enhedslisten wouldn't. We had some talk about it. I certainly think Kobane is relevant. It's settled. They've made a huge effort down there. But as an alternative to the war, all Syria needs help here. I must also say that I see it that way, and that is the way it can be read. And when I heard Mr. René Gade's speech, I must confess that this is how I shall interpret it in the future. I assume that we can make that clear when we deal with this in committee. That is why we can support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419201853	There is a brief comment from Mrs Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419201900	I am pleased that the rapporteur says that we can support the proposal and agree with the intention that we would have liked to have had reconstruction and humanitarian aid instead of the war effort that has been decided today. I would also just like to ask the rapporteur in more detail: does the rapporteur not agree that there is also a special need for reconstruction in the area of Kobane and in some other Kurdish areas, precisely because it has been very, very difficult for political reasons to come in with emergency aid, so there is an obvious possibility of really taking action there?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419201940	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419201942	That's where I think it's gonna be a problem. Why is this more relevant in Kobane than in Aleppo? I would like an answer to that. There are plenty of areas in Syria that have been destroyed, for example. Smashed by the Russians, smashed by Assad. The Russians have committed war crimes in the fighting there. If that is the approach to it, then I think it will be a problem; I have to say that. I don't understand why Enhedslisten is taking this out. I believe that Kobane is deeply relevant also because there is a very brave fight going on there and because it was destroyed. But Aleppo is certainly destroyed, and so is Syria elsewhere. That is why I simply do not understand why we do not want to take as a starting point the fact that it is simply Syria that needs humanitarian aid instead of war. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419202042	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419202044	Well, surely we want to rebuild all over Syria, and I believe that there is a great need for reconstruction in Aleppo. Well, that's not the question at all. That is also why we write Kobane and other areas because there should be no doubt that we on the side of Enhedslisten would like to build throughout Syria. But when Kobane is particularly interesting, also to discuss here, it is because Kobane is a liberated city. It should be easy to get in and do reconstruction in Kobane. It should be a safe area. There are plenty of refugees coming back. It should be easy. Well, it's much more difficult in Aleppo, which hasn't been freed yet. Kobane should be an easy place to get in and do reconstruction. The reason why this is not the case is that Turkey is preventing it. I think there is some reason to be extra interested in this, so that we can put in both Kobane effectively, but certainly elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419202136	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419202138	Well, I suppose this isn't about Turkey. It's about Syria, isn't it? Or what? I assume that it is the civilian population in Syria that we are discussing here. To make it some kind of deputy agenda in relation to Turkey seems to me to be something strange; I have to say that. I think that Turkey is being foolish about this, and I have criticized them in the middle of it. They are counterproductive in their double standards and the way they fight the Kurds instead of fighting the Islamic State. I fully agree with that, and I think we should also criticise it more strongly than we have done. But let's just keep things a little apart. This is about Syria. It's about the whole of Syria having a reconstruction, I guess. It is about the fact that we have decided today to go to war and that it is a mistake because the money we spend on the war could be used for reconstruction throughout Syria. We have that starting point. And then I think we should keep Turkey out of that discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419202237	A brief comment from Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419202240	Of course we have to rebuild all over Syria. I also believe that all of us in this Chamber today are aware that there are specific political challenges in different parts of Syria. Of course, it is clear that a city like Aleppo, where there is war, violent, violent, terrible war, right now, is hard to rebuild. There are other cities where the fighting has stopped. It may be Homs, because the regime has won, and there is an opportunity for the United Nations to come forward because the United Nations acts in the areas controlled by the regime. Unfortunately, the UN is not working in the liberated areas around Kobane, nor in other rebel-free areas. There it is, then, that we are trying to address that problem. Could Denmark not contribute here too? We are very open to the fact that we can generally increase humanitarian aid, but of course it is also clear that we need to address the political challenge in Kobane and elsewhere, for example, where rebels have freed the areas, but where aid cannot be brought forward for political reasons.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419202340	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419202342	We believe that humanitarian aid should be introduced into Syria. We fully agree with that. Then I must say that I do not quite understand the Enhedslisten. The only thing we say is that instead of just talking about Kobane and the Kurds, you have to talk about the whole of Syria, because then you could get us all together with no problems. That's just what we're asking for. Why does it have to be so difficult? Why does Enhedslisten keep hanging on to that and that, instead of listening a little bit to what other parties here in the Danish Parliament say? It is precisely that we are actually concerned that there is humanitarian aid coming in and that it can be done in other ways than the one that Enhedslisten is just proposing here. In fact, that is also what the alternative is about, and on that basis we can have a discussion in committee afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419202442	The questioner. Isn't that the other question?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419202446	We would like to have help throughout Syria, but we would also like to have it in those areas where it is not possible right now, for example around Kobane. The problem is that if you just close your eyes to it, there will be no help there. So if there is not a political will to say, for example, that once we have sent minebreakers, they must also be allowed to come forward, then they will never come forward, and then we have some large areas where right now there are 100,000 people who want to rebuild their cities but cannot be allowed to do so. I think that we in the committee can find a friendly solution where, of course, we are working to increase reconstruction aid and humanitarian aid in general, but of course we are also addressing those areas where there is the problem right now that it does not come forward at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419202528	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419202530	As I said, if that is the approach to it, we can probably find out, but I'm still standing away and wondering why it shouldn't be possible to write something that was a little more all-embracing when it comes to solving some Syrian problems, but okay, that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419202553	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419202610	Thank you. The idea behind this proposal is the idea and attitude that Denmark must make an effort in Syria, which makes a difference: Denmark can make a decisive difference in the fight against ISIL if we show that it is worth fighting against ISIL if we make it possible to rebuild, make a humanitarian reconstruction in the liberated areas where Assad and ISIL have been hunted on the run. Unfortunately, it is not possible everywhere in Syria today, where moderate rebels have succeeded in freeing the areas. Unfortunately, we have a situation in which there are large areas controlled by moderate rebel forces that do not receive humanitarian relief which do not receive humanitarian reconstruction material. It is not because there are no countries that would like to help them, for example Denmark, which would like to send mine clearance equipment to Kobane, but cannot be allowed to do so because the Turkish Government is blocking the border. So we have a situation where Denmark can make a difference if we actually bring out the emergency aid in these areas. Yes, it is clear that we, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, on the part of the proposers, would like to rebuild Syria as a whole. As far as the Enhedslisten is concerned, however, I must also say clearly that when we have a situation where the Kurdish town of Kobane, which was liberated more than a year ago, is still in ruins, we also have a problem. If we imagine that right now we were all sitting in Raqqa discussing whether we should oppose the Islamic State, and then we could look forward to the day when we had taken a very, very hard and brutal fight and our houses and our homes had been completely destroyed, that one year after we still hadn't rebuilt our houses, then I think there would be a great deal among us that would say: No, then we wait just to take the fight. That is actually why it is quite appropriate to discuss how we can secure humanitarian reconstruction even in the cities that have stood up to ISIL. It's in Kobane. More than 200,000 of the city's inhabitants have now returned, but they cannot rebuild their houses. They cannot get reconstruction materials across the Turkish border. As has been discussed before in this Chamber, this is something we have actually discussed in the past. We had a question debate called by the Enhedslisten, which led to the previous government sending out mine clearance equipment. The problem is that this mine clearance equipment has not been able to come forward since the end of 2015, because Turkey closed the border. That is simply absurd. We often discuss the problems of Turkey keeping the border open for foreign warriors, keeping the border open for oil exports out of IS-controlled areas, but precisely here Danish mine clearance equipment cannot enter areas freed by moderate rebels. Fortunately, large parts of northern and northeastern Syria are liberated areas where secular rebels have hunted ISIL and Assad on the run. These are areas that house millions of civilians. These are the areas where we have the situation that we would very much like to help refugees from other parts of Syria, we would very much like to make it possible for the civilian population to stay, and we would also like to make it possible for refugees to return and build a future. I believe that Denmark should support humanitarian reconstruction and believe that it is time for action to be taken behind the much talk of aid in the neighbourhood. We of course believe that this should be done in Kobane on the part of the Enhedslisten, but we also believe that this should be done in other parts of Syria. This will not only mean fewer people being forced to flee to Europe. It will also strengthen local secular forces, and it will show the Syrian people that it is worth fighting against ISIL and that when your house is destroyed because you fight against ISIL, it can be rebuilt after liberation. I think it is positive that the Foreign Minister has announced that humanitarian action must be strengthened. I think it is positive that there have been positive indications from a large number of parties in the Folketing today that humanitarian aid should be increased and that we should talk about how we can help better in the neighbourhood. The problem is, after all, that there are large parts of the liberated areas in Syria that are controlled by moderate forces who have not received support from Denmark for the simple reason that it is politically impossible to bring it forward. That is why I think it is time that Denmark also dares to put an end to the anxiety that has sometimes prevailed in this House about the fact that the Turkish Government, which should also be a close ally, should be a partner in the fight against ISIL and should be a partner in the fight against people fleeing Syria, keeping the border closed. I believe that we must be firm that it should be possible for people, even in areas controlled by moderate secular rebels, to build a future in Syria. I think we should help them to create a situation in which their people are not forced to flee. So I have to say that I look forward to the debates in committee. I am pleased that there have been positive feedback in terms of entering the negotiations with an open mind from both the SF, the Liberal Alliance and the Radicals, and I hope that other parties will join the process positively. So I look forward to the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419203213	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Nick Hækkerup, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419203218	I would just like to assure you that, since we are dealing with this House, the rapporteur agrees with the proposers of the Alternative that when Kobane is mentioned in this motion for a resolution, it is merely an example.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419203239	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419203242	It is clear that Kobane is the concrete example that we could come up with, where there is a situation where there is a liberated area freed by moderate opposition forces who need reconstruction. If there are other areas of Syria where it will make sense to do the same and where it will be possible, we can do so too. We discussed this, for example. Already Aleppo has fought violently in Aleppo, and if Aleppo is freed, it is clear that it is a place to take action. So yes, Kobane is right now a place where we can make a real difference, and that is what we want to do. If there are other places where it is possible to do so, we would be very, very happy to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419203318	Sir. Nick Hækkerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419203322	It is also in this context that we agree with its co-sponsors that the money should not be placed in the Parliamentary Chamber, elected, allocated to a particular area. This should be done through the procedures and the usual ways in which such a selection would take place, as the co-sponsors of the Alternative said: yes, it is true that it is not we here in the Parliamentary Chamber who should point to the specific areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419203348	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419203351	Well, I think it's important that we relate to the real world, and the real world is that in relation to a place like Kobane, it doesn't matter whether the People's Church's Emergency Aid wants to come in, or whether Danish Refugee Aid or all kinds of others want to come in, because they can't get in. That is why it is not just a humanitarian issue; it is also a political issue. So it is not a question of us not interfering, it is a question of us having to interfere if it is to be possible for emergency agencies to act. That is why, for example, we are faced with the specific problem that the Foreign Minister has described to us, so that we in the Danish Parliament can decide that we want to do mine clearance in Kobane, but that it has not been possible since the end of 2015 for the People's Church's Emergency Aid to enter. So it is clear that we have to deal with that and, of course, we also have to deal with it politically.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419203435	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Defence Committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419203451	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kasper Roug, Social Democrats. Here you go, sir. Roug.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419203512	Thank you for that, President. In order to expand its mining operations, Greenland repealed its zero tolerance policy in 2013 against investigating and extracting nuclear materials. The extraction and export of nuclear materials affects the entire foreign, defence and security policy of the Kingdom of Denmark, and therefore a need has arisen to establish a system of both international obligations and guidelines for control and transparency with all phases of both the extraction and export of nuclear materials from Greenland. The bill we are discussing here must form the basis for such a security control system, and it is based on a thorough Danish-Greenlandic preparatory work. Prior to the bill, a working group has been set up, consisting of Danish and Greenlandic authorities, to draw up a report on uranium extraction and export. Against this background, you have identified the need for legislation in this area. Subsequently, a joint declaration has been concluded between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Department of Industry, Labour and Trade to establish a Greenlandic and Danish security control structure in mutual respect and equal value. It is all to ensure that the extraction and export of nuclear material from Greenland will take place in accordance with the highest international standards. The bill shall ensure that the powers necessary to comply with the international safeguards obligations of the Kingdom of Denmark and ensure that nuclear material can only be used peacefully and not in illegitimate weapons programmes or in connection with terrorism. Security checks shall include, inter alia: comply with the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, the IAEA Safeguards Agreement and the related Additional Protocol. The security control system proposed by the legislative proposal will correspond to the relevant parts of the European Atomic Energy Community Regulation on the application of safeguards. This applies today to Denmark, but not to Greenland. The proposed security control system will include: include a notification and reporting obligation related to possessing and exploiting nuclear materials. This includes, among other things: information sharing with the IAEA on nuclear material and installations, reporting and inspection access requirements and establishing the operation of an electronic accounting system for accounting and control of all nuclear material. A duty of supervision will also be introduced, and then the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will have to conclude bilateral agreements with the States to receive the nuclear material. The agreements will make a number of demands, including: legal, binding obligations to ensure that the material is used only peacefully. It will be the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which will be the overall responsible authority for security control, and the Danish Emergency Agency, together with the Greenland authorities, will carry out the specific security control tasks. It is, for example, a question of carrying out accounting and control systems for installations and nuclear material in Greenland and of monitoring and checking compliance with the safeguards obligations, among others. through inspections by IAEA inspectors. With this bill and with the bill on the control of exports of dual-use products, which is presented simultaneously by the Minister for Industry and Growth, we ensure that future extraction and export of nuclear material from Greenland will take place under the strictest security conditions in the world. We also ensure that the material is used only for peaceful use. This is good for Greenlandic society, and a good agreement will be good for security and peaceful use. Social democracy supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419203909	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419203916	Thank you very much. Now the Socialists have been saying that this is a question for Greenland. But as we have two legislative proposals that we are discussing here in the Danish Parliament today, it will also be a question for Denmark. I would like to hear what the Socialists think about the fact that the Commonwealth becomes uranium-exporting. If you look at it internationally, it will be Denmark that in some cases represents the Kingdom community and thus also stands as a kingdom community that is uranium-exporting.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419203948	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419203949	It is the case that Greenland has, after all, taken responsibility for deciding whether or not to extract uranium. What we are discussing here today is what will happen if the Greenlanders choose to extract uranium. So the Social Democrats in Denmark do not decide in this way whether the Greenlanders should extract uranium or not. The Greenlanders have to do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419204015	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419204017	Then I do not think that the purpose of these two legislative proposals has been fully understood, both what we are dealing with now and what will follow. It says precisely that it is Denmark that is going in and actually giving permission for what we can export. Basically one could put it a little on the tip and say that it is really Denmark that gets control of all mining in Greenland, and in this way there is also a roll-back of the competence that has been given to Greenland in connection with the self-government law.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419204044	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419204046	I think that the Greenlandic question puts things at the forefront to such an extent. It is clear that if we fail to meet the safety obligations laid down here, nuclear material cannot be treated. However, this has been done in close cooperation between the Greenland authorities and the Danish authorities. If this is something that we really think needs to be changed in one way or another, then it must come to a debate later at second reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419204113	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419204117	Thank you. There is a reason why we have to deal with this in the Folketing and not just let the Greenlanders deal with it. If it was Greenlandic, it was Greenland itself who decided, and then we didn't have to decide on this at all. After all, the reason why we have to take a position on this is precisely that it is high-strong for foreign policy to throw uranium on a world market that is hollow. There are several thousand examples of uranium being smoked on the black market and bypassing controls. That is why it is very problematic, not least in such a troubled world as we now have, where a nuclear bomb can mean a total shift in, for example. Middle East.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419204158	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419204200	Now I would say that the questioner from the Enhedslisten takes a little out of the context. That is not what we are debating today. It is true that the reason for the proposal here is that Greenland's autonomy has chosen to abolish the previous zero tolerance policy on nuclear material. That is what we are discussing here. In other words, we are now deciding what to do if the Greenlanders choose to break this nuclear material. So what are we gonna do? What will the procedure be in that case?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419204233	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419204235	The key point is precisely what we should do to the rapporteur if the Greenlanders choose to excavate uranium, which can be sold on the black market and used for nuclear bombs. That is why, as foreign policyers, we have to take a position on this issue because we are jointly responsible if the uranium goes onto the black market to someone we do not like. That is why we must take a position on this. It has nothing to do with how to dig it up or what machines to use. They'll find out for themselves. This is hardcore foreign policy and security policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419204313	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419204315	I recommend the author of the Enhedslisten to ask the same question when we deal with L 158, because that is exactly where we will be debating it. The bill covers approx. Thirty-seven pages and some 200 pages of annexes, and I think that goes down quite meticulously in the security issues that are of course also involved in the risk of nuclear material being exported. And it also goes into a lot of detail about what will happen when it comes out of the ground and what will happen from there.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419204348	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419204356	Thank you. L 155 will create the framework for mining with radioactive material in Greenland in safe conditions. The draft law creates the legal basis for the Emergency Management Authority to carry out the control of the mining industry needed to ensure that radioactive material from the Greenlandic underground is used only for peaceful purposes and therefore not for the arms industry. Furthermore, it is ensured that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will conclude bilateral agreements with the beneficiary countries to which exports are requested. These agreements are intended to ensure the peaceful use of radioactive material. On the whole, the Danish People's Party can agree to the bill. However, we are somewhat puzzled by Article 10 (1). 2 which allows the Minister for Foreign Affairs to derogate from the rules on bilateral agreements. We find it difficult to see in what situations such a stable door sale of radioactive material should take place, so we will pursue this particular part, which we wish to see thoroughly clarified and delineated, in the work of the committee. I should also like to say that DF's positive attitude to the proposal is not the same as final support for the operation of mines with radioactive material in Greenland. That decision can only be taken when the consequences of this have been fully elucidated.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419204530	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419204534	Thank you. Now it is also the case that Greenland has the power to grant an exploitation permit when we get there. But DF has also expressed concern about the vulnerable nature, and there is, of course, a special environment, one might say, in Greenland, which one also has to take a position on. In the case of the Kvanefjelde, we are certainly talking about an open mine in the backyard, as I call it, i.e. a mine very close to a town with approx. 1,300 inhabitants. We are also talking about a place where sheep are kept and about the fact that much of this waste has to go into a lake very close to where the population is. So I would like to hear the rapporteur express a little more what concerns people have about Greenland's nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419204625	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419204628	There is no doubt that radioactive material is a particularly sensitive issue and the waste from it can be associated with very large environmental, but also health, risks. And it's clear that if you're going to go into a mine adventure of this caliber, we need to be very thorough in the assessments that are of both the environmental and the health consequences for the areas where mining is to take place. It's quite natural. It should not be at the expense of nature and people that we have to run mining.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419204708	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419204712	Thank you very much. From the point of view of the IA, we say 'no' to uranium, and fortunately we also see that even those who say 'yes' to uranium are beginning to be a little more critical of it. It is precisely said that this cannot be done unless it is environmentally sound and unless it is possible to ensure the health of the population. We also know that this EIA report, which is intended to describe the environmental consequences, has been submitted almost five months ago to Greenland's self-government. We are therefore also in a situation where we are a little surprised that this public hearing is not going to start.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419204750	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419204753	I can well understand the rapporteur's amazement about this. However, as I have said, the proposal here is not a proposal as to whether or not one is for or against the extraction of uranium in Greenland, but rather a proposal which ensures that it should get to where there are some who grant permission for uranium extraction, it must at least be done under sound conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419204825	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419204830	As I remember, the Danish People's Party has supported the policy of zero tolerance as it was good tone in Greenland. Was it not on the basis of political and strategic considerations that it was supported, or was it just because it was smart to support? What was the reason for this, and why do you change now?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419204851	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419204854	As I said, I do not see this proposal as a breach of the zero tolerance policy. It is all about the fact that if there is a majority who decides to extract uranium, then it cannot conflict with the interests of the Danish People's Party that it should then at least take place under safe conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419204915	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419204919	That's almost logic. The rapporteur talks about what will be done if that happens. But aren't we also put in these chairs to decide whether it's good or bad? So I see these two proposals as directly coherent, and I wonder why we need two rounds of these proposals, because they are two sides of the same coin, and they cannot work separately.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419204939	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419204942	I can see that, and I myself have wondered why it should be divided into two. Nevertheless, without having said that the Danish People's Party currently believes that uranium should be extracted in Greenland, I believe that if others outside the Danish People's Party or with the Danish People's Party decide that uranium should be extracted in Greenland, it must be in everyone's interest to ensure that this is done at least in safe conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419205019	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peter Juel Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419205032	Thank you. When the rapporteur of the Left in this area, Mr. Marcus Knuth, did not have the opportunity to be present in the Chamber, I hereby read his speech: With this bill Denmark wants nuclear material from Greenland to be exploited for peaceful purposes and that Denmark meets its international security obligations. When Greenland decided in 2013 to repeal its zero tolerance policy, this meant that the ban on the extraction and export of uranium and other radioactive substances was lifted. In other words, Greenland said good that uranium could be extracted in Greenland in the future. In order to examine the consequences of the lifting, a uranium working group was set up which stated in their report in October 2013 that a system was needed to implement the international obligations to carry out safeguards on nuclear material. Therefore, the bill is a follow-up to the uranium working group's report and the result of an agreement between Denmark and Greenland's Self-Government. As responsible for Greenland's foreign, defence and security policy, it is Denmark's job to ensure that the radioactive substance does not end up in dictators' weapons programmes or in the hands of terrorists. Denmark's international obligations derive primarily from the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, the IAEA Safeguards Agreement and the related Additional Protocol. According to the conventions, Denmark is responsible for ensuring that uranium from the territories of the Kingdom community does not spread irregularly. The draft law will introduce a security control system in which notification and reporting obligations are linked to possessing and exploiting nuclear material. In addition, uranium exports will be made on the basis of a bilateral agreement concluded between the recipient State and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The agreement will involve a legally binding obligation on the recipient State to use only the nuclear material for peaceful purposes. The Left believes that it is necessary to get the agreement between Greenland and Denmark in place, and that is why the Left is voting in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419205247	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419205252	Thank you very much. We want the IA to take a position on uranium policy in Greenland in the longer term. Mr Inatsisartut has recently opened his session and dealt with this proposal. But we also know that there are three proposals that are about referendums. Three different parties or non-attached Members have put forward a number of proposals, and this could potentially have an impact on the future course taken in relation to uranium. How are we supposed to deal with this in the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419205329	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419205333	Do we not agree that the reason why we are dealing with this and the subsequent legislative proposal is that there has been a desire from Greenland to have this opportunity? Now the questioner would like me to interfere in Greenlandic domestic policy. I always like it very much when the Greenlandic elected members of parliament do not interfere in Danish domestic politics, so shouldn't we keep it there?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419205357	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419205401	It is certainly not intended to encourage you to interfere in internal Greenlandic relations, but I think we need to consider whether the basis is strong enough for these laws to be finalised at all. One could imagine that there was a referendum, and then the whole basis of this piece of legislation was not in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419205420	I have to point out that we do not use direct indictments in the Assembly. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419205426	I have to say to the President that it is because I am so trusting. I would like to maintain my point of view from before. In other words, if you find out in the self-government that a referendum could be a good idea, that is what you will find out there. I understand this bill and the subsequent proposal in such a way that the national government has asked for the opportunity to have it. And I think it's a good thing if you can agree on these things within the Kingdom community. After all, I have just read the rapporteur's speech on behalf of the Left, and in the Left we think it is a good idea to accommodate the national regime here. Then it may well be that in the national government and in Greenland you want a referendum, and then, of course, you hold it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419205511	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419205515	Thank you. I would like to hear the rapporteur from the Left how he sees Denmark now being a uranium-exporting nation, that is to say that we are going to be in the class where we are helping to deliver raw materials also for non-peaceful purposes, since there are really, very many gaps in the global security system that exists and there is also a great deal of uranium on the black market.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419205542	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419205545	Now I am elected on Bornholm and thus Bornholm, so the black market is not something I know about or in any way grow. However, I can hear that the rapporteur from the Enhedslisten has quite different experiences. This must be the case, and that is also why we are dealing with these two draft laws: if uranium is to be exported, the world community is very aware that it is something that needs to be treated particularly carefully. That's why there are these security procedures that we also agree to with this bill. So, of course, we must treat it very respectfully. I assume that this has come about in good cooperation between Denmark and the national government. And when all good forces play together, we'll play by the rules, because that's what it used to be when Denmark and Greenland work together.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419205638	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419205641	Well, isn't the Danish Parliament supposed to decide whether we should dig up that uranium at all? The safest thing is to leave it alone, and no bombs will be made of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419205650	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419205653	The rapporteur may be right about that, but we must also face up to the fact that uranium can also be used as an energy source, and it is also important for the world community to have energy. I assume that this will only be used for peaceful purposes; there are international commitments that will ensure that, and that is also one of the things we give our go for when we vote 'yes' today. And I suppose that if this is a great wish in Greenland, the Enhedslisten will also not stand in the way of giving Greenland the opportunity when all the rules are respected.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419205727	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419205734	Thank you. Uran mining in Greenland I see both proposals as very closely coherent, and therefore there will be a mix of the two proposals as I try to take them as a whole. I think it is connected, and it must also have been the opinion of the government that the two proposals are mutually dependent, otherwise I do not understand the context of the extensive material. It has, moreover, been a very comprehensive piece of material to get through, but if I am to pull it out of what I can, I would say that when the debate on mining in Kvanefjeld is again topical, we have to take a position on it, and we have to do so by means of two legislative proposals which pave the way for private companies to dig for and sell, among other things. uranium in Kvanefjeld. Greenland has had a zero tolerance policy until 2013. It means it wasn't possible to dig for and sell uranium. Both in Greenland and Denmark there was unanimous support behind this position, but the new Siumutled Government has decided shortly after accession in early 2013 that they wanted the zero tolerance policy abolished. It was decided by 16 votes in favour and 15 against in the Greenland Parliament on a very, very small margin, I have to say, on such a serious issue. Subsequently, the Greenlandic Government has given the Australian mining company GME the opportunity to apply for access to mining in Kvanefjeld, which contains a number of rare earths, among others. uranium and thorium. The parties behind the lifting of the zero tolerance policy promised during the election campaign that it would only happen after a referendum, and it will be exciting to see if it will happen in Greenland. We must look at the fact that the Greenlandic and Danish governments have reached an agreement that both mining and the sale of uranium can be initiated. These are the legislative proposals that we have to take a position on today and we have to vote on the legislative proposals in the wake of the agreement. I would have recommended to the government that they had talked to the Folketing about it before they started making such agreements, so we were involved before the agreement was made. The reason why we have to take a position on this is precisely that there are essential security and foreign policy aspects to selling uranium because it can be used for nuclear weapons. Mining is an area that has been taken home to Greenland, but foreign and security policy are Danish areas of competence, which is why it is a duty that we have to take a position when Denmark is at risk of becoming a uranium-exporting state. We have always been a non-nuclear country, and we are now in danger of getting out of a completely different caliber of countries. We do not want to take that risk and we have three reasons for not voting in favour of the proposals. Firstly, we maintain many years of agreement on zero tolerance. Uranium must remain in the soil, it is toxic to humans, it is toxic to the environment, and it is dangerous to the safety of the planet. That is why the Commonwealth should not allow the export of uranium, and that is what the legislative proposals are primarily about and not about whether Greenland has the right to dig up here, of course they do. Secondly, it is not possible to ensure that uranium is used only for peaceful purposes. The reason is that the government, without asking the Danish Parliament, has made an agreement with Greenland that it is okay to dig for uranium. For Denmark, as a non-nuclear country, this means that it can only be used for peaceful purposes, which we have the experts' word for not being possible to ensure. If you read some of the articles written among other things. in the context of the lifting of zero tolerance in 2013, it appears that new figures from the International Atomic Energy Agency show that there is a large black market for radioactive material, including uranium. From 1993 to 2013, therefore, there have been 2,331 cases of illicit trafficking in radioactive substances, including uranium. Of these, 419 fall under the category of illegal possession and related criminal activity. 615 cases fall under the category of theft or loss, and 1,244 cases fall under the category of other illegal activity. Therefore, there must be a very, very strong control body if you are to secure against such things. And this has even happened in a market where there is a lot of control in advance. Although there are a large number of international conventions and rules to prevent crime, we know that uranium is being smuggled and that there is a large rogue market for trade in it. As things stand now, Greenland does not have the necessary expertise, neither does Denmark, in my opinion, and it lacks financial resources in particular to establish the necessary basis to protect itself and to match it here. Thirdly, in the Enhedslisten, we are also opposed to the use of uranium as energy for peaceful purposes. That is why we cannot support the two proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419210258	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments, the first is from Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419210305	Thank you very much. The rapporteur mentions the need for competence building and, as we can see in the legislative proposal, it is proposed that it should enter into force as early as 1 July 2016. This, of course, raises some concerns about how to ensure that the competences are present to be able to lift the whole of this heavy security system, which needs to be in place. Are there any concerns on the part of Enhedslisten regarding that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419210331	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419210332	Yes, indeed, and that is one of the reasons. Greenland has, it is 56,000 or 57,000 inhabitants, who have to carry out this huge task with the control system that is needed. When not even some of the richest and largest countries in the world can carry out the task of control satisfactorily, there are 2,000 examples that radioactive material has been smoked outside the control systems... how on earth do you think Greenland can solve that task so quickly and in a society with so few inhabitants to secure it, i.e. financially. I just don't believe it. I do not believe it either, even though Denmark put its resources into helping Greenland secure it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419210417	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419210419	Thank you very much. Another concern expressed by the Enhedslisten is concern for the environment. There have been reports that previous investigations in Kvanefjeld have left up to 1 billion tonnes of waste after various investigative activities have taken place. In any case, this is a cause for concern, also because it will actually affect Denmark to a very specific extent, one might say.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419210451	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419210451-2	Yes, I fully agree with that, and I have also seen the articles which point out just how sensitive a nature it is that is being dug in and in which the waste is to be put. In this situation, it is formally the responsibility of the Greenlanders. In other words, if the Greenlanders dig it up and hold it up, the Greenlanders must take responsibility for it. But I am very, very nervous that if you start digging, it will cause very, very serious environmental problems for the Greenlanders. The waste has to be somewhere, you can't just export it somewhere else.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419210530	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419210533	I don't really think I've heard anything like that, sir. Christian Juhl has said that, strictly speaking, I do not agree with that content. I agree with Mr. Christian Juhl in virtually everything Mr. Christian Juhl has said, but I simply have to ask what it is that separates this area from all sorts of other areas where we are discussing Greenland relations and where Mr. Christian Juhl, even exceedingly zealously, persecutes any interference on the part of Denmark in internal Greenlandic relations. Then you can argue with Greenland's population base, and you can discuss everything else, but a number of other huge challenges of a social nature, for example. Mr. Christian Juhl generally refuses to interfere with Denmark. I think I hear such post-colonial views on the part of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419210628	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419210630	Yes, you could hear that if you chose to say that it was a subject like everyone else. For us it is a very, very special issue that Denmark and Greenland together go out and become uranium exporter for the particular reason that uranium can be used for nuclear weapons, one of the most dangerous and wildest weapons that humanity has invented. If you go out to a market that is not safe and close, you have to think very well about it, and we have to say that it is extremely important that we also take responsibility in Denmark, because foreign policy is a Community matter. That is why we have to take responsibility, and that is why we have to take a position on all politicians here: Will we be a uranium exporter with Greenland, yes or no? If you say yes, I think you have taken responsibility for it. That's what makes it so special.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419210720	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419210723	So this means that Enhedslisten's policy is determined on the basis of principles on which we are very hard at work until we think that the principles should be changed, because something is sufficiently serious to leave it to the Greenlanders. I believe that the social challenges in Greenland are so massive that it might just as well be said: all right, there are 5 000 children and young people at risk in Greenland, and we simply have to take action against that. But that would normally be rejected, which I also think is right, by the way. So I just don't understand this. Suddenly it is now the Enhedslisten rapporteur, Mr. Christian Juhl, who uses the Commonwealth. What are some imperialist terms suddenly used in the Enhedslisten?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419210803	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419210805	Thank you. Imperialistic terms are not. In other words, the Kingdom is the closest thing to independence at all in the process that has been going on. If you took the old colonial times where Denmark was a colonial master in Greenland and in the Faroe Islands, I could even understand it. Fortunately, we now have a self-government law that ensures that Greenland and the Faroe Islands can decide when they want to be self-employed. This is a completely different situation. But that is why I agree that we must take as much account as possible. We have just put it this way in the Enhedslisten that there are two or three very, very crucial security policy issues where we have to share this responsibility. And this must be taken into account in this situation. That's why we're taking that position. And nuclear weapons are therefore one of the essentials.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419210850	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419210900	Thank you. The bill here, No. L 155 is a natural follow-up to the Greenlandic Landsting decision back in 2013 to repeal the zero tolerance policy for the exploration and extraction of nuclear material. With the proposal, we ensure that the Kingdom Community can thus also comply with international obligations and rules on safeguards of nuclear material in Greenland for peaceful use. However, there are clear foreign and security policy aspects to what we have also heard in the past, as the Kingdom Community, with its adoption, could potentially become a safe exporter of nuclear material. It is therefore also very gratifying that Greenland's and Denmark's governments have recently reached an agreement on the very special conditions associated with this area, an agreement which, through close cooperation between Greenland and Denmark, will ensure the best possible control measures and tracking mechanisms in monitoring the use of any nuclear material. This follows up the recommendations of the uranium report and provides security for the framework for possible future handling and export of nuclear material from Greenland. The submission of the bill also gives me a good opportunity to call for the government's overall foreign policy strategy. After all, the Liberal Alliance is eagerly waiting for the investigation of the Peter Taksøe-Jensen Committee, which must be on the move unless it, like so much of the government's work, is postponed in the autumn, because without a comprehensive foreign and security policy strategy it may be a little difficult for Denmark to navigate and prioritise our efforts. But in the first place, I would just like to state that the Liberal Alliance supports L 155.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419211105	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419211109	What is the position of the Liberal Alliance that uranium can be used as anything other than peaceful energy fuels? And how does the Liberal Alliance feel about Denmark never before being a uranium exporter and thus a potential supplier of nuclear raw material?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419211134	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419211135	We cannot deny in the Liberal Alliance that uranium can be used for anything other than a peaceful purpose, but the proposal has just been put forward in order to create a proper framework for this not to happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419211152	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419211154	That it doesn't happen? I have just told you in my rapporteur's speech that within 10-15 years there are 2,133 examples of the disappearance of radioactive material in the international market. Doesn't that make a little impression?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419211212	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419211213	I can assure you, sir. Christian Juhl said that all that Mr. Christian Juhl says impress me and the Liberal Alliance. But I also have a great deal of confidence that the cooperation between Greenland and Denmark in this situation can be very effective and work and can ensure a proper and peaceful use of any nuclear material from Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419211237	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Nikolai Amstrup, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419211246	Thank you very much. The bill here aims to regulate the security control of nuclear material from Greenland in order to ensure the peaceful use of nuclear material and comply with the international safeguards obligations of the Kingdom of Denmark. And let me make it clear straight away that in the alternative we are absolutely not happy either with the prospect of the Danish kingdom becoming a uranium exporter or with uranium being extracted in the kingdom at all. We are very concerned about the possible risks and the long-term consequences of uranium extraction both for the Greenlandic people, for the Kingdom and for Denmark. We are also sceptical about the timing of these legislative proposals, and we would have liked to see the EIA study that has been carried out also published so that we could have the professional basis developed. At the moment there is a great deal of debate in Greenland and there are proposals for a possible referendum on zero tolerance policy. This is a debate that we are looking at with great interest and excitement. Having said that, however, we are also of the opinion in the alternative that we must respect the democratic processes of Greenlandic self-government, whether or not we are in line with the decisions taken by the Greenlanders. We see this law on nuclear material safeguards as a natural consequence of the decisions taken in Greenland. So, despite our concerns about the consequences of the Greenlandic decision to repeal the zero tolerance policy for uranium extraction, we see this as a consequence and a necessary law in order to bring about the legislation to ensure important safeguards of nuclear material and ensure that the Kingdom complies with its international security obligations. However, the hearing from the Lawyer Society also points out that there are some problematic areas in the bill on the inviolability of housing, and we agree with that. We will be working for greater attention to be given to the possibility of using a less intrusive instrument in order to take account of control considerations. We want to follow both this and the further development in Greenland closely, but we also attach great importance to the overall consideration of international commitments and the particular concerns of the whole safety of nuclear material. So, in respect of Greenland's democratic decisions, we are so far in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419211520	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first is from Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419211526	Thank you very much. The rapporteur and the alternative recognize that the Commonwealth will become a uranium exporter. This means that Denmark will also become an indirect uranium exporter. At the same time, the alternative also declares its opposition to uranium extraction, but it sounds a little hollow in my ears when they support these laws. Will the rapporteur explain?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419211557	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419211558	Yes, as I have said, in the alternative we have faced a dilemma, because yes, we are opposed to uranium extraction, but we also have respect for this, and I know that Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen has a great deal of respect for the areas that have been reclaimed by self-government. We have weighed that down in the sense that we see this safety law as a natural consequence and, moreover, due diligence in terms of preparation if
ParlaMint-DK_20160419211638	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419211640	I have to understand it quite correctly: that means that the Alternative approves Denmark and the Commonwealth becoming a uranium exporter. I still don't think it's entirely connected. In that it is two legislative proposals that we are considering here in the Folketing, one should also have an independent position on it, also in respect of what Greenland may decide.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419211703	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419211704	We certainly have an independent position on this. However, as I said, we also have respect for the fact that the areas that Greenland has taken home are under Greenlandic jurisdiction. What this proposal is about is that we are creating a law that will allow proper safeguards to be applied to nuclear materials if Greenland decides to continue.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419211736	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419211741	I was aware that the alternative was against digging uranium. I thought they knew that it was such a crucial special substance that it could put the globe on the other end if you have enough of it and if you use it wrong. I was also aware that the alternative believes that it is dangerous for people and for the environment. That's why I don't understand it at all. If you are against this, but still pave the way for it to be done well, are you not a kind of political fence which, like opening the way and saying that, for various reasons, you still have to pave the way for it, so that it can become a reality, that you get the opposite development of what you would like, even on a crucial, can we call it existential territory for humanity?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419211834	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419211835	Now I think that the term political heels may be equally harsh enough in this context. We have discussed it a lot, and we have also chosen to look at it in the way that if the situation were reversed and Greenlandic autonomy had made a decision that we were right, really happy about in the alternative, or others were happy about, and then in the Danish Parliament we began to make legal leghold traps for it, I am sure that Mr. Christian Juhl would strongly oppose it. So, in view of this and in view of the respect for Greenlandic autonomy, we have chosen to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419211920	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419211922	I can reveal that if Germany's environmental activists asked if I would help them block a uranium train, I think I would go down and help them with it because I think it is so essential. Although it is not Danish politics, I think it is so essential that you also have to go to extremes and help your neighbouring colleagues. Here we have a special situation, as we are very close friends with the Greenlanders and can have a civilised dialogue in this hall and outside the hall and in Greenland and all sorts of places. Shouldn't we use it to try to prevent the disaster that could arise in the wake of these two proposals?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419212000	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419212001	I fully agree that we need to use this dialogue, and I also think that as politicians in Denmark we can express our opinion on uranium extraction in Greenland and that we can express our opinion or our support for a process that allows a referendum to be held in Greenland on this issue. I think that is the right way to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419212024	Then we thank the rapporteur and give the floor to the next rapporteur. It's sir. Martin Lidegaard, on behalf of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419212037	On the radical side, we can support this proposal just as we can support the next proposal, L 158. It is not, however, because the idea of extracting uranium in Greenland has grown in the radical backyard. If I just put on my energy policy hat, I would perhaps allow myself to doubt both realism when we look at the world market, but also how much is in it for Greenlandic society. But that's not the point. What is at issue is what several rapporteurs have said, namely that if you choose to grant autonomy to Greenland, you also have to take the Greenlandic decisions seriously, whether you agree with them or not. This is true in this area, and it applies in a number of other areas. That's what it's like to have autonomy. Then you take political responsibility for your own country and your own future. In this case, we are dealing with an area, and it is not a secret that Greenland and Denmark have used a great deal of energy to negotiate, because of course it has foreign policy complications when we are going to consider possible exports of uranium from Greenland, simply because there are a number of international conventions that we have to live up to to to ensure that we have control over the safety and spread of uranium. Therefore, it has of course been quite timely that there has been cooperation between Greenland and Denmark in order to get to grips with those aspects of the matter. But the basic decision as to whether or not it is a good idea to extract uranium in Greenland is and remains, with the autonomy law, a decision that is put into Greenland's hands and for which Greenlandic politicians must take responsibility. That is what they are doing, and I would like to say hello. You can see that when you follow the debate in Greenland. This is going very well, and it can be said that if I were an investor, I would look very closely, because it is something that shares Greenlandic society, so one could hope that at some point there could be a slightly greater consensus among Greenlandic politicians. But again I would like to say that this is something that Greenland itself must take care of. This also applies to the question of what happens if the majority changes, so suddenly there is a majority against the extraction of uranium in Greenland. Well, that could happen. We've seen that before. But the whole of the Greenlandic debate must be respected in Denmark. We must respect the fact that the Greenlanders are taking and a Greenlandic majority are finding it, and then we in the southern part of the Commonwealth must try to deliver what is needed to implement those decisions. It is against this background that we support the two proposals. It is in respect of Greenland's autonomy. I find it difficult to come to a second decision, regardless of what you personally think about the extraction of uranium in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419212336	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419212341	Well, I guess that's not entirely true now, I'd say to Mr. Knox. Martin Lidegaard, that it alone is Greenland's responsibility and Greenland's decision. Well, there's a reason why we have to take a stand on this floor too. After all, there is a reason why the material provided to us in the legislative proposals has described a fairly important role for the Danish Government and the Ministry. We are, of course, formally responsible for international agreements. That's why we have to deal with this. And that means that it is not true that it is Greenland's responsibility alone, because it is a shared responsibility, one must say that it is in particular, otherwise we should not be dealing with it in this Chamber at all. That is why it is fair that we should also say our opinion on this and say whether Denmark can deliver on it. In other words, if you say yes to this, I guess we've also said yes, Denmark can deliver on this and vouch for it take responsibility and everything.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419212431	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419212432	Everyone is at least free to say what he thinks, and I myself have just said that. But there is something that puzzles me a little about the position of Enhedslisten here. The decision as to whether Greenland should extract uranium and try to export it is Greenland's. It then has a number of implications, as Mr. Christian Juhl is quite right in also being important to Denmark, namely that it is the Kingdom Community and thus Denmark, on behalf of the Kingdom Community, that has ratified a number of international agreements in this area, and that must therefore stand up to it. And that is why we have had the debate that makes sure that if it comes to that what I have to say in all modesty, I have to say, doubts that there will really be investors who are ready to invest in this area, it is of course also in clear Danish interest that we will then live up to all the international agreements that might exist in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419212532	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419212534	If Denmark is not able to deliver in relation to the international agreements, what I am in doubt about, much in doubt, when you see how the gap the system already is for all the major nuclear states, should you not say here or in the government or other sober places: Hey, we cannot deliver on this, dear Greenland; you have to wait until we find out a system that we can deliver on? However, it would be quite irresponsible in such an essential area, in other words in terms of nuclear power and uranium, to say: yes, but if the Greenlanders so wish.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419212610	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419212611	That is quite obvious, but I think that is also what is in the legislative proposal here and also in the next one. It is quite obvious that Denmark must make every effort to ensure that if we get into the situation of exporting uranium from Greenland, then it must be done according to all the rules of art and according to all international rules, so that we are sure that the uranium will not be spread to places to which we do not want it spread. And Denmark has a clear responsibility and responsibility to ensure that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419212640	There is another brief comment from Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419212644	Thank you very much. I share the rapporteur's scepticism as to whether the project can be realised, and that is an element, one might say. But now there is a political debate on this bill, and the rapporteur himself mentions that there may be a number of foreign policy complications. Could it be imagined that it could also cause a number of foreign policy complications for Denmark in relation to some international relations? Because it is something new that Denmark will then become uranium-exporting.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419212716	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419212717	I assume that Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen is thinking about the commitments we have internationally and the rules we have to live up to in international organisations, and it is difficult to say anything firm about that. If we live up to all the international agreements on the part of the Kingdom Community and if we estimate the quantities that may be involved, then it is not the case that Greenland will become a major exporter of uranium, and this will primarily be for peaceful purposes, as far as I understand the intentions. But it is difficult to answer the question precisely before we know the specific context, the specific producer and the specific quantities.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419212801	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419212804	A domestic policy concern or discussion in Greenland is, of course, this about a referendum, and although it is not part of this, a comment on my part may at least be that it could help to ensure a more future-proof effort in relation to what Greenland would like to do in relation to uranium extraction. So that's more of a comment on my part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419212828	Does the rapporteur have a comment?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419212829	It would be exciting to see what the outcome of such a referendum will be, and that will certainly give the people of Greenland a maximum influence on the matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419212840	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419212851	SF recognises the responsibility of the self-government for Greenland's development, and we also respect the decisions of the Greenlanders regarding possible mining. Any exports of uranium will then have to be controlled and regulated by international agreements, and the draft law in place provides the framework for a possible mining operation in Greenland not to contribute to the putting of uranium into the hands of parties that could use the material for military purposes. SF is very sceptical about any future mining for uranium, but we recognise the right of Greenlanders to decide. We wish the IA every success in stopping the process of uranium extraction. As I said, the SF will not interfere in Greenland's internal affairs, but we would say that we also think that this is a problematic democratic situation in which self-government has brought itself, with a very narrow vote on matters as far-reaching as we are talking about here. Thumbs up to IA, as it may be called in modern Greenlandic, and in SF we rely on a hopefully forthcoming referendum. Despite the efforts of among others. The IA will nevertheless be decided to extract uranium from the Kvanefjeldet, after all, this bill will ensure that it will be done in relatively safe conditions and that uranium can only be sold for peaceful purposes. SF supports the agreement between Denmark and Greenland and thus the bill, but we hope at the same time that it will never be used.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419213043	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419213049	Thank you. I think we can agree on one thing, even with the ministers, and that is that, if there is one day, so much uranium is sold for example. ISIL, that they can make the first and the second and the third bomb, will be a disaster. This also raises a problem which we have been pointing out for decades. At least the rapporteur and I have to say that we must remove all earth's atomic bombs from the face of the earth without blowing them up. I mean, isn't Denmark responsible if it happens that Greenland decides that they will dig up uranium and sell it if this is sold on the black market? After all, Denmark has the main control task in this legislation; it is not Greenland that has it; it is not Greenland's responsibility in this sense. It is, of course, formally Denmark that has it. Does the rapporteur have no idea that this is the case?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419213153	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419213155	Yes, it does, and that's why we're going to say again in modern Greenlandic: thumbs up to IA to stop this. We have all sorts of warm feelings about the political struggle against the extraction of uranium in Greenland. We think it is totally unacceptable to act as a big brother in here and stand up with the index finger to the Greenlandic people and tell them what they have best of. It is, of course, an emotional matter whether you think it should be uranium or other policy areas. As we speak here, Greenlandic children starve and freeze, and sexual abuse occurs. We may have some very strong feelings for this, that is, that Denmark should do something about it, but we recognise that it is Greenland's responsibility. We can't do this with our opinions. Sometimes we think we are taking over our old colonialist attitudes towards Greenland, but when you think that another topic takes up a little more, you mean something else. We have some principles in SF in relation to the relationship between Greenland and Denmark, and that is what we respect here, and we hope that this bill will never be used.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419213254	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419213256	Thank you. I think the rapporteur speaks out quite a bit. After all, we cannot use a very, very unhappy situation for Greenlandic children to say that then we must also refrain from other situations which are existential not only for the Greenlanders, but also for the Danes and for others, for who knows where on the planet such mineral can be abused? That is why I believe that, regardless of what the rapporteur says, this is a Danish responsibility, whether this goes out on the world market and goes into the wrong hands. It is a Danish responsibility, it is not a Greenlandic responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419213331	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419213333	After all, we share the concern about uranium extraction. We share the hope that this uranium will remain in the Kvanefjeldet at Narsaq, but I do not share the Enhedslisten's need to behave like an imperialist big brother to the Greenlanders.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419213355	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419213400	I know that SF is Denmark's green party... I have read great ads about it here recently... green on the outside and red on the inside like a watermelon. There's nothing wrong with that. But I would like to ask, since we are now so much opposed to uranium, what the climate problems of the world would look like if we did not have nuclear power, for which uranium can also be used. - Sir... Karsten Hønge also see any benefits from uranium extraction?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419213434	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419213436	It is certainly a new direction that the discussion will take, if we go very far into it, what I really want to do anyway, but I do not think the time is right for it. In short, however, it is about which directions are taken in energy policy. So, if you invest in nuclear energy, it means so much investment that your entire investment profile, your whole attention, will turn to an energy form that is not sustainable in the long term. That is why it would simply be a fundamentally wrong direction in energy policy to take attention and investment away from where the future really lies, namely in sustainable green energy solutions. That is the energy policy side, but that is not the reason why we think we are doing it either. It has now had no effect on our position other than that it could lead to pollution in Greenland, which I again safely leave to a hopefully future Greenlandic vote and to IA being sufficiently strong to convince the Greenlandic people that uranium should be left in the land of the Kvanefjeld.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419213538	I assume that means that the rapporteur does not have any more? Yeah. Then we have a brief comment from Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419213548	Thank you very much. Yes, SF is a green party; they have looked up to be a green party, and if you heard the hearing here not so long ago in the Danish Parliament about uranium extraction, you could almost be tempted to believe that uranium extraction could make Greenland greener. But no, that is not the case. That is why I think it is necessary to take a position on this. I do not think it is possible to compare this with vulnerable children in Greenland, on which there was a question debate, with the two legislative proposals on which we have to take a decision. I think it's mixing apples and pears. So I think it is necessary to take a position on this in a completely different way from the other, which is a purely Greenlandic responsibility, as things are right now. I would like to hear the rapporteur's comments on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419213638	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419213640	Listen, it is a question of debating on a fundamental level when I mentioned it with vulnerable Greenlandic children and young people. It is not, of course, because it is comparable in this way. It is about respect for which things we believe the Greenlanders themselves should take responsibility for. And I know that only calls for a great many strong feelings, including here in the Folketing, how many Members believe that we should intervene directly in the situation in Greenland, because it is almost unsustainable in the social field. There we also say that, regardless of the fact that we know how terrible things are in Greenland today, we do not interfere. So it is on the principle that I say it can be compared in that I recognise the right of the Greenlanders to decide on this in this context. But I hope to see that I have friends and acquaintances and almost also family in Greenland that they will help to ensure that the uranium stays in the property of the Kvanefjeldet. That is what I can do, but I think it would be dishonest to lay down formally here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419213744	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419213746	Thank you. After all, we can quickly agree that there is a need to do something about vulnerable children in Greenland, but it is a purely Greenlandic responsibility, as things are right now. It's not about this uranium thing in the two laws we have in front of us. I would like to say again that I think it sounds a little hollow, that on the one hand you say that there are some principles and, on the other hand, you say that these principles are dispensed with because you want to show this one such somewhat misunderstood respect for the fact that it is a Greenlandic responsibility. It's gonna be a shared responsibility with these two laws.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419213818	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419213820	For me, it's all new and, of course, something I have to go home and think deeply about. In other words, if Greenlandic members of the Folketing insist that we, as the Danish Parliament, have to intervene and take action against internal Greenlandic affairs, whether the areas are directly reclaimed or it is a divided area, then of course I have to think deeply about it. However, I believe that it will serve the Greenlanders well in just a little longer term to have Danish politicians who trust so much in the Greenlandic population and that they are making the right decisions about their own future, including whether uranium should remain in Kvanefjeldet's land or should be pulled up.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419213855	The next brief remark is from Mrs Aleqa Hammond, Siumut.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419213902	I would like to congratulate the SF rapporteur and the other rapporteurs who supported the proposal for respecting the autonomy agreement, for which we must all work. I would also like to commend them for recognising the competence that Greenland has been given in 2010 under the Raw Materials Act. It says, of course, that since we have taken the matter home, it is a purely Greenlandic area. We are legislature and executive in this area, and that respect is shown by the SF, I take off my hat. The fact that we have a different approach to uranium is something else, but as parliamentarians we must always ensure that we maintain and respect the legislation that we must all stand for.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419213945	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419213947	I thought it was more of a comment than a real question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419213952	Anything else? No. Then we would like to thank the rapporteur here. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419214009	Conservatives support the bill as a starting point. However, I would like to say that I am very much looking forward to hearing the contributions of the two members of Greenland's parliament and that we would also like to see further dialogue with the Landsting to hear their views on the matter. I understand that negotiations have been held with Greenlandic self-government and the Danish Government, but that we also lack the position of the Landsting and, of course, will attach great importance to how you look at this bill in Greenland. I personally have a positive attitude to the extraction of uranium if it is done for peaceful purposes. As I mentioned earlier in my question to Mr. Karsten Hønge, nuclear power accounts for about 11 percent. the world's electricity production, as far as I have just been able to break up. I would fear what climate problems would look like in the world if we did not have nuclear power. This requires uranium. So I personally don't have the same reservations for uranium extraction. But, of course, it requires that it be targeted peacefully. As I see it, the bill here seems logical to me, in that the raw material area is a Greenlandic matter for which Greenland's Landsting and autonomy have taken on responsibility. This does not mean that we should become a chief judge in the Danish Parliament, but Denmark still has no responsibility for security policy, including ensuring that there is no proliferation of nuclear weapons. We have some international obligations to which we need to live up to. As I understand the bill, that alone is what is aimed at it. We have to make sure. We have a duty to do so. And then it must be so that it is adopted in the Folketing, of course, in the greatest possible respect that otherwise the raw material area is a Greenlandic matter. If there may be any breaks between the two considerations, the consideration of Greenland's autonomy and the raw material area and Denmark's responsibility for security policy, that is, of course, something we need to discuss. However, as a starting point, this seems to me to be a logical legislative proposal which we intend to support.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419214248	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first is from Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419214254	Thank you. If you have respect for self-government, as several parties have also expressed, too, the Conservatives and you respect that it is Greenland that has to make the final decision, then it is a bit double moral that you take over a responsibility; that is basically what we are arguing about. I would like to hear the rapporteur's comments on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419214316	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419214317	I agree with that. But now that we are responsible for security policy in Denmark, and that is the responsibility of the Danish Government, I find it difficult to see how we can avoid putting forward a bill like this because we then fail to meet the obligations that we have in terms of security policy. So it is clear that these are two considerations which conflict slightly with each other. And that's where you have to make it fit together. But to me it seems to me, and I am delighted to hear the speeches of the two Greenland Members of Parliament, to be a sensible balance between the two considerations, that is, the security policy towards raw materials policy, because I do not see that we could just remain passive when we have these international obligations to prevent the proliferation of nuclear material.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419214406	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419214408	Thank you. This may also come out in the debate on the next legislative proposal, but perhaps it is where there are some major concerns about the fact that something that has been taken back in Greenland is actually being rolled back. So I'll take that up at a later date. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419214424	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419214425	I shall look forward to that, because it is important for me to have precise details of what Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen thinks is being withdrawn, because of course we should not take anything back. But then it has to be a little more specific, so I can understand the problem too, but I will probably explain it now.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419214444	Mr President, there is one more brief point I should like to make. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419214450	As far as I remember, the rapporteur replied to who is responsible for security policy. That is quite clear because not many of the other rapporteurs have noticed that this is actually the case and that is one of the reasons why we are sitting here tonight and having to take a stand on these matters. But then I would like to ask the rapporteur: where does the security policy start and where does it end and where does the law on raw materials start and where does it end? Because the rapporteur asked where there could be some fractures. Can the rapporteur tell me: where does the security policy start and end and where does the raw materials policy start and end?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419214527	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419214528	I can't tell you that, sir. Christian Juhl. I think we need to get some clever lawyers to analyze that. So I think you have to address that question to someone other than me.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419214541	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419214542	Well it is described in the material: From the moment you stick the spade or whatever you use to dig up with the ground until the finished product leaves Greenland, it is a matter of security policy. Even after the product has left Greenland and sold to another party, Denmark is also responsible for what happens to it; that is, from the spades to the ground. Can the rapporteur not see that there are plenty of broken surfaces here, lots of broken surfaces that give us responsibility?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419214615	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419214617	Yeah, I can see that. That is actually what I said most of the time when I gave my rapporteur's speech; and I do not understand why questions are being asked to which the answer is well known.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419214629	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419214638	Thank you very much. Inuit Ataqatigiit's position is clear: we believe that this bill should be suspended because there are three different proposals for a referendum on uranium on the agenda for the spring session of the Inatsisartut, which is just under way. And none of these proposals has yet been dealt with in the first reading. Several Greenlandic parties believe that the draft legislation should only be dealt with in Denmark after a possible referendum in Greenland, and there are several parties in Greenland who believe that Denmark should only deal with the legislative proposals when they have been through a public consultation in relation to the environmental consequences based on the latest EIA report. The people and politicians in Greenland are deeply divided on the issue of uranium and uranium extraction. Greenland repealed the zero tolerance policy in 2013 with a slender political majority in Inatsisartut with 16 mandates for a waiver and 15 mandates that were against. In eight cities and settlements, people have been on the streets on Friday 8 April this year protesting against uranium extraction and demanding a referendum. It is clear to everyone that the question of uranium has not been resolved in Greenland. That is why we have to ask: has it been completed in Denmark since the Danish Government is so busy implementing this legislation? For Inuit Ataqatigiit, it is about fundamental values. Should Greenland and the Commonwealth lead radioactive minerals into a world where there are enough nuclear accidents, and in a world that is struggling with nuclear material not to spread and come into the wrong hands? Inuit Ataqatigiit rejects the extraction and export of uranium and other radioactive materials. The treatment of this and the next bill has been on a very tumultarian journey. The case was first to be raised here in the Folketing, well to mark before Inatsisartut had been heard, and this allegedly happened after pressure from the Naalaksuisut and would have been at odds with the Self-Government Act. However, this was changed following pressure from the two Greenland MPs. I am pleased that the Bureau of Parliament has ensured that the two legislative proposals are not treated as an item, which has otherwise been proposed, but that the two legislative proposals are dealt with separately as they are now. Unfortunately, this was not the case in Greenland, where the two legislative proposals, together with two other Greenlandic legislative proposals, were dealt with under one. This is not appropriate for such a major issue, which is so important for Greenlandic society, but very much also for the Kingdom community. The legislative proposals and the complex of agreements between the Danish Government and Naalaksuisut were intended to provide a framework for extraction. There has been political disagreement between Denmark and Greenland about the demarcation of powers in Denmark's foreign, defence and security policy action in relation to this. In Inuit Ataqatigiit, we believe that the agreements undermine an area that we have taken home. At the same time, we want to say that we have a vertical disagreement with the decision to extract uranium and therefore also a vertical disagreement with the fact that the Commonwealth must be uranium-exporting. This cannot be changed by so many international conventions and assurances that this is being done solely for peaceful purposes and according to the highest international standards. Those who want uranium extraction in Greenland point out that this should not happen at all costs. It should not have environmental and health consequences for the people of Greenland. This is really positive, because then we may be able to meet each other, but it is important that we report this clearly. For has anyone ever seen a uranium mine with no impact on the environment? We are still waiting for the publication of among others. the environmental impact management report, the so-called EIA, which is an environmental impact assessment. The Jaspers refer to the fact that before the final application and the final reports have been in public consultation, one cannot have a discussion about the Kvanefjelds project. However, the problem is that the documents were submitted to Greenland's autonomy at the beginning of December 2015, and we are therefore awaiting a review. But it's almost five months ago. One might wonder whether it is because of the environmental and health challenges that the processing of these applications takes so long. Awaiting the final EIA cannot be the reason why we cannot discuss whether uranium extraction in Greenland should take place or not. Last but not least, I would like to ask: The law is set to enter into force on 1 July 2016, but why this haste? Instead, let us stop and ensure that the people of Greenland are heard. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419215201	Thank you. There is one brief comment. I should just like to point out that we must not photograph with a flash in the Parliamentary Chamber. It's sir. Rasmus Jarlov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419215214	I would like to ask whether Inuit Ataqatigiit's position on whether it is Denmark or Greenland that is going to stop this extraction of uranium, because I heard a little Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen argue that we should not vote through this law to stop the extraction of uranium in Greenland. I do not really understand that, because I think that is a Greenlandic decision. Denmark has the responsibility for security policy, but this bill suggests that if Greenland wants to carry out uranium extraction, which is a Greenlandic decision and a Greenlandic decision alone, then it has to be done within a security policy framework that Denmark has to run because we are responsible for security policy here in the Danish Parliament. The IA does not agree that it must be Greenland's Landsting that stops the extraction of uranium, and not the Danish Parliament that has to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419215315	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419215317	Thank you for the question. It is true that it is a Greenlandic decision, but IA has also had the same position and expressed the same position at first reading on this point in Inatsisartut, and we think it is really important that the large minority that we represent, but which also involves other parties, should also be represented in the discussion of this point here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419215345	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419215348	The second question is whether I could clarify what it is like for Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen to think that this is contrary to Greenland's right to make decisions on raw materials itself, because that was something I had questions about before. Could Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen just put a few words on that? How could Denmark act differently, given that we also have the security policy obligation that I assume Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen also recognises that we have and that we must therefore ensure that nuclear material is not dispersed?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419215421	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419215423	The main concerns about the return of Greenlandic responsibilities are, in fact, in relation to the next legislative proposal, so I will actually take them in the next item. However, I believe that there is a need to ensure a more lasting solution and precisely to ensure that it is a strong majority in Greenland that the population is also heard, so it is a strong majority of the population that shows a clear way in relation to where Greenland will move, and that is the position that IA stands for.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419215452	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419215458	Thank you. The rapporteur said that there were major environmental consequences. Will the rapporteur clarify what this is about?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419215508	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419215509	Thank you for the question. As I said, it is an open mine that is very close to a town with approx. 1 300 inhabitants, and I think it is really a pity that you are not looking at other business development measures in South Greenland, but that you are only putting this up here as the only alternative to creating work opportunities in South Greenland. I think there are some concerns about the environmental impact on the population and nature of the area. And this is a question of principle, we take a position on the potential 11 locations of Greenland where uranium can be extracted or where uranium is found in the underground.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419215550	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419215552	I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether she believes that a country such as Greenland will be able to deal with the international rules relating to the excavation and sale of uranium and whether the rapporteur might think that this could be done in terms of security in cooperation between Denmark and Greenland without there being uranium disappearing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419215621	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419215623	Thank you. Well, there are worries. No matter how you do it, there will be concerns about the environment and about the handling of the safety. The concern goes, among other things. Whether or not we have the competences, and it is also pointed out in this great report, which was published in 2013 on the basis of this uranium working group, that there is a need to develop some competences. Now we see that this bill is being rushed through and that within two to three months we have to put this law into effect. We have a number of concerns in this regard, because we do not believe that we can get those competences by then.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419215703	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Aleqa Hammond, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419215707	I cannot help asking the rapporteur a question. The legislative proposal concerns the control of the peaceful use of nuclear material, and that is what we are discussing, but the rapporteur is talking about open mines and Kvanefjeld, so I would like to ask what that has to do with the legislative proposal. It is not a specific application that we are discussing in the Folketing. The majority of Inatsisartut, in accordance with the democratic principles that Greenland is working on, have abolished zero tolerance, and this is the natural consequence of that decision, that is to say that we must jointly ensure the security procedure in Denmark. Is IA against that procedure?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419215755	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419215757	Thank you very much. IA is certainly an advocate of democracy, but we also believe that Greenland is in many ways a young democracy which also needs to be developed, and it also means that we have to take account of the fact that, in other words, there is a division of population as well as politically on this issue, and that is why we also have to take account of it politically. I also think it is very important to say that we have here a concrete project which will be what we are talking about very quickly. We are also dealing with the general issue, and that is why we are saying that we have some very fundamental concerns about environmental issues. It could be the Kvanefjeld project, which is the very concrete project that we have, but as I said, there are also 11 other places where uranium can be extracted in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419215840	Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419215843	Whether it is young democracy or old democracy, we are all faced with the same thing, and that is that we respect the majority decision. End of story! I would also like to ask a few questions about IA. The Kingdom Community has a common position on security and foreign policy issues to which we must jointly find a solution. Does the IA have any objection to the proposal that has been made to ensure that we follow the guidelines that the Danish Kingdom must follow according to international standards?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419215922	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419215923	From the point of view of the IA, I think it is important to point out that democracy is also about respecting the people, and that is where I think there is a challenge to just saying that it is a slender majority, which is just rambling through a decision. We know that there are a lot of families in South Greenland, in Narsaq, who have really, really big concerns, and that this issue also divides families and divides the people of South Greenland. So I also think that people's concerns should be taken seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419215954	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. And then, in fact, it is Mrs Aleqa Hammond who is going to the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419220025	Siumut considers it important that professions are, as far as possible, multi-faceted. Whether living or non-living resources are involved, we must make the greatest possible use of both employment and economic resources. Greenland has powers under the Act of Self-Government to take back matters from Denmark, and when Greenland wants to do so, they finance it and thus become legislature and executive in the area. This is the case with the raw material area. In other words, Greenland has the legislative and executive power. The Raw Materials Act was adopted with the agreement of all parties in Inatsisartut and has thus set a common line for the future legal framework in the field of raw materials. Later, all parties in Inatsisartut also adopted large-scale legislation. Thus Greenland in Inatsisartut has secured a law on raw materials and a large scale law with everyone's approval, which means that it can pave the way for a multi-tier economy and a multi-tier business. It is a natural wish that countries should be developed based on their own resources and opportunities. The majority of Inatsisartut have lifted zero tolerance for uranium, and this has led us today to consider a legislative proposal which is a direct consequence of this resolution, and that is quite natural. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is presenting a draft law for Greenland on the control of the peaceful use of nuclear Denmark is a kingdom, also made up of Greenland, and the Kingdom has its international obligations to comply with. In the field of raw materials, both the Danish government and Greenland self-government have ensured a joint statement between the Ministry of Business and Growth and the Danish Business Administration and the Department of Business, Labour Market and Trade on the export of e.g. dual-use products and technology. Siumut certainly believes that it is important to have a common understanding and common ground in the Kingdom of Denmark in areas which relate to international obligations and which Denmark has signed on behalf of the whole realm. This is a common understanding and a common solution which will ensure that legislative definitions and obligations are confirmed at all times. Therefore, a working group of Danish and Greenlandic authorities has been set up which, in the report on uranium extraction and export from October 2013, has established the need for an established system to implement the international commitments to carry out safeguards on nuclear material. The group's recommendation is that uranium extraction and exports from Greenland should be carried out in accordance with the highest international standards. Greenland has an economy that needs strengthening. Siumut believes that a multi-faceted economy based on fisheries, tourism and raw materials are core areas to be targeted in the future. This is an objective that is well advanced even before the raw material area of Denmark was reclaimed and an objective to be achieved, so that we can help to secure a more multi-faceted and diverse economy for the benefit of the population and generations to come. Developments in the field of raw materials will always lead to great obligations for safety, health and the environment, not least for monitoring bodies, as well as international obligations, which must be taken into account in a higher unit. The security control system corresponds to the relevant parts of the European Atomic Energy Community Regulation on the application of safeguards currently in force in Denmark but not in Greenland. The draft law establishes a security control system in which notification and reporting obligations are imposed, which is linked to the possession and exploitation of nuclear material and which must be supervised. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is overall responsible for security control in the Kingdom, but concrete security control tasks will primarily be carried out by the Danish Emergency Management Authority in close cooperation with the Greenland authorities. Siumut shall vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419220458	Thank you. Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419220501	Thank you very much. The Uran Working Group made a report in 2013, where the conclusion was that Greenland and Denmark agreed to disagree. And the disagreement was that the rapporteur, as chairman of Naalakkersuisut at that time, disagreed that it is Denmark that is responsible for foreign policy, security policy and defence policy in this area. It sounds like the rapporteur has a different opinion, so I would like to hear the rapporteur's views in greater depth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419220537	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419220540	I don't have a different opinion. My position has always been very clear with regard to the Greenlandic population and the Greenlandic authority in terms of raw materials: this is a purely Greenlandic matter. Greenland has the legislative and executive power in the field of raw materials. But I agree that we live in a kingdom where we do not have security policy over on our side. And whether I like it or not, it is the case that in the Kingdom community there is a common obligation to ensure that we follow the international rules to which we are all subject until otherwise determined. And that is why I fully agree with what the draft law says, in other words, that we must find common ground that takes account at all times of the competences that each of our countries represents and must comply with. I have disagreed with the definition of what are security aspects in relation to raw materials in themselves, which raw materials have something to do with foreign policy or security policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419220646	Thank you. Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419220648	Thank you very much. But we see with these two legislative proposals that some competence is being withdrawn, because it will actually be Denmark that gives a permit in a number of areas. So I would like to know what the reasons are for a change of attitude since last time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419220707	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419220709	I shall say it again: I have not changed my mind. I have been very firm in my positions, and I certainly have not changed my position, and neither has Siumut. We have spearheaded the lifting of zero tolerance. We are at the forefront of ensuring that jobs are created for the people of Greenland based on our own resources, regardless of the raw materials involved. It must be in respect of the people, it must be in respect of safety, the environment and health, just as our own law on raw materials, for which the IA itself has also voted, provides. I also think it is extremely important that we find common ground on all issues relating to raw materials. Denmark is not a uranium-exporting country when we adopt this... it will be Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419220756	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteur. Well, there actually came a few more. Here you go, sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419220807	Thank you. I would like to ask Mrs Aleqa Hammond if she thinks it is okay that, both when we vote and when we discuss, I say my opinion on common issues such as security and foreign policy, including when it comes to security and foreign policy in Denmark or in Greenland?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419220827	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419220828	I think it is quite appropriate that we discuss a given legislative proposal, whether you are for or against it. It's okay that you're against it. It is a democratically determined majority which will ensure that the legislation goes ahead or is rejected. As I see it, I am pleased that it is in line with Siumut's position, which is that we vote in favour of the legislation, and I am pleased that this legislation is based on respect for each other's competences and each other's laws, and is therefore still in line with the responsibilities of the Member States. That is quite right. It's okay to be against it, but it doesn't mean you're torn. You just have a different attitude.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419220907	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419220909	Does Mrs Aleqa Hammond think that it is possible to distinguish between which part of the process there is a law on raw materials and which part of the process there is a security policy, since we are describing in these rules that from spades to materials are placed in some very, very safe place in many, many years' time, this is a matter of security policy? Security policy is a very, very far-reaching concept when we talk about uranium.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419220937	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419220939	The security policy can change with history. Right now, the focus is still on uranium. Later, security policy may also be based on other raw materials sometime in the future, depending on how the world develops and what things you think are more important. There are also many aspects of security policy which have to do with this, depending on what raw materials you have to trade with other countries. So security policy is a lot of things. That is why I think it would have been quite natural for Denmark and Greenland to jointly set up that working group to ensure that we have a common understanding of the different definitions, and we think that is quite okay, we fully support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419221017	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419221024	I would like to hear Mrs Aleqa Hammond say a little more about where the disagreement goes, i.e. the interface between Greenland's right to determine the raw materials policy and the security policy that lies with the Danish Parliament here in Copenhagen. Because I hear that there is some disagreement, but I would like to clarify a little what exactly it is. I have heard it said that it is something about which raw materials are being involved. Is that correct, and are there other things where Mrs Aleqa Hammond believes that the bill here enters into Greenland's right to determine the raw materials?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419221109	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419221111	For Siumut it is quite natural that it will open up our opportunities for development in the country, including in the raw materials sector, not specifically with regard to uranium, but generally with regard to all the resources that we have in society, and that it is turned to the good side of the population, and that is for the benefit of all of us. Greenland has the legislative and executive power in the field of raw materials, which means that it is Greenland itself that decides whether we want to extract it or not. It is not a question of the government here voicing approval for it or not. Denmark does not become an exporting country, but Greenland does. But it will be the security and foreign policy aspects on which we must make a joint proposal, so that we ensure that the conventions signed by Denmark and the international commitments which Denmark has as a kingdom and which Greenland does not have are respected, so that it is in line with the obligations that we have as a country, and that is quite natural and appropriate. And this is not to pave the way for a major war or atomic bombs or the like, on the contrary. In other words, we are doing so in order to benefit the people of Greenland, in harmony with the commitments we have, also within the realm.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419221230	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419221232	Yes, I understood that, and I really think there was a lot of recognition of the need for us to have this security policy framework in which we must prevent the proliferation of nuclear material. But it is still not quite clear to me, because I am trying to understand whether we are entering into something that Greenland feels is contrary to the system of self-government. Because we do not want that, and that is why I would like to draw attention to it if something should then be changed in the legislation in relation to respecting autonomy and the provisions of the raw materials policy in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419221314	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419221318	The draft law does not conflict with the law of self-government; on the contrary, it respects the law of self-government. I also think that the disputes or discussions and debates we have had between Greenland and Denmark after the lifting of the zero tolerance have had its better days and slightly worse days, and that is not quite okay. Because this is a matter which Greenland has full competence over, but there are also some aspects that we need to be aware of, and which Denmark has also pointed out to us, and that is that we need to find a working group to ensure that we have some common denominators to work for. The working group has then come up with some recommendations that Greenland can live with and that Denmark can live with, so that we can work together on the international commitments that we all have to work for, with respect for the self-government legislation, which says that it is Greenland's Inatsisartut and Naalaksusususususususuut that sets the line for whether we want to extract or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419221422	Thank you to the rapporteur. Here you go to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419221431	Thank you for a thorough review of the bill. Despite the thorough examination, I would nevertheless like to make a few comments on the background to the draft law, as various aspects of the draft law have been put forward by the rapporteurs. According to the 2009 Act of Self-Government, adopted by a very broad majority in the Folketing, Greenland took over the raw material area in 2010 and thus acquired the legislative and executive power in the area. Against this background, the decision to abolish zero tolerance for the exploration and extraction of uranium and other radioactive substances is a Greenlandic matter. However, since foreign, defence and security policy implications are linked to precisely extracting and exporting uranium, this is a landscaping that requires cooperation between Denmark and Greenland on how this can happen. Agreement was reached between the Government and the Home Rule Government of Greenland on this in a cooperation agreement at the beginning of this year. Two Joint Declarations have been concluded in the framework of the Cooperation Agreement: on safeguards and on export control of dual use products. Both security controls and export controls result from the Kingdom's international security policy obligations. The joint declarations constitute a political understanding between Greenland and Denmark on the practical implementation of the two legislative proposals we are discussing today. With the agreements, we are implementing concrete cooperation to ensure that Greenland can continue its efforts to expand its mining operations while, as a Kingdom, complying with our international non-proliferation obligations and meeting the highest international standards for uranium exports. The main objective is, of course, to ensure that uranium extracted in Greenland is used exclusively for peaceful and civilian purposes. This is a complex of agreements and legislation based on the division of competences within the kingdom, which clearly clarifies the division of responsibilities and tasks between Danish and Greenlandic authorities. There has been a close and constructive dialogue and constructive cooperation with Greenland and Nuuk throughout the period. I am pleased that we have managed to reach agreement with the Home Rule Government of Greenland on the legislative proposal before us today. This proves that together we can achieve results for the benefit of the whole Kingdom community also in difficult and complex areas. Let me highlight in particular four key elements of the rather technical draft law. First of all, there are security controls. The bill implements the international commitments for Greenland arising from the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons concerning the control of nuclear material. Security controls can be described overall as an accounting system that ensures that all nuclear material and related installations, equipment and activities are accounted for. Basically, it is about ensuring that nuclear material does not fall into the wrong hands. Secondly, there is the division of competences and cooperation with the national government. Nuclear material security controls are a security policy area linked to international non-proliferation obligations. This is a matter of common concern and this bill is being tabled for Greenland in the Folketing. Close cooperation with Greenland on the administrative management of security controls has been set up. Thirdly, legislation with relevant EU legislation is fleeing. We cannot simply apply the legislation in force in Denmark to Greenland. The reason is that the tasks relating to security controls in Denmark are mainly carried out through Euratom, the European Atomic Energy Community. As you know, Greenland is not a member of the European Union, nor is it a member of Euratom. It is therefore necessary to establish a special security control system for Greenland with this law. There is agreement with the national government that the law should correspond to relevant parts of Euratom rules. Fourthly, there are intergovernmental agreements on recipient states. In order to follow the highest international standards for uranium exporting countries, the draft law requires that exports of uranium from Greenland require a so-called intergovernmental agreement on recipient states. The overall demands that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will make follow the highest international standards. This includes, among other things: compliance with international non-proliferation obligations and standards of physical protection as binding legal obligations in relation to the further management of uranium from Greenland. See, there have been a number of rapporteurs up here, but there are actually not so many questions left out, since the vast majority of questions have been about exactly the same thing. However, I will try to give Mr. Kasper Roug elaborates on § 10 (c). 2. Nah, sorry, it was DF's rapporteur, Jeppe Jakobsen, I have misquoted, I regret that. It has been a while since the parliamentary work started today. However, Article 10 (1) of the Directive does not apply. 2 the question of giving the Minister for Foreign Affairs an opportunity to grant derogations in specific cases. It is a question here that, for example, if you do not have the right to vote in local elections, you do not have the right to vote in local elections. If there is a lump of uranium or uranium material to be sent for study outside Greenland, but this is not a real start on exports, but a study alone, then it would be too big a device to set in motion such a full intergovernmental agreement simply to carry out a study on a small amount of uranium. That is why there is an opportunity for the Minister of Foreign Affairs to do so. The decision of the Minister for Foreign Affairs shall be made upon a specific request and the terms and conditions deemed necessary for compliance with the international security control obligations of the Kingdom of Denmark may be attached to the decision. The latter was a direct quote from the comments, page 26, first column. I hope now that I have shed a little more light on what this is really about. In addition, there have been two discussions. One discussion has concerned whether we in Denmark should interfere with what Greenland's Home Rule Government has decided. This is the position that Enhedslisten has taken: that regardless of the fact that back in 2009 you helped to adopt the self-government law and thus move the area to Greenland, you withdraw it when you are unhappy with what the Home Rule Government of Greenland chooses to do and say that you are now interfering. There I have much more respect for SF's attitude in this discussion. They say that you really disagree with what Greenland chooses to do, but that you respect that it is their right to do so. That was not my position, but my attempt to interpret SF's and Mr. Karsten Hønge's position on the matter. Although he is not present in the Chamber, I think he will be very much in agreement with that particular interpretation. I cannot understand those who say: Yes, we left it to Greenland to make the decision, but when they make a decision that we do not agree with, we want to block their ability to complete it. Nor can I understand those who say that it is a narrow vote or a narrow majority. Try to imagine that we turned the discussion around and said: it was close that there had been a majority for it, so we allow it anyway. Imagine that we had said it was only a small majority, so we don't want to respect it. So, I think it is problematic enough in itself to talk about it when it comes to Greenland's local government, but should we then introduce the same principle here in the Folketing: that if you don't think that the majority is large enough, you can't care about it? It's a strange discussion. Very strange. We have chosen from the government, including the then government, of which I was also a part, to leave a number of areas to Greenland's self-government. They make a decision, and that is their right. They choose to do so, and we respect that. Then there are some areas that are the competences of the Commonwealth, and that is to ensure an export control that means that when it comes to uranium material, we meet the highest standards. We choose to do that with the bill here. The last question I choose to answer here is the question of the so-called haste. This is an agreement that we have spent a great deal of time with the Home Rule Government of Greenland to negotiate. It is an agreement in which the submission of the proposal today is in agreement with our colleagues in Nuuk. And when it is the case that it is due to enter into force on 1 July, it is because we expect it to be adopted in the Folketing before the Folketing takes a summer break around the day of the Constitution. Therefore, it is most natural that the law comes into force at the next change of months thereafter. There's no hurry, there's nothing urgent about this reading of the bill. It is time after we can get the opinion of the Home Rule Government of Greenland in preparation for the submission of a report to the Parliament's Greenland Committee here. And therefore it is in full agreement with and aligned with the treatment in Greenland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419222416	Thank you. There are some brief comments. Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419222420	Thank you very much. Thank you for the answers to at least some of the questions I have asked along the way. I still find it striking that this legislation is being rushed through. I have to say that this is the position I have now. I also note that the draft law and the comments state that security controls will cost 3 million. kr. annual. It is an expense that the Danish state has until it can be passed on to a company. You might find yourself in a situation where there will be no company, there will be no raw material project on these minerals in Greenland, and then you will not necessarily have anyone to send the bill to. That will mean that it is a bill for the Danish state. I would like to hear a comment on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419222514	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419222518	You could also look at the opposite, and I do, namely that if there is no agreement that there is an opportunity to export it, there will also be no one who wants to conclude an agreement. What we are doing now is creating the framework for mining. We are creating the framework for the possibility, if part of that mining is digging up uranium-rich material, of treating it according to the highest international standards. I believe that it promotes the possibility of mining starting in Greenland. It is not up to me to choose whether there should be mining in Greenland. We have left this to the Greenlandic Landsting with the Act of Self-Government, and it has decided to do so. With what we are doing here, we are creating the framework for the regulatory framework around it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419222607	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419222611	But does the Foreign Minister recognise that this bill will be an authority in the area of raw materials security? Are you aware that you are becoming an authority and that in this way you are taking back some of the responsibility that Greenland has taken back?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419222626	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419222629	No, by no means. In 2009, a division of labour was made where the question of mining is in Greenland, while the issue of security policy and foreign policy lies in Denmark. Export control of uranium material is foreign and security policy. It has all the way through been a community competence, which is managed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Denmark. That's why nothing's being moved back.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419222656	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419222701	Now I am not so keen to discuss with the Minister for Foreign Affairs via straws, and if he listens to what I say, I have nothing against the Greenlanders deciding everything they like about raw materials, but I have something against the Danish Parliament leaving the Greenlanders to decide Danish foreign and security policy. That is what I have tried to say in my rapporteur's speech too to say that I will be involved in this decision, and if I am afraid that what the Foreign Minister has been involved in deciding on uranium is challenging our foreign policy to date, I would like to protest. I am fully entitled to do so in relation to the law of self-government. It's the whole Folketing, it's even the minister himself. That's why he's interfering in making a deal. So let us try to discuss the facts and let us discuss what we really disagree about. We really disagree on whether uranium should flow on the international market. We really disagree as to whether it should be Danish foreign policy to promote it. I do not think it should be, and I would like to say that I completely disagree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs on that. As far as raw materials are concerned, only raw materials, they can do exactly what they want in Greenland. They're allowed to do that. If they want their own foreign policy, they can also have it, but that is what you get by joining and making your own country.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419222824	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419222826	Sir. Christian Juhl must have the interpretation of things, as Mr. Christian Juhl wishes. I just want to say that I disagree with Mr. Simpson. Christian Juhl's attitude. I disagree with the attitude of interfering in internal Greenlandic affairs. I think it would be fair to say that when you have left the raw material area to Greenland, you have the question of whether you should be able to dig up uranium material or not. Greenland has made a decision on this. It may be that Mr. Christian Juhl disagrees with it. I don't want to get involved in that. I respect it. Denmark then has a responsibility for what we do if uranium material is dug up. We are taking care of that with the bill here, and we are doing so by ensuring that the uranium that may be dug up and may be exported is treated in a qualified and safe manner. I'm comfortable with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419222915	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419222917	That is where we are at the core, because I do not think it is justifiable, and when Denmark has to take responsibility, vouch for, as we have talked about today, that this is being done properly, I do not think that Denmark can do it. The Minister closes his eyes to the fact that there are thousands of examples of uranium floating around in a black market. We have at least two countries in the world that are alleged to have nuclear weapons that are outside the control system. I warned the Foreign Minister to form part of such systems when the security to be kept in such a crucial area as nuclear weapons, of which uranium is a basic component, cannot be kept. It is there that I believe that the Foreign Minister closes his eyes and makes a new foreign policy for Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419223008	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419223010	I'm starting to wonder if Enhedslisten has such a competition about who can ask me the most about the expression vouch for in one day. I'd say that's where you're supposed to be, sir. Christian Juhl several times on the platform, because I believe that Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen still runs internal competition. I guess there's nothing new in mr. Christian Juhl's so-called questions here. Sir. Christian Juhl does not believe that the system being set up is sufficiently secure. I think so, otherwise I and the government would not have proposed it. That is why we support this proposal as a framework that will allow Greenland to have a profitable mining operation and thus get the diversification in their economic base that is so much needed and where I understand that Greenland has a desire to have more sources of income.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419223053	Thank you. Sir. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419223057	Thank you. Now, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, we are still awaiting the government's foreign and security policy strategy. Could the Foreign Minister say a few words about the consequences and changes that would have for the government's foreign policy if the Commonwealth were to become a uranium exporter?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419223118	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419223120	I have to correct a misunderstanding. There is no need to wait for a foreign policy strategy. There's an analysis coming up. It's an analysis. On the basis of it, the government takes various initiatives. The analysis will be used as a presentation and proposal for a development policy strategy. It will be used as a basis for a defence settlement in 2017, but it is therefore up to the government to decide which parts of this analysis you will choose to place emphasis on and which parts you will choose not to place emphasis on. So the question is: what does this bill mean for our foreign and security policy? This means that we stand firm on an international framework; we stand firm on the UN track, on what the guidelines should be when talking about material of a particularly dangerous nature. And we do this by creating a set of rules that meet UN standards that meet the highest international standards, which are if you produce and excavate raw materials that have uranium in them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419223223	Sir. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419223225	Thank you for your answer. Then I would like to know whether the Foreign Minister can reveal whether Peter Taksøe-Jensen's statement contains some aspects of the Community as a uranium exporter.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419223238	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419223240	I can inform you that Peter Taksøe-Jensen's analysis will be presented on 2 May, and before that I have no comment on the content of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419223248	Thank you. Mrs. Aleqa Hammond, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419223253	I am very pleased with the Minister for Foreign Affairs' announcement that this is entirely in line with self-government and its competences, and that it is also something that is a direct consequence of the working group jointly set up by Denmark and Greenland and that the recommendations they have prescribed are followed. As I said, Greenland has taken over all raw material areas, i.e.: all raw materials in Greenland including uranium and rare earths and other mineral substances of economic interest for the future. In fact, this is also a bit of a new reality for the Kingdom community, because this is actually the first time that we have had a matter taken home which has a security aspect. This has also resulted in our developing our cooperation between Denmark and Greenland in a different way in order to find a common solution that is best for each other and so that we all meet the international obligations under the legislation. And I think this procedure has actually been perfectly natural and appropriate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419223402	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419223405	There was no question, so I would just like to take this opportunity to thank you for the good and close cooperation that has been with self-government to shape these agreements. It has been a complicated process; there have been many considerations to consider; there have been many issues to be weighed against each other. And it is clear that it has also given rise to challenges in terms of how to bring the text of the agreement into line. But it has all worked in a good and constructive dialogue forum, a good and constructive environment where we have listened to each other and found common solutions. That is why I also welcome the fact that Denmark and Greenland have succeeded jointly in reaching the agreements behind this and the next legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419223444	Mrs. Aleqa Hammond? Then it's mr. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419223453	Thank you. I shall begin by forgiving the Minister for the slight confusion of names, it has been a long day in this Chamber, perhaps most of all and especially for the Minister. I should like to thank you for the clarification of what Article 10 (2) is. Two is about. This is also a situation that we in the Danish People's Party can well understand. But I would like to ask the Minister if he does not recognise that it is still a little loosely defined, particularly according to what a smaller quantity is, because when we are talking about radioactive substances, even very small quantities can have a quite damaging effect, so perhaps we should be a little sharper on this definition.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419223542	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419223544	Yes. I can do that. As soon as I read the sentence here, I think I would have switched places with Mr. Knox. Jeppe Jakobsen, perhaps not at first reading, but at committee reading, where it would also be possible to give a more precise description of the criteria to be met if necessary, so that the Minister for Foreign Affairs could give such a mandate. When I say the Foreign Minister in the third person, it is not in a fit of megalomaniacs, but because it will be the minister in office at any time, and therefore it could be quite excellent if we got a clearer description of exactly what § 10 paragraph. 2, allows for.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419223627	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419223629	Thank you for that. I look forward to the committee's examination of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419223634	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419223637	It is almost like taking the words out of my mouth, because it is usually the Minister's job during the rounding-off so to say thank you for the many comments. Thank you for the broad support for the draft law, I look forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419223652	Thank you. Thank you to the Minister. No one else has asked to speak and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Greenland Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419223705	The debate is open, and that is Mr. Kasper Roug, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419223725	Thank you. We have, of course, dealt with L 155 in the first reading earlier today, and a system of safeguards must be established to ensure that the extraction and export of nuclear material from Greenland is carried out in accordance with the highest international standards. We have heard that sometimes, it has to be said. Like L 155, this bill we are debating now stems from the work of the uranium working group and the recommendation that there is a need for legislation in the wake of Greenland's wish to extract and export nuclear material. Nuclear material also includes uranium and thorium, a material which has a dual use option. It can be used for both civilian and military purposes. The aim of the bill is therefore to introduce an export control system in Greenland that ensures that dual-use products, dual-use products, are not used for the development and proliferation of weapons of mass destruction or fall into the hands of countries that threaten international peace, security and stability. The draft law introduces an export control system corresponding to the relevant parts of the EU Dual Use Regulation, which currently applies to Denmark, but not Greenland, because Greenland is not a member of the EU. Specifically, the export control means that the export of dual use products from Greenland is subject to authorisation. The bill also requires permission to carry out uranium and thorium-containing minerals, including yellowcakes, as they are called, similar to the regulation in force in, for example, the United States, Canada, Australia and the European Union. The practical implementation of the export control tasks in Greenland will be carried out in close cooperation between the Greenlandic and Danish authorities, as reflected in the cooperation agreement on export control with dual use products concluded in January 2016 between the Home Rule Government of Greenland and the Danish Government. It is proposed that the Danish Business Authority should be the competent authority for export control of dual use products in Greenland and among other things. carry out tasks such as deciding whether to authorise or refuse applications for export of these products, update control lists if the EU makes changes, cooperate with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, PET, FE and others on export control obligations in Greenland. In connection with the granting or refusal of an application to carry out nuclear material, the Danish Business Authority shall consult the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as to whether a so-called intergovernmental agreement has been concluded in order to ensure that the material is used only for peaceful purposes. If this is not the case, the export of the material cannot be authorised. The proposal also includes a ban on the export of dual-use products intended to be used in connection with weapons of mass destruction products. A fee scheme will be introduced to process an application for permission to carry out nuclear material from Greenland. The proposal on export controls and the Foreign Minister's proposal to introduce a security control system together provide an orderly, equal regulatory framework which guarantees that the extraction and export of nuclear material in Greenland will take place in accordance with the highest international standards. The Socialists support the proposal, and at the same time I must say that the Radical Left also supports Bill L 158.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419224057	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419224102	Thank you very much. After all, export controls are not just about nuclear material. It is about all kinds of minerals that Greenland can extract and thus also export. And that means de facto taking over responsibility in relation to the export of minerals in Greenland. I think it is quite important in the relationship between Greenland and Denmark. I would like to hear the rapporteur's comments on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419224131	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419224134	But there is no doubt that this has happened in negotiations between the majority of the national government and the current government. I know that the rapporteur comes from an opposition party and must of course indicate that the resolution that has been taken does not necessarily agree. But now there is a majority in Greenland that has negotiated with the current Danish government, so we respect that, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419224202	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419224205	Well, it's absolutely central to the fact that Greenland and Denmark have introduced this self-government law together and have ensured that Greenland can take home a number of areas, among others. in connection with the Self-Government Commission. This is quite important in relation to the relationship between Greenland and Denmark, so I think it is important to point out that we should be involved in ensuring that the legislative proposals we are adopting now are also in line with previous legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419224239	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419224241	I think that the IA rapporteur is somewhat opposed to what the rapporteur has said in the past. So now it is the case that there is a majority in Greenland that has agreed that they would like to make an agreement with Denmark, and this agreement should be seen as an aid to Greenland. It must be seen as an aid to Greenland and as an expression of respect for the cooperation that exists in the Kingdom Community. Now there is a difference in resources in the way that Greenland is a country of almost 60,000 inhabitants and Denmark is much larger, and therefore there is also a tendency that we naturally have more resources and more staff to be able to carry out these tasks. So I see it as an aid to the Greenlandic people and an expression of great respect for the fact that we must, of course, cooperate internally in the Kingdom Community.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419224332	Thank you. Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419224336	The rapporteur mentioned a few times the words 'highest international standard'. I sit and think: what if the highest international standard is not good enough? None of the rapporteurs will be voting in favour of this draft law, which has yet to answer the question of 2 000 leaks in the last 15 years in terms of radioactive material at the highest international standard. Is it absolutely ridiculous to talk about such things, or is it essential to talk about the fact that for many years we thought Iran might have nuclear weapons; that we know that Israel has nuclear weapons; that it is likely that North Korea has nuclear weapons; and that that uranium comes from somewhere that is not an official source but is a black market where they have been able to get these things? Does it make no impression at all when we talk about these things in a global perspective and that it is actually Danish foreign policy that we are discussing at the moment, while at the same time it is Greenland's raw materials policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419224443	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419224445	Now, I would like to say that this is a discussion which should reflect the fact that we politicians are not experts in the nuclear field. There we lean very, very close to the main experts we have here in the Kingdom, and the Socialists have great confidence that the experts of course know what they are talking about. We consult with them and make decisions based on it. There's nothing weird about that. It takes place every day, and it does so with all the legislative proposals that are at all. Alongside that, the draft law has been submitted to a hearing where, of course, there have also been some consultation responses in relation to what we are discussing now. Well, I do not see there should be the big problem of trusting the experts who have been inside and giving the recommendation that is now in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419224536	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419224539	Is it because the rapporteur does not believe that there is hot in the international system, or what is it? Now I certainly hope that the Minister has used more than specialists from the Kingdom to discuss security issues relating to uranium. I hope you've been out talking to the highest level of expertise at international level, because otherwise we're relatively bad. Well, we have a little work on Risø, we can talk to a little bit, and then we can read some books. I don't think that's enough in a situation like this. I mean, is it because the rapporteur does not believe in what I am saying, or is it because the rapporteur chooses to neglect the fact that there are leaks in the international uranium market?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419224617	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419224619	Now I think it has to be said that the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten is running a bit at a point. In other words, what I am doing is simply explaining what is happening every day in the context of legislation. If the Enhedslisten's rapporteur thinks that there should be this discussion about whether this is safe enough, then surely that is something we take in committee work. And then we can discuss it towards a possible third reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419224647	Thank you. Mrs. Aleqa Hammond, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419224650	I hear words such as the roll-back of the law of self-government and the black market and the like in the debate, words that I do not think fit very well into the draft law, L 158. After all, all raw materials which include uranium are an area which Greenland is also looking at seriously, and we will see to it that there is a possibility of extraction of uranium content; all possible raw materials with uranium content must be considered. You have to decide on all the country's resources, whether you like it or not. It's perfectly natural. And, of course, this should not be contrary to the rules of self-government and the legislation on raw materials. The same applies to Greenland too, which should not be contrary to the state's own international obligations, since we ourselves are not a state. Of course, it has been appropriate for Greenland, together with Denmark, to set up a working group and that the working group has made some recommendations which most of the parties happily subscribe to today. And that is also in line with and in respect of each other's obligations, which I am also pleased to see that the Socialists support.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419224807	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419224810	Thank you. Now I did not hear that there was a question in it, but of course we respect the Kingdom community and the cooperation that is in it, and that is also what the Kingdom community is based on. That's respect for each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419224823	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419224834	Thank you. L 158 together with the previous bill, will provide the framework for the mining of radioactive materials in Greenland. This bill deals with exports of so-called dual-use products, such as uranium, which can be used for both military and civilian purposes, for example. in nuclear power stations. The proposal also contains a ban on technical assistance, in connection with the development, manufacture, handling, use, maintenance, storage, tracking, identification or spread of chemical, biological, radiological or nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive devices. Well, that's very reasonable, isn't it? However, Article 13 (3) of the Convention does not apply. 5, again an authorisation to the Minister, as by e.g. humanitarian considerations may derogate from this prohibition. In the Danish People's Party we find it extremely difficult to imagine the situation in which, for particular humanitarian reasons, we are to provide technical assistance for the development of weapons of mass destruction, as these are by nature anything but humanitarian. This is, of course, a little at the forefront, and that is not the example set out in the comments to the draft law. Nevertheless, this is a very broad authorisation, on which we will have a particular focus in committee with a view to further defining and defining the scope for derogations. I have to say that we are in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419225021	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peter Juel Jensen, Left. Here you go. Maybe he's not here? Well, then we'll move on to sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419225050	As I said in the first proposal, I see these two legal complexes as interdependent. I understand the rapporteur for IA when she says that these are two large and heavy complexes. I fully agree with that. I am glad that I have discussed and interfered in matters relating to uranium and nuclear weapons in the past, because that is something to get through. To the discussion with Mr. Rasmus Jarlov I would like to say that he asked why I asked him: where does the security policy start and where does it end and where does the raw materials law start and where does it end? This is the complex we have and we could probably discuss it all night if we had time for it and had nothing else to do, because that question is endless. It's almost like the chicken and the egg. They're addicted to each other. That is why we are in a situation where, on the one hand, it is a matter of the law on raw materials, which Greenland alone has to decide about, they have been allowed to do so many years ago, and that is what they are doing, and on the other hand is about Danish foreign policy, which among other things. The Danish Parliament helps to decide. Other higher powers are also, but the Folketing is at least a key player to help define Danish foreign and security policy. We can therefore continue to discuss whether it is imperialism or whether it is really a matter of discussing Danish foreign policy and whether it is a law on raw materials or whether it is not just a law on raw materials. I don't think it's somewhere in between. I feel this way, and others must correct me that if Greenland wants to conduct its own foreign policy, it is a prerequisite that you take a vote and become independent. I shall vote in favour of this. It will be very, very good for the Greenlanders, the day Greenland has the opportunity to become an independent nation. Until then, however, we have a relationship of interdependence in which the Folketing has the right to conduct foreign and security policy. Then we can share it in some specific situations, and I think that is a good idea, but I insist on helping to formulate foreign policy as long as it is where it lies. Similarly, if I were a Greenlander, I would insist on and fight forever for the law on raw materials, the law on raw materials, or, for that matter, the policy on children and social policy in Greenland or any of the areas that have been repatriated. But because we have the relationship between Greenland and Denmark that we currently have, and which lies somewhere in the middle of a colony and independence, it is the case that we have to make a decision. And when it comes to something as absolute as uranium, with which to make something as absolute as nuclear bombs, I think it is very important. For Enhedslisten, digging up uranium is not a good thing. Nor is it a good thing to put more uranium on the world market, especially when the world market is as hollow as it is. If I sat in the government or was part of the majority in Greenland and had been elected to the Greenland Parliament, I would certainly say to my Prime Minister and my other ministers: should we not leave it in the ground until we are sure that we do not help to create some unfortunate situations? That uranium comes from somewhere. Well, we can wash our hands and say that we should not talk about that at all today, but the uranium on the market, the black market, comes from somewhere. It's gone out of a hole somewhere. There is, of course, a reason why some countries have been able to make nuclear weapons, even if we do not want them to. We close our eyes to some of it. If these are our friends in Israel, we'll close our eyes. If it's North Korea, we'll keep a close eye on it and think about where they got uranium. After all, we have to do something about ourselves whether we want to be jointly responsible for this, and I think that is a very, very central issue when we discuss these things. I think, like all the rapporteurs, that this is something that I do not have to take a position on, because it is Greenland's responsibility. No, it's not. It is Danish foreign policy that we are talking about, and therefore it is important that you take a position on it. Because when you vote, at least you automatically take a position on it without using words on it. This is a very far-reaching decision, and that is why I may be speaking in a slightly sharper tone than usual. Perhaps it is one of the worst decisions to make, just as when we have to send bombers to Syria or do something else that cannot be changed again. Then we have to think really, really carefully.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419225600	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go. You have to press something earlier. That is regrettable. That's the way it is. Sir. Carsten Bach. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419225624	Thank you. All I have to do is confirm here that the Liberal Alliance supports the L 158 bill, which we therefore support L 155. We look at it a little like Mr. Christian Juhl as a legal complex, and that is why we also support the present proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419225647	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Aleqa Hammond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419225651	I am pleased to hear that the Liberal Alliance is voting in favour of the proposal. I would just like to make a point, because I often hear in the whole debate that foreign policy is a purely Danish matter. That is not quite true, because Greenland has foreign policy competence in all areas of responsibility. In other words, we are conducting direct negotiations with other countries. That is, for example, the case. with Norway on fisheries, on raw materials legislation with other countries that we would like to trade with, and so on. But what has not been taken home is the security policy aspects, and that is where the Danish Kingdom comes in, and that is why we need to get this agreement in place. I just want to make sure it's on the right track. What I heard from the platform just now is not correct, namely that all foreign policy is a Danish responsibility. It's not. It's only in areas that haven't been taken home.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419225743	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419225746	I welcome that remark. It may also contribute to Mr. Christian Juhl's eternity machine from before. I don't think I'm gonna step into that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419225757	Mrs. Aleqa Hammond? No. Then it is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419225803	Thank you very much. With the two legislative proposals: what we have just considered, and this bill we are talking about expenditure for the state of approx. 3.3 million kr. annual. I would like to hear what the position of a liberal party is that the state has a number of costs to ensure Greenlandic uranium extraction and uranium exports.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419225832	After all, it is our view that, now that the Greenlandic Landsting has decided that it could possibly be an opportunity in the future to extract uranium in Greenland, we in the Kingdom community also have to deal with the security and foreign policy aspects that are at stake and comply with the international commitments that we have in this regard. That is why, of course, we need to make the administrative efforts that need to be made in this regard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419225859	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Nikolai Amstrup, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419225906	Thank you very much. This bill introduces an export control system in Greenland, which means that the export of so-called dual-use products from Greenland must be obtained. Much of what has been examined and much has been discussed in the same fields, so I would like to make it clear briefly that in the alternative we are absolutely not happy with the prospect of the Danish Kingdom potentially being a uranium exporter, but that, in respect of the decisions taken in Greenland's self-government, we are also inclined right now to support this proposal. We are also aware that there is a problem, or at least one point of attention, in this proposal in relation to the other, namely that it has specifically been written that dual-use products are not only about uranium but can also be very different. We must, of course, be aware that the whole of the raw material has been reclaimed by Greenland's self-government, but also be aware that the fact that there is a control system when it is dual use products does not prevent an export, but only is a question of ensuring that these products are not used for military applications. As I said, in the alternative, we are not happy with uranium extraction at all, but in respect of the democratic decisions of Greenland's self-government, we have chosen to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419230052	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We move forward in the rapporteur's line and the next one is the SF's rapporteur, Mr. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419230109	SF supports the introduction of an export control system for Greenland in the event of a future mining operation. The regulation and control of exports of uranium-containing products must follow international agreements in this area, and it will provide some certainty to get the framework in place. The bill is an expression of the negotiated outcome which has come out of the cooperation between Greenland and Denmark. That is why the SF supports the proposal, although we hope that mining will never actually get under way.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419230152	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's line. The Conservative rapporteur is not seen to be present, so it is Aaja Chemnitz Larsen from IA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419230219	Thank you. Inuit Ataqatigiit notes that Greenland's proposal merely becomes a consultative party, namely in § 7 (1). 3 and, in some cases, only to be informed, i.e. in section 11, paragraph 3. 2. It is a step backwards for a country that is working towards increased autonomy, and IA believes that Greenland itself should set the framework for whether Greenland can one day become a mining country, and in that case what should be extracted and exported. According to the draft law, the Minister of Industry and Growth may lay down rules on a control list similar to the European Union list of dual-use products. The bill covers more minerals and raw materials than Greenland is likely to export, so export controls are not only about nuclear material, but about almost all mines that can be thought of in Greenland, including large-scale nickel, copper, molybdenum, titanium and other elements and minerals. And you are therefore tempted to ask whether Denmark should control virtually all mining operations in Greenland in the future. With this bill, the Minister will have de facto control over future exports of Greenlandic minerals, as the Minister also has the opportunity to add dual-use minerals. Inuit Ataqatigiit believes that with this bill Greenland withdraws responsibility for the raw material area, which has otherwise been repatriated to Greenland with the 2009 Self-Government Act. This bill allows the Minister of Business and Growth to draw up a list of elements used for military purposes, with reference to the list of the European Union. The list of elements used for military purposes is constantly changing, so it is also an open list, as we say yes to today. And this requires a guarantee to the people of Greenland that the list must always be fully updated as a minimum. On the Inuit Ataqatigiits side, we would like to make it clear that we are not opposed to Greenland cooperating with Denmark on security and export controls. However, we would also like to point out that we have a self-government agreement based on mutual respect and trust, and that we are opposed to the transfer of an important part of the decision-making power to Denmark in the first area that Greenland has taken back since the introduction of self-government, namely the raw material area. We consider it unacceptable that the agreements between Greenland and Denmark on uranium and the management of dual-use products have been concluded outside the Greenland Parliament, Inatsisartut, and outside the population. If you look at the areas that are directly or indirectly adversely affected by the Kvanefjelds project, then the police chief in Greenland reminds that it can be time-consuming and associated with some very large financial consequences for the police community in the form of helicopter transport. The Labour Inspectorate is also affected, where the bill will be passed on to the company. According to the comments to the draft law, there is considerable uncertainty as to when the first application can be expected and what the amount of the fee should be. Nevertheless, the draft law will already enter into force here on 1 July 2016. Does it have to put this legislation in place, and if so, what is the reason for this? From the side of Inuit Ataqatigiit, we must ask: who is it that this is being rushed through? Whose interests is this about? We can only note that this is not about safeguarding the interests of the people of Greenland in a strong democracy and having their voice heard on such a fundamental issue as the extraction and export of radioactive materials. We also believe that it is a common interest to protect the division of powers that we have agreed through the Self-Government Act. It is expected that the bill will cost Danish society up to DKK 300,000. annual, before the first application is received, and it can be expected that there are very high fees to ensure that there is an economic balance. At the same time, security controls mean annual costs for the State of approx. 3 million kr. But if there are no applications, this can be cost-effective for Danish society, and it can be said that the state and thus a large majority here in the Danish Parliament will thus support Greenlandic uranium extraction with millions of kroner annually. It must be said that the Folketing also has a responsibility for this. In its reply to the hearing, the Lawyers' Council points out that the free access of export controls to inspections is contrary to the constitutional protection of the inviolability of housing, which is worth commenting on by the Minister. In conclusion, I would like to thank the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for giving us, in connection with the previous draft law, the opportunity to obtain a technical briefing. I had also hoped that we might be able to get this from the Ministry of Business and Growth, because it is a legislative proposal that is of great importance, not only for Greenland, but for the whole Kingdom community, and at the same time is technically difficult to obtain. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419230805	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line, and this is Mrs Aleqa Hammond from the SIU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419230826	I shall now present Siumut's position. Siumut considers it important that professions are, as far as possible, multi-faceted, whether living or non-living. We must make maximum use of both employment and economic benefits. Greenland's economy needs strengthening. Siumut believes that a multi-faceted economy based on fisheries, tourism and raw materials are core areas that we must focus on in the future, which, incidentally, all parties have agreed on for many years. It is an objective which was set out even before the extraction of raw materials from Denmark; an objective to be achieved so as to ensure a more multi-faceted and diverse economy for the benefit of the population and generations to come. The Raw Materials Act was unanimously adopted by all parties in Inatsisartut. It is a law which must ensure that we work at all times to ensure that mining in Greenland is not a danger to health and the environment. All parties have been united in this respect. The Minister for Business and Growth has proposed a law for Greenland on the control of exports of dual-use products. This bill is a perfectly natural consequence of the repeal of the zero tolerance policy adopted by the majority of Inatsisartut. Siumut believes it is important to have a common understanding and basis in the Kingdom of Denmark in areas relating to international commitments signed by Denmark on behalf of the whole realm; a common understanding and common solution that will at all times ensure and confirm the legislative definition of the obligations that we both face. A working group of Danish and Greenlandic authorities reached the recommendation that a regulatory and administrative framework should be established, including: control of dual-use products if the Kingdom of Denmark is to comply with the international obligations in this field. The bill, together with proposals for a law for Greenland on the control of the peaceful use of nuclear material put forward by the Foreign Minister, is the legislative follow-up by Denmark to the work of the government's so-called uranium working group. Denmark is also a kingdom of Greenland. The Kingdom has its international obligations to comply with. In the field of raw materials, both the Danish government and Greenlandic autonomy have made a joint declaration on dual use products and technology; a common understanding and a common standing which Siumut welcomes. The purpose of the bill is to ensure that dual-use products are not used for critical purposes and that the Kingdom of Denmark complies with its international obligations in relation to exports of dual-use products from Greenland. Siumut shall vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419231131	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first is from Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419231137	Thank you very much. The rapporteur mentioned earlier that Denmark can reject export licences under this law, and that is correct. But then you can ask the rapporteur how it makes sense for Greenland to extract something if it cannot be exported. After all, the rapporteur himself referred to the reason why we would like to see growth in the various business pillars in Greenland, so it is also a growth issue. Therefore, it can be said that Greenland may be in a situation where we extract some different minerals, but in fact it is not possible to export them if Denmark slows down.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419231219	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419231221	After all, it is not up to Denmark to decide whether Greenland should have mining or not. It's a purely Greenlandic matter. Greenland has the legislative and executive power. However, since Greenland has not regained competence in the area of security, Denmark and Greenland have a shared responsibility, and we must abide by that regard, whether we like it or not. I do not regard this as a roll-back of self-government legislation. On the contrary, I see it as an initiative between two countries that are connected - hanging on to each other - because we are a community of kingdoms and acting according to our mutual obligations with respect for each other's legislation. I see this as the way forward to find common ground in an area which is completely repatriated, but where Denmark is still a little invaded. I think that the recommendations of the working group have been very well on the way and that the recommendations have been a compromise between the wishes of two countries, and I think that this is a perfectly natural follow-up to what we are doing today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419231327	Then it is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419231329	Now it is not a security policy proposal that we are dealing with, it is a question of export controls. And you just have to see, when you read the bill, that Greenland is reduced to being a consultative party or, in some cases, to being only informed. And it is worrying about safeguarding Greenland's interests if it is that you want to have growth in relation to the raw materials industry, because you actually give out a great deal of competence and are not an authority in relation to exports.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419231403	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419231405	Now it's the first time we've heard that report from IA. And there have also been several lawyers in it to have it assessed and it must also be said that it is not correct, as the IA understands it. It is true, and with respect for the rules of self-government and respect for each other's competences, that we are making this legislation. A majority in Inatsisartut and a majority in the Folketing will not then adopt legislative proposals which are contrary to the law of self-government and contrary to the role of the Kingdom in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419231435	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419231440	The latter could of course be done if Greenland accepted it, but I would not if I were Greenlander. I just think that such things can of course be done in theory, but the development goes the other way, so that Greenland becomes more and more independent, and that is probably what most people in this room and most in Greenland want to see you get into a situation where you can become self-employed. But what I really want to ask Mrs Aleqa Hammond is: can a country or a self-government not come into a situation where the exploitation of raw materials poses such a risk that we should not do so? And could one not, for the sake of responsibility for people and the environment and the security of the world, come into the position that zero tolerance was the right decision to make? Can't that happen? I think that Mrs Aleqa Hammond is mostly talking about what is economic in it. After all, as people and politicians, we also have the responsibility for ecosystems and security.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419231540	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419231542	I am not the type of person who says if and if, as the rapporteur said a moment ago. Now we have very clear legislation that we are following and that legislation is based on the Greenlandic raw materials law, which was adopted in Greenland in 2010 and which all the parties in Inatsisartut adopted. It says that all mining in Greenland can only happen if it is not a danger to health and the environment. That goes without saying. In other words, we will not in any way make extraction of raw materials in Greenland, disregarding our own legislation. We have very strict legislation that we must all follow, and that is our common position. It says very clearly that if it is a danger to health and the environment, no licence should be granted to anyone. We have very strict guidelines that we must follow, and that is our guarantee that this is done in a sound manner. And that is quite right.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419231644	Sir. Christian Juhl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419231646	Now I also mentioned security, because I believe that security is a collective responsibility which all self-governments and countries and politicians must take for that matter. If it turns out that the highest scientific or technical standard is not high enough to control uranium in the world, then there can't be a situation I'm just asking, and one can just say that it's theory where a responsible government in Greenland or in Denmark has to say no to the extraction of uranium if things aren't okay?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419231723	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419231725	That is why we have legislation that both Greenland and Denmark must follow. That is why we are dealing with legislation that will ensure that we have the highest international standards of control at all times. Greenland already has foreign competence and foreign policy negotiating powers in the fields of raw materials, so it is up to Greenland itself which countries we would like to cooperate with. However, when it comes to areas of security with which Greenland has not been repatriated, it is important in this context that we have common ground with Denmark with which we have to work together under this legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419231802	Then there are no more brief comments and we thank the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Peter Juel Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419231815	Thank you for that, President. Of course, I regret that I am only now in the rapporteur's line, but there was a strong desire to save the best for the end. I have promised the rapporteur of the Left, Marcus Knuth, to read his speech this evening. When nuclear material is extracted, it is essential that the framework is in place because nuclear material can be used for quite peaceful purposes, but we are also dealing with something that can be abused to such an extent that it may potentially pose a serious risk to international peace, security and stability, especially if it comes into the wrong hands. That is why we are now following up this bill on the recommendations made in 2013 by the so-called uranium working group, among others. was recommended that we introduce an export control system in Greenland which dictates that export permits should be obtained. We in the Left think that is quite reasonable. Because when it comes to nuclear material, we need to be extra careful. We live at a time when some groups do not have limits on how far they will go to hurt us, and therefore it is crucial that we listen to the recommendations made by the experts. We need to set up the necessary framework to check where the material ends up, and that is what we are doing with the bill here. We are pleased with that in the Left. The Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419231947	There are no brief comments and we thank the rapporteur. Then we are done with the rapporteur's line and we are giving the floor to the Minister for Industry and Growth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419231955	Thank you. I would also like to sign for the many comments made by the various parties and rapporteurs in relation to this draft law, which, as many rapporteurs have also mentioned, fully follows up on the draft law that was dealt with just now, namely the Foreign Minister's draft law. I would like to start by saying that this is, of course, also a very technical legislative proposal. I must admit this to those who, in many ways, think it may be a very difficult thing to get through all the annexes, which is why I would also like to offer that it may not be tonight after all, but over the next few weeks a technical review will be carried out. Because I think it is entirely appropriate to have that wish, and I will of course also ensure that it is invited to do so, so that during the technical examination there we can also have an opportunity to go a little further into detail, so that we do not just have to discuss technology here at first reading, but that we have an opportunity to take the technical issues during the technical examination. However, as several have also mentioned, and this view I fully share, this bill is, in fact, a bottom-up task that is necessary if the Kingdom of Denmark is to fulfil the international control obligations relating to the export of uranium and other dual use products from Greenland with possible military use. I am also pleased with the broad support that the proposal meets here in the Folketing, and of course I also note that there are parties which have a different attitude and wish to ask further questions during committee reading. The bill here, together with the Foreign Minister's bill on nuclear safeguards, constitutes the legislative follow-up to the work begun with the joint uranium working group of the previous government and the self-governance, which has also resulted in the agreement reached by the Government with Greenland on cooperation, among other things. control of dual-use products. That's one of them. Mrs Aleqa Hammond has also been mentioned here from the platform, and she has very well described the whole process, and she has also spoken in the debate here today and, I would say, both asked a large number of relevant questions and made comments in this regard. And I also sign on behalf of the government for the active participation along the way. With this bill, we then establish an export control system for dual use products in Greenland that meet the international export control obligations, and thus create clear and necessary framework conditions for implementing raw materials projects in Greenland. In terms of content, the bill corresponds to the relevant parts of the EU Dual Use Regulation, and in accordance with the Joint Declaration between the Government and the Government on export control, the practical implementation of the tasks will be carried out in close cooperation and coordination between the Danish and Greenlandic authorities. In addition, the bill includes a requirement to obtain permission for the export of ores containing radioactive material at certain concentrations. Thus, legislation meets the international standards that also apply to the export of such ores. That is also why I would like to comment on some of the comments that have been made that the draft law concerns only the export of dual-use products, including nuclear material in the form of uranium and thorium. So, for example... It will not be possible to include iron, nor will it be possible to include nickel or copper, which we have been able to get the impression of during the debate here today. But it is aimed at uranium in relation to having full security of where such a raw material might move. However, I would like to say that I look forward to the further examination of the committee, and that I also hope that I will take the initiative as soon as possible for a technical review for those Members who might be interested in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419232414	Thank you. There is a brief comment and it is from Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419232418	Thank you very much for the answers. I would like to sign for them and thank the Minister for calling a technical briefing. I think that is very positive. There will of course also be the opportunity to go into the detail of what some products are. That is one of the concerns we have at least about, in relation to how much competence we are given in this area. So it's just a thank you from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419232448	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419232451	The government always accepts thanks and praises, even when it is a little late in the evening. So with this I do not think I can contribute further to the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419232454	Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen apostates, and then it is Mr. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419232504	I would like to know, because now it is another minister we have here, whether this is not really foreign and security policy as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419232510	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419232513	I think the discussion has been here, I must say to Mr. Christian Juhl. And I just said in my presentation that it follows on from the agreement that has now been made and on which the Foreign Minister then had a legislative proposal that was under discussion just before this. That's why we could call this bill the execution of the legal complex that was discussed earlier. That is also why it is being dealt with together, however, in two separate proposals, which I also think make very good sense. But I am not here because of being Secretary of State. I am here because I am Minister for Business and Growth and I am responsible for the Danish Business Authority, which has been delegated this task.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419232555	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419232557	But let me ask you a question about the market. Is the Minister safe at the world's uranium market? Is the Minister comfortable with the guarantee that no uranium will disappear into dark forces which we do not think should have uranium in their custody and which we certainly do not think should have nuclear weapons in their custody? Is the Minister comfortable with the market that exists?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419232624	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419232629	I think I will stick to answering questions relating to the legislative proposal. There I can say that I am of course comfortable with the legislative proposal that has now been put forward, and I am also looking forward to the questions that might come along. But questions which have the character of how the potential production of uranium takes place around the world are not within my sphere of responsibility. So this is not really an area on which I intend to enter into a major discussion this evening, but the question can of course be put in writing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419232653	Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is over. I propose that the bill be referred to the Greenland Committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419232709	The debate is open. And the first speaker is the Minister for Children, Education and Gender Equality. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419232737	Thank you. The Enhedslisten has tabled motion for a resolution B 83, which requires the government to put forward legislative proposals abolishing the possibility of setting up private care schemes and receiving subsidies for private care. Specifically, the Enhedslisten, with its proposal, wishes to repeal the current Chapters 14 and 15 of the Daily Offers Act. And the party states in its observations that a change to the law must have a forward-looking effect. This means that private care systems already in place will be able to continue during an undefined transitional period. The unit list shall state the reasons, inter alia: The proposal states that private care is not subject to the same requirements as day-to-day care and that the increasing number of private care services restricts the management possibilities of municipalities. I can say that the government sees this as rather different. For the government, it is important that there is a high degree of freedom of choice in the day-to-day provision area; that parents should experience flexibility and choice when finding care for their child. And that is why it is also important that there is a diversity of offers in this area. The basic thing about free choice is that you have the option of choosing something other than what you are offered if, for various reasons, you need a different solution • a solution that suits your family better. Parents often place emphasis on different things when choosing one offer rather than another. Some parents attach great importance to the fact that the offer is close to home, while others stress that it is close to the parents' workplace. Some stress that there are extended opening hours. For others, it is more important that the offer has a special profile... it can be focused on outdoor life, body and movement, an athletic children's garden, a focus on music or something else entirely. That is why it is also positive, we in the government think, that today there are a number of different options for finding a place for your little child, for example. it is possible to point out to the institution that you as a parent want in your municipality and that you can also choose, as a parent, to have a place in a day offer in another municipality, a place in a private institution or subsidies for various forms of private care, if you do not want to make use of the offers to which the municipality may assign. For the government, private care schemes and private care subsidies are important elements of free choice. Private care is not the same as a day offer. There are different content requirements for day care, but for some parents, the possibility of receiving private care grants is an alternative or a supplement, which is what makes the best sense in their daily life. There may be many different reasons why parents say no to the municipality's offer of a place in a municipal or self-serving day offer and instead choose to get subsidies to hire a private fitter or pay for a place in a private care scheme. For some parents, this may be due to the fact that there is no day offer that is near the family home and that matches the wishes that you have. Others choose to receive the grant for a temporary period until they can be accommodated in a particular day-care institution in which they want their child to go. Finally, there may also be parents who have unequal working hours and who therefore need care at times outside the normal opening hours of the day offer. These are just a few examples of different families and different reasons why you need a free choice and a flexible choice. If you ask the parents who make use of the scheme, I am quite sure you can get even more examples of why they choose to use the free choice and flexibility. In essence, I do not really think that it is the individual cause that is important either. It is that each family can choose what is right for them and is right for their children. In the government we stress that parents have the opportunity to choose different offers and we respect the choices made by each parent. And basically, we believe that both freedom of choice and diversity, including in the area of children, are very important to ensure that there are also good offers for all children. At the same time, I would like to make it clear that we in the government are constantly focusing on how we can develop the day-off area. That is why we have among other things. taken the initiative to set up the Quality Forum for Day Offers, where we, together with stakeholders in the field, discuss selected topics and relevant topics on how we can develop our day offer area and how we can ensure that there is a good framework both for the play, learning and care that children should have as part of a day offer or in a care scheme. We have also launched a process of looking at the work of reviewing educational curricula and how we can strengthen educational curricula, so that we also make sure that all children are challenged more effectively, be it linguistic, be it motoristic, be it in connection with the whole emotional part of learning as well as some of the other areas. We know that there is a need for children to be seen, challenged, developed in their respective areas, and that no children are overlooked in this context, and certainly not that there are children from homes where parents may not be as resourceful as they are overlooked because they do not have the right focus on it. That is why we cannot support the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution either. We cannot do this because we tax free choice in the area of day-to-day services; because there must be a variety of offers so that parents can choose what suits their child. And private care subsidies are an important element of free choice and are a good alternative for a number of parents.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419233344	Thank you. There is one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Jakob Silver Mound. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419233348	I fully agree with the Minister that diversity in the area of day-to-day offers is a good thing. I also think that there is a wealth of diversity. What I think is central is whether we should set quality requirements for the diversity that must be. I really think that is relevant, because free elections are conditional on public funds being put into it. Otherwise, there wouldn't be much free choice, and then we know what the price would be. That is why I would like to ask the Minister: is it not important that, when we want to have a variety of child care services, there are also quality requirements? And does the Minister find it reassuring that private carers are not covered by the quality requirements contained in Chapter 2 of the Daily Offers Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419233443	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419233446	I think it has to be said that if someone makes quality demands, then it is the parents. They make a great deal of demands on the quality of the offer they choose for their child. This is also the reason for some parents to choose a different offer from what the municipality immediately makes available. Therefore, it is important to look at the role played by parents in ensuring that there is a focus on the fact that the offers there are also meet their needs. But basically I just do not agree with Enhedslisten's rapporteur that making quality requirements means making the same requirements for everyone. In fact, I think it makes sense to have day-to-day legislation and to have some other services, for example. private individuals, where a qualitative framework is also required and where there are also different types of supervision, but where it is not necessarily the case that the same rules apply in the whole area. This is one of the things that helps to support diversity and thus also the choice for parents.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419233548	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419233552	I agree that parents' choices regulate a lot. Well, there are hardly many of us who would be willing to deliver our children somewhere where we thought that they were feeling really bad. I fully agree with the Minister on this point. However, it could be said that from that point of view we did not have to regulate the area at all, because if we had a belief that that was enough in itself, then there was thus no reason to have any further legislation. Then you could just have the payment systems fixed and then you could leave the rest to the good judgment of the parents, but we did not do that. So I would like to ask the Minister: what is it particularly important that, when children are taken care of all alone in your own home, there should not be any special requirements for quality, while legislation for example. private day-care institutions are designed to meet exactly the same quality requirements as elsewhere?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419233642	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419233645	As I also said in my speech, I think it is important to regularly discuss how to strengthen quality, including how to improve the quality of private services. This just does not mean that I necessarily believe that it should then be the same legislation that applies in all areas. I guess that's where we separate from each other. Then I just took the liberty of saying in my previous reply that parents also make demands and that this is an important factor, also in ensuring that for the waiter or nurse who is working at odds, there are also some offers that are flexible for their very family, without compromising the quality of the offers made to children.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419233726	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Bendixen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419233731	Thank you very much. And thank you to the Minister. After all, it is difficult to disagree with the Minister on what the Minister says. I think we all agree on that. When the Minister says that there must be free choice and that it is the parents' free choice, that is fine, but can the Minister not be concerned that there may be some children who may not get the right help? If there is now some concern about a child, one might imagine that the private person fits, which is quite dependent on the income that comes, does not report such a child to the municipality and that the child thus does not receive the help to which the child is actually entitled. It was just an example.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419233808	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419233811	That is also why I mentioned that there has to be a guarantee that supervision is strong enough to be able to detect precisely where there are problems. Just as we are reviewing educational curricula, it is also natural that we should discuss how we can then ensure that we also use the quality assurance on which we base the daily offers to be inspired by how we can generally improve the quality of our offers to children. However, a master group has been set up in connection with the work initiated with the teaching curriculum. with representatives from everything from BUPL and FOA to a number of actors in this area, and I would also like to wait for their recommendations in relation to further work. I think that provides a qualified basis for the discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419233852	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419233855	Well, of course it makes sense to wait for such a job. But I still have some concerns. And another thing is this: we don't have to make the same demands on everyone. No, you might say not to, but let me give you another example. Well, being a lifeguard, being able to save lives is kind of a legal requirement for example. The day care, but it's not like it's in the private house. And then you might ask why the children who are in a private care should not have the same life-saving help as all other children are offered.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419233932	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419233934	Well, basically we need to ensure that there is a high quality in all the offers that are for children, but we should not overlook the fact that parents also help ensure that there is a quality. Because, as Enhedslisten's rapporteur also said, there are no parents who deliver their children in a place where you doubt that there is the care that is needed for children and that there is a quality in the offer. We must then keep going, and I think I have indicated this in several rounds, and also politically discuss the regulatory framework that underpins the quality of supervision as well as legislation in this area. And I am quite sure we will have ample opportunity to discuss this when the master group makes its recommendations.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419234018	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the Minister. And then we start with the rapporteur's line. The first rapporteur is from the Socialists, Mr President. Erik Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419234034	We must consider the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution on abolishing the possibility of establishing private services. So, first of all, I would like to praise Enhedslisten for putting private care arrangements on the parliamentary agenda. In the social democracy we want there to be security about the everyday lives of families with children. This is a prerequisite for the functioning of our society, where both mother and father go to work. It is therefore also crucial that we have good care opportunities when children are young. However, we do not want to interfere in how individual families organise their lives. On the other hand, we are working to ensure that families have the best opportunities for their everyday lives and that children are provided with high educational quality care facilities. We cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution tabled by the Enhedslisten on abolishing the possibility of establishing private services. Because that will limit the opportunities that families have today, and we cannot support that. In the social democracy we actually want to go another way. We want to change the day offer law so that private people also have to work with educational curricula and have to live up to the day offer law's specific purpose for day offers. That is why, in fact, in our children's package, when we were in government, we also gave priority to that, among other things. should be provided with more educational staff, a better physical framework for the provision of services and that the well-being, learning and development of all children should be supported thereby. In fact, particularly relevant to today's debate, the children's package also included more substantive requirements for enhanced supervision of private care systems. The package included: It is also up to private carers to work with apprenticeship plans and to meet the day-to-day purpose of the day-to-day provision law. Unfortunately, after the parliamentary elections, the government has decided to cancel the children's package. We are, of course, very sorry about this, because we believe that there is a need for an increase in the area, including in the case of private offers. And instead of restricting opportunities for families with children in the country, we want to ensure that the current provision of local and private care is as high as possible. That is why, on the basis of the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution in connection with the work of the committee, we in fact want to propose a consultation focusing on the quality of private services. And we hope that there will be support for such a hearing. With such consultation, we want, among other things. to clarify the extent and trends and the geographical differences in relation to private care systems. Hopefully this will also help to get the government going in the area of family policy where there has been, we have to say disturbingly quietly. And I hope that with such a hearing we could initiate a debate on a boost to the whole area of childcare. In the social democracy we are fighting for all children to have equal opportunities, and combating negative social heritage is heartblood to us. Our provision of care and education is essential for success. We will therefore continue to work to ensure that families with children have the best possible framework for making family life and working life coherent. However, as I said, on the basis of the reasons I have given today, we cannot support the proposal. Finally, I should like to welcome the Radicals and say that they cannot support the proposal either, but support a hearing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419234354	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jakob Silver Mound. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419234359	In other words, I think it is a good thing that the rapporteur says that the emphasis is on changing the quality requirements. I can only think of the knowledge I now have about the area: what is the real difference between the current municipal day care and the private care arrangements if you have to meet exactly the same requirements? So isn't the difference just the conditions that employees have? Is the rapporteur not concerned that work in municipal day care is now being replaced by self-employed workers who are not entitled to a fixed wage, are not entitled to a wage during illness and are not entitled to a pension? I do not want to say that this is as serious a problem as the quality of the children first, but is it not a serious problem that there is social dumping in this way?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419234457	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419234500	As I said, it is important to us that there is a guarantee that there is as high a quality as possible, including in the private care system, and that there is the supervision that needs to be. In relation to what I can also read in the proposal, the fact that people are nervous about social dumping, I would say that I am quite sure that price and quality are linked. And as Enhedslisten's rapporteur himself has said in the past, it is of course the case that as parents you do not want to choose that offer of the worst quality, but actually go for the best offer in relation to what you want as parents.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419234533	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419234535	If you strike a blow off the main road and drive onto the small roads, you see signs of private childcare that are cheaper. If you go online, you can see that private childcare is located in many places 700-800 DKK. lower than municipal childcare. Is it not an unfortunate situation to have price dumping in this way in relation to municipal day care, and that whoever pays the price is the independent trader who, in order to obtain customers, has to give up part of his income?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419234613	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419234615	However, I hope that the Enhedslisten's rapporteur also agrees that if we actually follow up on what we emphasised in the children's package, namely that there will be increased supervision and that there will also be demands for teaching plans and for the quality of day care, then it will be much harder to compete on the price. The reality will be that what we're going to see is that some of these private people are coming, precisely because the municipalities are shutting down either day care or municipal day care. And then this comes up where the parents want you to get care close to home.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419234649	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and move on to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. It's Mrs. Pernille Bendixen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419234658	Thank you very much. First of all, thank you very much to the Enhedslisten for making this proposal. As Enhedslisten really has, there are some very important issues that we in the Danish People's Party would like to look at. Nevertheless, we cannot support the proposal, and I would just like to explain that. But first of all I would say that it is quite correct when Enhedslisten argues that private people should not have to meet the same training requirements and not have the same supervision as municipal day carers do. That's a problem. Although the municipalities have the duty of supervision, it is sometimes, and not rarely, reduced to an annual visit, which is primarily about looking at the physical framework. In this way, private individuals are cut off from getting sparring and help from the educator, such as: municipal day care providers will receive if concerns arise. And, of course, this is a risk that we will not be able to know for sure whether the private person will call for help if the private person has a child who gives cause for concern. Given that the private fit is incredibly dependent on any customer in the store, there is therefore a likelihood that the concern for a child will not be passed on to those people who could otherwise put in with the right help, because there may be a fear and uncertainty of losing one of these customers in the store. Conversely, there is also a great risk that the municipality will not give priority to getting out to the private fit if it has a child of concern. We simply cannot be familiar with this. Concern children need help, regardless of what offers they are then in, and the conditions under which private people pass must be looked at. To compete on price and special offers and special opening hours provides a very unsatisfactory working environment. And then there's all the pressure on the parents' demands. How can one say from being at work to, for example, being at work? 8:00 p.m. 8 in the evening, because it may be that the customer is gone the next day? It is also quite true that there has been a strong increase in the number of private passes. The reason for this is the national massacre that has taken place against municipal day care providers. In two municipalities, day care has been completely closed, while in 17 out of the country's 98 municipalities it has been cut by 60%. or more. The municipalities justify these cuts by giving priority to high quality care. It must therefore be read in such a way that it is crèches that are of high quality, and from this one must also read that municipal day care is a low-quality offer. However, it is in stark contrast to the sharp increase in the number of private passes, which should not meet the requirements of the law for quality, and they are also abandoned by the same municipalities who are crying out for quality offers. With the erosion that has taken place and continues to occur, we in the Danish People's Party have a serious concern about the survival of municipal day care. We want to prioritise municipal day care as a care provision, but we also want a priority to be given to private care. And we appreciate, as the Minister also says, that there are these options. That is why we have no desire for crèches to be the only offer for the care of the smallest children. That the municipalities have the opportunity to hire a private day care provider, we have no faith in it. There is absolutely no indication that the municipalities give priority to day care, either private or municipal. With the Enhedslisten's proposal, we therefore fear that we will wipe out everything that is called day care at all, and for us to see it as a very wrong way to go. We therefore expect the Minister to take the initiative to look at the private passes so that conditions can be arranged both for them and for our children. For us, it is not alone that parents have the free choice, because politically we have the overall responsibility. We must be able to face up to that responsibility, even when things go wrong, and then we cannot say that the parents just have to take care of themselves and that it was their choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419235059	Thank you. There is one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Jakob Silver Mound. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419235103	I think the rapporteur made a very good point about referring children. If a day care provider observes that a child may need another offer, there may be a restraint. So I would like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that if a child and the child in question are no longer to be reported as a private child-career, then 25% will be lost. of his income. Can't you confirm that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419235144	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419235147	I can confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419235150	Sir. Jakob Silver mound, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419235153	We are then in agreement on this, and I think it is very unfortunate that in this way we have an economic incentive to refrain from reporting. I am not saying that this is often the case, but the danger is considerable. I want to ask you something else. The rapporteur knows the day care area very well, I know. After all, we have seen that in a municipality such as Elsinore the municipal day care has been completely abolished, so that the only care provided in private homes is now with private carers without the quality requirements that exist in the law. Is the rapporteur not concerned that this might happen in a number of other municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419235227	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419235230	Yes, we are very concerned about that, because there is no indication that things are going the other way. There are very many municipalities that continue to downgrade day care. The only reason why the private care system is not also downgraded is that they have a legal requirement for recruitment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419235246	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and then we go to the rapporteur of the Left. It's Mrs. Anni Matthiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419235256	Thank you. In the context of this evening's discussion of B-83 on the proposal for a Parliament resolution on the abolition of the possibility of setting up private services, the Left will vote against the proposal in question. In the Left, we have the fundamental view that the free choice of citizens, including, of course, the free choice of parents and families, is actually helping to increase the value of these families. In this way, they can help to make the choice that may be best suited to their needs. Our welfare system should not be put together in a way that actually places citizens or families in a sort of straitjacket, and where there is no freedom of action or, for that matter, no option is to be able to decide for themselves what suits the family best. In view of this, we in the Left appreciate the fact that there are also private offers in relation to a wide range of welfare tasks. This ensures that there is freedom of choice for the individual citizen and that you can choose between different options. In Denmark, at least in most places around the country, we have very good experiences with private care systems. As you know, families are different and need different options. Families can choose with private care what is best suited to their child; whether they want to use the public or whether they want to use the private services. There may be many different reasons for this, as has also been mentioned earlier this evening. I can say that in my own family we have made use of public, but also private, care facilities when our children were young. And in some of the years we simply needed private care because we needed more and more flexible care times. It can be said that we would have been considerably worse off if the Enhedslisten's proposal had been implemented at the time. Private care services therefore provide greater freedom for families with children, which I also think is important to safeguard. I must also say that, in addition to what I mentioned myself, and as I have experienced myself, there may be other reasons why there are families who choose a private solution. I mean, that's one way of doing that. also be the distance. In some rural areas there may be a long distance from the nearest public offer and there may be a private offer closer to it. I would also like to make a comment on the fact that we, the Left Government, have maintained the funding, in other words the promise in the area of children. The previous government had almost four years to present this children's package, which was, after all, unfunded at the end of the day. And then I would actually like to finish by commending DF, in relation to the concern you have about supervision itself, and I would say that I share it a long way along the way. All in all, however, we have to say that we in the Left are looking after the free elections and that is why we cannot vote in favour of this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419235641	We thank the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419235647	After all, we have a fairly detailed description of the content requirements for our daily offers, which include: The emphasis is on the fact that the day offers work on the basis of educational curricula. I would like to hear from the rapporteur: is it appropriate for us to have written the curricula in this way as something that must be worked on in day-to-day offers?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419235716	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419235717	Yeah, I think it's a long way along the way. However, I would also like to stress at the same time that I think it is important that we continue to give the freedom in private care to parents, who, after all, I believe are the ones who know best about the needs of their own children, who can make these choices about what kind of care they think is the best.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419235743	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419235747	If that is the case, what does the rapporteur think about private day-care institutions? Is it really an expression of over-regulation in legislation that this is not the case there? Because if you run a private daycare institution it may be parents who join forces and choose to create such a • then you are exactly obliged to work according to the teaching curriculum. Is this an expression of the fact that the private day-care institutions really have over-regulation?
ParlaMint-DK_20160419235814	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419235815	No, I don't think so. I actually believe that freedom still exists. I think it is quite reasonable, both that there is some kind of supervision and, for that matter, that there are some educational curricula to be met. At the same time, however, I think that we should also be careful not to interfere too much on the part of Christiansborg when it comes to private solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419235839	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419235843	Thank you very much. It is true that a large proportion of parents are first-time parents, and being a first-time mother involves a great deal of frustration and uncertainty. It does not take much until you are worried about your child and about the child's development, and this raises a great deal of questions, I should just say, to those who take care of the child every day. Now the Left is talking a lot about this free choice thing, and that it's the parents who are the best at assessing, and that's what it is. But can the rapporteur not recognise that there is sometimes a need for a professional to help guide and guide these parents? And if we do not make those demands politically, anyone can take care of those children and maybe not have the right skills for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160419235935	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420235937	Yes, I would like to acknowledge that in some contexts one may be in a situation, among other things. as first-time parents, where you need guidance. But I also think that we still have a good system here in Denmark, where you also have the opportunity to seek help for that matter with the health care provider, etc., if there is something you are in doubt about. I just really do not want to go as far as Enhedslisten proposes, namely that they will not give the opportunity to have these private solutions. I think it is essential to have flexible care facilities, and I still think it is essential that private solutions can be chosen for that too. Because in some contexts, which I am also aware of, it may in fact be the private solutions that have a higher quality than the public ones.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420000026	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420000028	Yeah, that's right. And it shouldn't sound as if private care is something terrible, but it's just that a large part of the municipalities have downgraded private care to a degree, so the only contact that private people have with the municipality is an annual supervision of the physical environment. This means that when private passes actually have some real concerns, they do not actually get the help and sparring they need. Could the rapporteur not agree that we cannot offer this to people who work with our children?
ParlaMint-DK_20160420000100	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420000102	As the Minister also mentioned, a master group has been set up to look at this area. And I am sure that we will discuss this at a later stage. I just still have to hold on to the fact that, at least in the 19 years I have worked with the whole child and care area, I have seen more examples of the fact that private passes have actually delivered a higher quality than public services, even if they had additional and additional requirements for public services.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420000138	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420000147	Thank you. First of all, I would like to say that children are different and families are different. And in the Liberal Alliance we want to extend the freedom of children's families to choose exactly the form of care that is right for them and meets the different needs of the different families. We want a varied range of options so that more of the increasingly nuanced needs can be met. We want the money to follow the child and we want less regulation. This is among other things. That is why we have proposed the introduction of a so-called passport. The passport must be given to parents who are then free to redeem it either in private or in public care. Instead of creating barriers to private care, municipalities should give a full overview of key figures such as sick leave and standards in individual institutions, and at the same time parents wishing to take care of their very young children at home should also be given the opportunity to do so. In the Liberal Alliance, we believe that parents are the ones who know best what is good for their children. B 83, which we are dealing with here at the moment, is an expression of exactly the opposite thinking. It is the expression of a statement and a unification. The very few private care services we have in Denmark generally experience, as far as I know, a great deal of satisfaction and also often spend more resources on children and fewer on administration than the public services do. However, these few model breakers, as one might call the private institutions and services which show us the way forward towards a less burdensome and more flexible system, must therefore be banned, according to the Enhedslisten, before they really put their roots. I was very pleased to see at their national meeting this weekend that the SF was talking about less government administration, perhaps even increased freedom and perhaps even a desire to look a little like the Liberal Alliance. The Enhedslisten seems to be heading in exactly the opposite direction, demanding that all families of children should submit to government administration. Apparently, the Enhedslisten knows what is best for the children, even better than even the children's own parents. For the Liberal Alliance, the proposal here represents a very boring approach to the right of free and independent citizens to be masters of their own lives, and we cannot, of course, support the proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420000500	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Bendixen, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420000505	Thank you very much. I took a little notice of the evidence the rapporteur was talking about. I actually didn't quite understand what you meant by proof, but there was something about you having to do with sick absence, and then the parents could judge from it whether they thought it was a good offer. And then I just want to know if the rapporteur is aware that a private carer, when this sick person enters, has no one to step in and look after the child, so parents have to do it themselves. This means that every time the private carer is ill, the parents must have a sick day, and we know how the parents feel about it. So I just want to know if the rapporteur thinks it is fair that sick leave should then be decisive, because many of these private passes will choose to go to work no matter how sick they are. Otherwise, they simply lose a large proportion of their income quite quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420000559	I would just like to draw the attention of the honourable Member to the fact that we are not using direct indictments in this Chamber. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420000606	In relation to sick leave in private care, I must say that I am aware that there will then not necessarily be a replacement. And this will be a choice made by parents when they have chosen the private care provision. I think it is a very relevant information to have as a parent when choosing a day care centre that we also know what the absence of sick people in the particular institution is. So it's kind of just an information for the citizen in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420000638	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420000641	Okay, so let me try asking another question. The rapporteur thinks that it is fair working conditions, for example. Does it believe that working hours range from 7 to 15 and that there is then suddenly a requirement for extra care 4 hours on Friday afternoon, where you cannot say away for fear of losing your job basis? Is it reasonable to have working conditions?
ParlaMint-DK_20160420000705	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420000705-2	In such a specific situation, it would be an agreement between the employer and the worker, and in this particular case the parents of the children and the person who cares for the children.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420000719	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420000730	Thank you. In this motion for a resolution, the Enhedslisten proposes that we abolish private services. The Enhedslisten identifies some challenges in these care systems, including: In relation to the fact that there are not the same requirements for the quality of teaching work, and also that there are apparently some gaps, one might say, in the Danish model in relation to agreements. This is some of the disease and rights issues of disease and social dumping, as Enhedslisten also points out. There, Enhedslisten then proposes that the consequences of this are that we prohibit or abolish private care systems. We fully recognise that there are certainly some challenges to be solved, but we very much disagree with Enhedslisten that the solution would then be the abolition of private services. The fact that we are in the Alternative is perhaps a very good example of the fact that in the Alternative we differ from Enhedslisten it is at least one of the places where we do it. We are sometimes asked: Well, don't you always vote the same as Enhedslisten? We don't, and this is a really good example. We have such a slogan: smaller state and more society. We are very much celebrating the private alternative models of care, it could also be care for the elderly, it could be anything else, which is precisely alternatives to what we have under state auspices. We do this because they solve some challenges and they provide some other answers to some of the questions that are being asked in society. There I think the Minister is right when he says in his speech that the private care systems solve a need, such as: can be very local. After all, we see the municipal institutions unite and become large and centered in the larger cities, which has consequences for the local areas. There the private care can go in and be an offer for those families of children who suddenly do not have to drive so far to get their children cared for. It may also be some other needs that are being met. It may be needed in relation to some close relationships, it is care opportunities in small places that some children need. Actually, we're really, really happy about that. We are very pleased that these things also come from the local environment, that they grow out of the local environment; that is something we celebrate in the alternative. So we would think it was really, really a pity if we put down the private services. So you can say, "Well, are there any challenges about them?" I'm sure there is. But then I think we should address those challenges instead of abolishing the care systems. And we would like to be a part of that if we are to be involved in answering some of those questions in a different context. Now the Minister has said that there is a working group that will produce a report, and we would very much like to look at that. The Socialists have called for a hearing, and we very much support that. However, we would like to start there so that we do not support this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420001025	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420001031	Yes, it is true that we often vote the same way, but it cannot always be. I share the rapporteur's views in many ways in terms of diversity, as others have also mentioned, but I would like to give an example and see if the rapporteur does not find this problematic. A person seeks employment in the municipal day care, but is told that she does not have the qualifications to solve the educational tasks. She walks out the door, knocks and comes back in and says: Hello, can I be approved as a private child care provider? Then it is necessary to approve the person concerned, who will then be responsible for caring for children for public funds, which she could not do in relation to the quality requirements set by the municipality. Isn't that a real problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20160420001119	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420001121	I think the interesting thing here would actually be to ask what kind of qualifications she had been convicted of in the first place. Because I kind of agree with the Minister who says that in principle we could easily set up the same rules for everyone, but I think we would then have a rather boring society, and I think it would also be a little bit rich. For suddenly there is a great deal of documentation and quality control, etc., to which everyone must live up to. One can of course say that we have to live up to some basic parameters. I also think that private caring services should be taken care that we do not drown in bureaucracy in relation to this, and when it is so small, I think that there is also a greater awareness of whether things are being done properly. I do not think that parents should bear the responsibility alone, as some have said, because of course we should also be involved in this as a state and a society. But I agree that we must be careful that we do not set up the same rules for everyone and that we must also be careful that we do not make something of a problem if it is not.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420001219	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420001222	After all, the rapporteur and I have been together today for a consultation and discussed the requirements for school provision for refugee children, and I sensed that we were agreed there that it might be problematic if a municipality, by not applying the primary school law, were to be able to avoid imposing qualification requirements on those who have to teach. Does the rapporteur not think that there can be the same logic here? If we think it is really important that qualifications are required for those who teach our children in primary school, is it necessarily a sign of square bureaucracy to have similar expectations that there should be quality in childcare?
ParlaMint-DK_20160420001305	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420001306	In any case, I think that there are differences between these two areas, and I would like to make that clear. Because I also think that we need to deal specifically with the various areas and the various challenges we face. I fully agree with the rapporteur with regard to the primary school law and the refugee children, and the rapporteur knows that too, but I simply do not agree with this. Because I think we are in the process of problematizing a parameter that we very much appreciate. We want to help solve the local or concrete problems that exist, but not by abolishing a system that actually works very well for many families with children.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420001338	Then it is Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420001341	Thank you very much. The rapporteur spends some time telling us what is good about the private pass, and there is much good, and they can do something other than others can, and so far, as well. But the private pass should also be offered to some extent the help and sparring of what can be said • the upper authority, which is of course us. So somewhere we must also, I think, and I hope the rapporteur agrees with that part.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420001412	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420001413	I fully agree with that. And it's actually come to my attention tonight or tonight, I was about to say that there, for example. is not a requirement for first aid for these private passes. I wasn't aware of that, and that's one of the things I'm thinking there really should be. So we would very much like to be involved in going in there and looking at what these are for some areas where we should make more demands.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420001436	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420001438	A number of people have pointed out here that the private care system is, after all, an agreement between the private carer and the parents, and peace be with it. We are not interfering in that, and there can be a great deal of truth in it. But there is enormous pressure on the private person, and this is the pressure on one's opening hours, the pressure on one's not to take a holiday, the pressure on one's not to report ill when one's really sick, are some factors we would otherwise not accept. And I don't understand why you have to accept it exactly in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420001515	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420001516	I don't think you should. Again, I do not think that this means that we should abolish the services, but then we have to solve the problems in relation to the agreements, and here we move on to a completely different policy area in relation to the Danish model and the agreements. But, of course, I think that we should also address that challenge.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420001533	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420001551	Thank you. Since the SF rapporteur in this area, Jacob Mark, could not be present, I have promised to give the speech. I'm not as good in the area as Jacob Mark, but that should of course not stop anyone from asking questions. Then I would also like to thank both the Liberal Alliance and the Alternative for reminding me of the liberal roots of the SF. It was Anne Baastrup who introduced this concept in her excellent writing in the 1980s...Minner state... more community... and that was also one of the reasons why I joined the SF, and it will actually also infect some of the things I want to say here. Because despite the great challenges in this area and those we in the SF would like to recognise, and we would also like to support the Social Democrats' initiative for a hearing, and we would also very much like to support the Enhedslisten's focus on the need to tighten up on this area, so we think it is to throw out the baby with the bathing water to completely abolish these schemes. Personally, I have an aunt and also a good friend who has been private day care providers for many years, and I think there is an enormous difference between how the individual experiences any pressure or whether you do it at all. We believe from the SF that these are some relevant areas on which Enhedslisten focuses, and that there is clearly a need for a better framework and for better supervision, but basically we do not believe that private care in itself is evil. So we would very much like to take a look at how we can tighten up, and we would like to add votes to another, a revised, proposal of this in relation to going in specifically and saying where to take action, but we cannot therefore support what the proposal is today. We think it can be fine if it works under the right conditions and conditions • with private care.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420001810	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Bendixen, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420001815	Thank you. I now ask the question, and we shall see if the rapporteur can answer that question. I have often heard SF come up with this talk that it has to be a high-quality offer and that it has to be trained staff who care for our children, and that is why the sentences are the reason for firing the day care workers, because you would rather have the children in the day care room, where the staff are trained, but how does this fit in with the fact that you do not support the Enhedslisten's proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20160420001848	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420001851	If you as parents live in a place where it is possible to get trained staff and if you put a lot of emphasis on that being what it takes to ensure your child the best possible development and if you live in a place where you get that offer I think there are many who will choose it. But there are also many places where it is not possible or where you want private care or where you want it until you can get an institution seat. I don't think we should take that opportunity from the parents. But it is quite true that when the children are very young and need to be cared for, this is the best place to go, if in some respects you want it to be more professional care, which is under local authority. We can just see it, for example. very much here in Copenhagen that there is an incredibly big problem and that many choose private care until they can get an institution space.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420001958	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420002000	Thank you very much. So for this small state and more society, and there I am not sure if the rapporteur is thinking about this educational curriculum, but it is clear that there is a need for documentation when it comes to drawing up educational curricula, and it takes a while, especially when you are new to it. But can the rapporteur recognise that educational curricula also help to develop the care provision that you want and to improve quality?
ParlaMint-DK_20160420002028	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420002030	Now I want to be quite honest and say that I have simply not worked enough with the children's area to be inside this. Of course, it is not quite fair when the rapporteur has the right to ask these questions, but I hope that the rapporteur can take it with my colleague.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420002046	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420002101	Thank you. I am also here on behalf of my colleague, Mrs Mai Mercado, who is the rapporteur in this area, but who unfortunately cannot be present in the Chamber today. In the Conservative People's Party, we cannot support the Enhedslisten's proposal. Firstly, we consider it important that parents choose their own care services for their children. The more free choice the parents have, the better it is in our optics, and the more satisfaction grows typically. As parents, you feel that you get codecision, and it's a nice feeling and certainty to have as parents. It is also nice that there are different types of care provision. Do you want a day care provider who has a small community with few children, or do you want to send your child to a crèche? Once that choice has been made, you must also make up your mind whether you want a private offer or whether you want a public offer. As parents, you decide for yourself what are the advantages and disadvantages, and what one parent finds beneficial to his or her child, others can judge as a disadvantage to his or her child, because children are different. That is why we do not want to restrict the private services; on the contrary, we want to extend them. We want all municipalities to be required to enable one of the parents or a best parent to receive subsidies so that the child can be cared for privately. Giving one of the parents the opportunity to go home is good and modern family policy. The same is the possibility that a grandparent can take care of the child. It binds the generations even closer together. Today, this is an offer to parents in a number of municipalities, but there are differences between municipalities. Today it is not possible to use financial free space allowances for private childcare, but we want that to change. As Enhedslisten and others in the Chamber have probably understood, we do not want to restrict private childcare, but rather to extend the opportunities for private childcare so that parents have even more choice for their children than they do today, because it must be the parents who are best at assessing what is in the children's interest. So in these words we reject this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420002307	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Bendixen, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420002312	It's about this expanding private care offers. The rapporteur spends a lot of time talking about free elections, and we would like to support that, and there may be even more free choice, but it is the case that today a municipality can choose to offer parents the opportunity to go home and look after their children. As I hear the rapporteur, the municipalities will be forced to introduce that system. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20160420002336	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420002338	It is well understood that we find it difficult to see why there should be differences between municipalities, whether citizens are entitled to this offer. So yes, we would like there to be more uniform rules, and we would also like it to apply to grandparents.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420002350	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420002353	But then I also have to understand that the rapporteur does not recognise municipal autonomy and the free choice of municipalities. Is that correct, too?
ParlaMint-DK_20160420002402	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420002404	That is not correct. There are plenty of areas today where you regulate. It has not been long since we dealt with a resolution in this Chamber that I also believe supported by the Danish People's Party, I am 99%. sure of the fact that the municipalities were forced to list the processing times on their website. It was also accused of being a breach of municipal autonomy. So I guess that's an argument that's drawn forward from time to time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420002430	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr von der Vring. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420002438	Thank you. I think it is paradoxical that, for a long time, we have experienced two, so to speak, opposing trends when we are talking about the area of children. One trend is that you are very concerned about how we can detail the area on all heads and edges. Not only are we concerned with the large framework, but we want to regulate how the educational work is to be carried out, if not in the smallest detail, but rather in detail and well described in the legislation. And the other trend is to say that we can also run day-to-day offers where there is no regulation at all. I think it is running somewhat together and I think that there is a tendency for not all the rapporteurs who have spoken, but I hear it in some places that the same people who think it is really important that we have an extremely detailed management of how to work pedagogically in some day-to-day services, at the same time have the impression that we can also operate something where there are no real demands. I find this extremely contradictory, and that is what we in the Enhedslist have wanted to challenge with this proposal. We find it extremely problematic that when the public pays about three quarters of the cost of private carers, it is such that quality requirements are not imposed on the area. We do not dispute that parents should be able to choose between a variety of day-to-day services, but we think it is very strange that public crowns should be able to operate care services that do not meet the general educational quality requirements, which we also put forward where our smallest children are taken care of. At the same time, we find it strange that public crowns can be used for one of the most glaring examples of social dumping that we are experiencing in our labour market at all. We have a labour market where the private child care provider is paid according to the number of children. If at present there are only two children, she only gets half the salary. If she gets sick, she doesn't get paid during illness. If she would like to save up for her retirement, she will certainly have to set up a pension scheme herself, because there is no pension scheme whatsoever because she is self-employed. So we move work which has so far been carried out in a quality framework laid down in the legislation and which has been carried out under general contractual conditions to an area where there are no quality requirements and where there are no fixed pay and working conditions. Is it so that we in the Enhedslist are insanely critical of those who are private child carers? No, we're not. We fully understand that there are many who choose it if, for one reason or another, they have had to give up working as municipal day carers. They may have been terminated. We have full respect for the fact that there are people who say: then I must try, even if I no longer have a fixed salary; and although I am no longer paid during illness, it is better than going free. We understand that many do. So the criticism is not directed at the individual private child care provider, but the criticism is directed at legislation in which we pay, through public funds, for the poor quality of care and where we pay for social dumping in this area. That has been my impression, and I think I have seen it before, that I hear a number of arguments that are directed at something that we have not proposed. This is not a proposal that you should not make private day-to-day offers. According to this proposal, private day care institutions can be so well run, private day care is regulated according to a number of other provisions of the legislation. However, with this proposal you cannot have a competitive private offer which, unlike private day care and private institutions, does not have to meet quality requirements and which exposes people to social dumping. Having said that, I am glad that many or most people think that there is something to discuss here. I think there is, too. I would like to say that the proposal that we should have a hearing is, in my view, a fine one, according to the circumstances. I am actually thinking that the Folketing might be ready to take a decision, but I can hear that this matter needs to be clarified, and I think that there will be an understanding of many of the views that I have put forward and which form the basis of this proposal. I think that if we have them thoroughly uncovered in a hearing too, there will be many who, like the Enhedslisten, say that it is probably a problem that we have arrangements for the provision of public funds, where there are no educational quality requirements, and that perhaps it is not so good that we have established a system in which social dumping says sparto to the king of diamonds, in relation to what else we know of social dumping schemes. So I think it is a good thing that we are being prepared to continue the debate, and I must say, as it appears, that I will certainly support in the work of the committee that, when we are unable to proceed as quickly as we hoped in the Enhedslisten, we are discussing it thoroughly together, including hopefully having a hearing where we can all, including undoubtedly the rapporteur for the proposers, learn more about how this area works and how we may nevertheless reach an agreement to regulate, if not quite as we have proposed it, but at least go some way along the way. So I look forward to the further debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420003034	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first is from Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420003042	Thank you very much. Can the rapporteur mention just one area if we disregard the private pass, where there is a legal requirement to be employed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420003053	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420003055	No, not what I can think of. I think that the questioner is right to say that we have a particular peculiarity in the labour market here, namely that we can simply turn to it and then the public is obliged to pay three-quarters of one's income. This is probably the only area I know very well.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420003119	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420003121	Thank you. Can the rapporteur also confirm that private carers have this legal requirement, but that there is a difference between private carers and private day carers?
ParlaMint-DK_20160420003133	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420003134	Yes, I can confirm that. After all, private day care is regulated elsewhere in the legislation, and it has not been in existence for a very long time. I mean, first, we got the law clause on private day care here two or three years ago, something like that. But it is characterised by the need for an agreement. The municipal council must approve that private day carers are now employed, and then they can be regulated by general contractual rules. If there is a company that wants to run private day care, then they can do so, and then the union that is now organizing the day care services I know it very well, by the way, try to draw an agreement in the area. But these are two very different arrangements.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420003217	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420003221	Thank you. Now it sounded like the rapporteur's speech, as if it were all pure sugar, so I would like to ask a few questions about it. Can the rapporteur not confirm that the Enhedslisten resolution that we are discussing here will limit the possibility for families to be able to make a choice for themselves about the way in which they want their child to be cared for?
ParlaMint-DK_20160420003247	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420003248	Yes, it will limit it in the same way as if you were going out to pick a school for your child. Then there is legislation which regulates the quality requirements for primary school. There is legislative regulation which determines the quality requirements for free school. In this area, there is, of course, the special feature of legislation that has excluded the private child care area from the quality requirements. It is true that we then restrict ourselves in such a way that we are not free to choose an area for which there are insufficient quality requirements, and that is, of course, a restriction for the individual. But we know this in many different contexts. We also make demands if people want surgery. Then you can't just knock at random places and ask for surgery. In fact, there are also some demands in our society for this, so I suppose it is not entirely unnatural.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420003343	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420003346	Now I can hear that the rapporteur actually confirms what I am thinking, i.e. that the Enhedslisten is helping to standardise, to state and to provide fewer opportunities for private individuals, and that is really what I need. At the same time, the rapporteur says that the rapporteur is not confident that parents can make these choices on behalf of their children, which is what is best for their children, but that the state, in other words the public, is better at making decisions, and that is why we want to standardise things. Is it not true that this is the way it should be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20160420003428	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420003430	Well, I think the individual parents and the individual citizens are, in this way, very clever and insightful, in terms of what is best for their lives and for the lives of their children. I have full confidence in that, and I am also in favour of it. But I think it is reasonable that we have also set up a society so that what we are doing for the community money is what we have to meet certain quality requirements. You should not be able to run a hospital according to the principle of the nails available, that is, without special quality requirements for it. One should not be able to run school without special quality requirements for it, etc. In the same way, I think that it cannot be the case that public money can run childcare without a certain level of educational quality. So, yes, the individual must have free choice, but the public must also have the opportunity to regulate what public money and community money are used for.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420003525	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is another brief comment from Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420003532	I hate to drag the debate too much longer, but I just have to ask out of curiosity. Now I have heard both the expression public money and community money. I just really wanted to hear: what kind of money is that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160420003545	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420003547	Yes, I suppose they are the ones who the questioner and I pay out of the income or the remuneration we receive. It is the taxpayers' money, and that is where we have regulated our society, so that the individual can not just pull the machine, but that it is the community, including the legislators, that determines the framework for how to use the Community's money.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420003613	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420003617	I just want to thank you for the recognition that, after all, it is the money that Danish citizens pay in taxes and that does not come from some gold tree and become community money. Thank you for that recognition, after all.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420003631	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420003632	Well, that is quite all right, and precisely because it is taxpayers who pay, I think there is some reason why the Community is also helping to determine what the demands should be when we spend taxpayers' money. And that's really just what we want with this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420003652	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. If there are no objections, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420003707	The debate is open and I give the floor to the Minister for the Environment and Food. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420003733	Thank you for that, President. I would like to thank the Enhedslisten for the six motions for resolutions that have been tabled. Nature is important to us as people and to us as communities here we share recitals with Enhedslisten. But Denmark is a small country, and the government wants a Denmark that has room for nature, for industry and for housing. This requires a clear priority for the various areas in a good balance. The government wants to find solutions where we develop a rich nature and at the same time create the basis for growth in the professions that feed on and with nature. The concern for nature and occupation must go hand in hand, and the balance between use and protection must be found in dialogue with those who use nature on a daily basis. In the government, we believe that nature and agriculture can exist side by side. It's not a question of either or. Farmers are some of our most important nature managers, and we must give them the opportunity to remain so. If we are to make a real difference to nature, we must put the natural effort where it is most relevant. Researchers point out that we can have a huge impact on biodiversity through efforts in forests. I expect action in forests to be an essential element of the future nature package. The government is already making significant efforts to improve the living conditions of animals and plants both on land and on water. I will be presenting later today at midnight, after all, the nature plans for the next 6 years of action in the particularly valuable Natura 2000 areas, where we have allocated 1.8 billion from 2016 to 2021. kr. to the bets. The plans will help to ensure and improve the conditions for internationally protected animal, plant and natural habitats in the areas up to 2021. At the same time as the food and agriculture package ensures better conditions for the agricultural industry, the government is making a targeted effort for the aquatic environment. This is happening, among other things. the restoration of watercourses and the establishment of wetlands. And I expect later this year to present river basin management plans for the period up to 2021. We also make an effort at sea when we follow up Denmark's maritime strategy from 2012. The government is therefore working across the board to ensure a balanced natural and environmental policy that helps to strengthen nature and to meet the EU and UN objectives of halting the decline in biodiversity by 2020. However, as a responsible government for the whole of Denmark, we must insist that the legislation should make room for both the farmer, the production company, the bird-watcher, the fisherman, the children's family, the groomer and everyone else who contributes to and benefits from a society in balance. That is why the government also rejects the six motions for resolutions tabled by the Enhedslisten. B 42 on natural zones: We cannot support the Enhedslisten's proposal to designate so-called natural zones. The Government considers that current protection is sufficient to ensure the right balance between use and protection. A comprehensive restructuring of the nature protection system is therefore not the most cost-effective way to create nature protection. The Government therefore wishes to maintain that Denmark's biodiversity, natural areas and wild plant and animal species are protected by the Nature Conservation Act, while the balance between land interests is covered by the Planning Act. B 43, loss of biodiversity in marine waters: the Enhedslisten's proposal will not allow a balanced use of our marine waters, because it is not enough just to protect, it is a matter of finding a balance that takes account of both the professional use of marine resources and the protection of nature, so that we also have a productive marine environment with high biodiversity in the future. I believe that we basically have the right approach at this stage. We are one of the countries in the European Union that has designated the most marine Natura 2000 sites; 18%. by the Danish sea has been designated as Natura 2000 sites. I would like to emphasise that I fully agree with the Enhedslisten that fisheries must be regulated on the basis of the whole ecosystem. It is precisely the objective of the common fisheries policy that fish stocks should reach a level that can yield maximum sustainable yield. With the food and agriculture package, the regulation of nutrients will in future be targeted at the areas where effort needs are greatest, and here the focus is balanced protection, so that we both take into account agriculture and at the same time ensure that among other things. Our marine environment is not unnecessarily burdened with nutrients. Thus, the government is already addressing many of the challenges identified by Enhedslisten, and I therefore consider that the current efforts are sufficient. B 44, loss of biodiversity in overcrowding and heaths: A number of the efforts and protection measures that Enhedslisten lists in the resolution, I believe, already exist, including extensive care for Natura 2000 sites. The heaths and excessive are protected by Article 3 of the Nature Conservation Act and a significant proportion of these are located within the designated Natura 2000 areas. This means, in practice, that the condition of the land must not be changed. More schemes already exist to create more coherent natural areas. Common to them is that they are based on dialogue and voluntaryness for the pilot owner. This is what we believe to be the best results, both for the pilot and for nature. B 45, loss of biodiversity in fresh meadows and wetlands: the Enhedslisten's proposal for a statutory mitigation requirement I see as an expression of the previous general regulatory model, where the same requirements are made independently of local conditions. It is the government's intention to use targeted regulation to focus future environmental efforts in those areas of the country where the challenges are greatest. Denmark is an agricultural country and must continue to be so, which is why the watercourses must be maintained so that they can ensure a proper derivation of water, but it must of course be done so that at the same time the environment is taken into account. All in all, the one-sided proposals of the Enhedslisten, in which the environment alone is being taken into account, will be in clear contradiction with the government's policy in the field of watercourses. B 46, loss of biodiversity on the coasts: The Government agrees that the free dynamics of the coasts are important, but does not agree with the need for more of Enhedslisten's proposed measures. Compared with several of the initiatives, the government finds that there is already the right balance today. In addition, several of the desired bets already exist. B 47, loss of biodiversity in forests: The Government agrees that forests are essential to the conservation of biodiversity and the government will take a position on forest plantings for biodiversity purposes in the nature package. The Enhedslisten's proposal does not mention where the money for biodiversity forest should come from. For me, it is essential that we allocate forest land cost-effectively so that we get the most biodiversity for the money. The Government believes that there is already a great deal of work to be done on nature and that the existing protection of the natural areas contains to a large extent the opportunities that Enhedslisten is calling for with their six motions for resolutions. We want to safeguard the Danish nature and, as has already been said, will give priority to efforts to halt the decline in biodiversity. And we are also looking at what initiatives should be included in a future nature package that can help to further enhance biodiversity. In general, we in the government believe that efforts for biodiversity must be targeted and cost-effective, and there must be a balance between nature considerations and consideration of the industry. We do not believe that the six motions for resolutions tabled by the Enhedslisten live up to that. With the nature initiatives already under way and with a natural package on the way, the government cannot therefore agree to Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution B 42 to B 47.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420004549	Thank you, Minister. There is a brief comment from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420004555	Thank you very much to the Minister for the speech. There are many things we agree on. We also agree that Denmark should also be used for nature, agriculture and housing. There is nothing in these proposals that would in any way suggest that we should convert the whole of Denmark into a natural zone. What we are proposing is to dispose of some land with the aim of creating a rich nature and biodiversity, because what is being done in the open country today is not enough. After all, we are still really, really far from achieving what we are committed to in two places in reality, both in the United Nations Convention on Biodiversity, but also under the European Union. So we have to do something in the open country. And what the researchers clearly point to is that we need more natural areas and that we need to tie them closer together. So my question to the Minister must be: if the Minister does not want to do this with natural zones, how are we going to ensure that we have more natural areas in the open country and better link nature together?
ParlaMint-DK_20160420004656	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420004657	Thank you for a relevant question. We are presenting a proposal for a nature package, and I can already say that some of what the government is concerned with are the light-open areas and how to let the farmer become an even more skilled naturekeeper and natural manager, so that the light-open areas develop with more biodiversity. And that is some of what we want and which is also the answer to what the rapporteur is asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420004729	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420004730	I am really glad to hear that, so we are just going to repeat, so I am sure that I understand the nature package will also see initiatives that are just about the open country, are about excessive heat, are about meadows, which we will also have to deal with later today, and which aim precisely to ensure that nature is more closely bound together.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420004753	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420004756	I can confirm that the rapporteur is pleased to be able to look forward to the government presenting its natural package, where, among other things, we are looking forward to. will take into account biodiversity in the light-open areas. I can confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420004806	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Lea Wermelin, the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420004811	Thank you. After all, it is no secret that we in the Social Democratic Party are not impressed by the green efforts that the government has made so far. We do not think it has been very good at balancing, as the Minister says otherwise, but we will look forward to the government presenting this natural package. I have seen a few questions, but following on from what Maria Reumert Gjerding asked, there has been a lot of discussion about the green Danish map. I would just like to get a clear message from the Minister now as to whether you are going to scrap it and stick to that decision, or whether you are actually going to use this tool, where we can ensure a more coherent nature and environmental planning together with the municipalities. Isn't that the way we should go?
ParlaMint-DK_20160420004903	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420004905	Thank you for the question. There is no doubt that the government has never been in favour of the green Danish map. In presenting our nature package, we will present how we view the future of the landscape in Denmark. I would like to say to the point of balancing nature considerations, which the rapporteur says the government has not been able to do, that I would like to disagree with that. I think that our entire agricultural and food package is a good example of how to promote targeted regulation in order to ensure a better natural state on those areas where you then have less intensive cultivation, while you have more intensive cultivation on sustainable areas. This is both beneficial to plants and to plant production, and it is also beneficial to nature. So I think this package is a very, very good example of balance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420005000	Mrs. Lea Wermelin.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420005003	After all, we see the agricultural package as exactly the opposite. I do not think that we need to spend the rest of the night discussing the agricultural package, but we have at least been told that the green plus, which was said to be there, was not there. But peace be with it. Another thing that the Minister says in his opening speech here is that forests will be an essential element. After all, since the election campaign, we have also heard from the Left Prime Minister's promise that 25 000 hectares of forest would be planted as untouched forests. I just want the Minister to confirm that, of course, this is also part of the government's natural package.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420005048	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420005050	In relation to the term peace now be with it, as to whether there will now be a plus, I can say to the rapporteur that this is something the government is very concerned about, because that is what we have put the Danes in view of our package. Without, however, going into a long agricultural discussion this evening on the interpretation of state forests for biodiversity purposes, I can already confirm to the rapporteur that state forests will be included as part of our biodiversity efforts when we present the nature package.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420005121	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mr. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420005126	Thank you. I would like to hear from the Minister whether it is not true that the § 3 protection we have at the moment tends to drift in and out of protection, i.e. that it is a very dynamic size that is not clearly defined and that it may be a problem in terms of knowing what nature you are dealing with and in terms of the state it is in next year and in five years' time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420005152	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420005154	Thank you for the question. Yes, I can confirm that there is some dynamism in section 3 areas. But I can also confirm that the government, when it was in government last time, was very concerned about mapping out the section 3 areas and had put a lot of work into it. And that is why we have clear indications of it, but there is, of course, a certain dynamic in it, certainly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420005216	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420005218	Could it not be a smart solution, then, to define a natural zone and once and for all to establish what areas we call nature, and what should then be in them, so that you have a more specific tool to work with?
ParlaMint-DK_20160420005237	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420005238	No.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420005241	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Ida Auken, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420005244	After all, targeted regulation had already been adopted before the agricultural package, so it is a little strange that we should continue to hear it as a very important part of the agricultural package. But let it go. What interested me was that the Minister said that targeted regulation brings more nature. Will the Minister explain how targeted regulation brings more nature?
ParlaMint-DK_20160420005305	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420005306	Yes, the Minister would like that. This is done by promoting, for example, the use of the euro. plant production on good soils. This is done by the fact that vulnerable nature on unintensive soils promotes nature, takes account of the aquatic environment and the like, and it gives overall a better nature. This is done by taking care of our section 3 areas, so that they do not grow in shrubs and the like, for example, but are cared for in relation to the intentions outlined in the agricultural and food package, so that we ensure biodiversity in nature, etc. So a number of points contribute to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420005349	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420005351	Well, I understand from the Minister that plant production gives more nature. Maybe it's a new biological definition I haven't heard before. But I just want to hear the Minister how many acres he means there as a result of the targeted regulation of vulnerable soils will be taken out and turned into nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420005409	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420005410	For me, plant production is nature. It is not nature in the same way as wild forests and all sorts of other definitions. Plant production is also nature in my world. It is possible that it is not in the rapporteur's, but it is in my world. And, frankly, I am not constantly concerned with what definitions are in the field of nature. For me, plant production is nature, and the more stable plant production we have, the stronger plant production we have, the less is the environmental impact that comes from plant production, and it gives overall a better nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420005442	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420005448	Did the Minister just say that the stronger plant production, plant culture we have, the better it is for nature as well? That is the one question I would just like the Minister to clarify. The second is: Will the Minister recognise that most researchers dealing with biodiversity believe that the fact that we have such intensive farming as we have in Denmark, where two thirds of our land is covered by agriculture, is a challenge in terms of biodiversity?
ParlaMint-DK_20160420005531	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420005533	Thank you for the questions. First of all, I can clearly confirm that the stronger a plant one has, the more absorbed there by nitrogen, the more nourishment there is translated into the plant and the less environmental impact. That is why we have also allocated funds with the SF for plant breeding and research, among other things. in the research reserve, because it strengthens the environment to have plant production. So, of course, it contributes to a better state of the environment. In relation to the second aspect of the researchers, it is clear that when you have the intensively run area that we have in Denmark, it challenges biodiversity, and that is also why the government has said that we want a nature package that promotes biodiversity, and one of the places where you can do it very well and very targeted is among other things. untouched forest.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420005617	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420005620	Thank you. Now we have something that looks like 1%. untouched forest in Denmark, close to zero. Does the Minister agree that the biodiversity that we could get in the forests with a completely different effort does not benefit the biodiversity that is under pressure in the open country?
ParlaMint-DK_20160420005644	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420005646	Indeed, these are at least different elements of biodiversity, and that is why the government is also concerned about what we, for example, are doing. can do on the light-open areas so that we promote biodiversity there. We are concerned about how to promote biodiversity in relation to flora and fauna, we are concerned about it in relation to our marine waters, and that is why it will be part of the work both on the Natura 2000 plans presented today, but also on the nature package that we are going to present a proposal for.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420005717	We thank the Minister for the Environment and Food and go to rapporteur remarks. This is Mrs Lea Wermelin, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420005739	Thank you. With B42 Enhedslisten wants to introduce a new area category, natural zone, into the planning law with the primary aim of preserving nature and biodiversity. We fully share Enhedslisten's demand that the government enter the battle in the green area. Unfortunately, so far we have seen a blue block which cancels the green measures that we set in motion when we were in government, in favour of a very one-sided policy in which our nature, our environment and our drinking water pay the price. So we want to be ambitious in relation to Danish natural policy. We want more and better nature and we agree that biodiversity is under pressure in Denmark and that the decline in nature and biodiversity must be turned to progress. Therefore, we also want a larger part of Denmark to be classified for nature and with significantly greater biodiversity. Against this background, we ourselves launched Nature Plan Denmark, which was a comprehensive natural policy to achieve the goal of more and better nature, also in the sea, and to achieve the goal that we also meet the goals of biodiversity, which we have committed ourselves to both in the EU and the UN, a nature plan, which we, among other things, are. also completed together with Enhedslisten. The plan was intended to ensure that nature is linked across the country, so that more coherent nature is created, and one of the important things that we have already mentioned was this green Danish map, which was the basis for both the development of existing natural areas and the preservation of current biodiversity by prioritising the location of new nature. So with the green Danish map Denmark will for the first time have a concrete and unified plan for the Danish nature. Unfortunately, we then have a government and a minister who also just confirmed that the green Danish map will be scrapped and which we also think is quite systematically leading a crusade against green initiatives. That is why we are, in fact, very concerned, and I believe that we share that concern with the proposers, including with regard to the liberalisation of the law on plans, which the government has proposed, whether it will have harmful effects on our nature and the environment, which we cannot roll back. So I would actually like to praise Enhedslisten for launching a very important debate on our nature and environment. It is so much needed. However, in relation to the concrete proposal, it is crucial for us to build on our long and good tradition of local solutions, and that is why we also believe that it is the municipalities that should have the task to designate the green Danish map on the basis of a common map basis and common criteria. We believe that we already have the categories to use in the planning law and that we have many good instruments at our disposal. What is needed is co-thinking across municipal boundaries, and that is why we do not support the proposal here, but we are working to get the green Danish map back.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420010039	There is a brief comment from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420010043	Thank you very much. Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. The idea of nature zones is not one given to Enhedslisten, I must honestly say. It comes from the Social Democrats. In 2011 it was the Social Democrats' proposal that we should have special natural zones and that the land zone should be divided into natural zones and a production zone. Of course, we have been inspired by this, so I am just curious to hear the rapporteur what has happened since then, because I thought it was obvious that we could meet on this idea, which originally originated from the rapporteur's own party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420010118	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420010120	Fortunately, in the Social Democratic Party we have many good ideas, and especially in the green area. As I just said, we have also been able to implement some of the good ideas with you. But what has happened is that we have launched this Nature Plan Denmark, where, as I also said, we actually want to get the municipalities on the line in relation to leaving the planning competence with them, and we do not think that this extra category is needed. But we really want more coherent nature, and especially across the municipal boundaries, and that's why we've spent so much effort and energy making this green Danish map work, and that's also why we're so sorry that the government is going to scrap it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420010204	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420010206	The green Danish map never fully worked, and what is intended with the natural zones together with a green Danish map is precisely to say that there must be areas in our country where the primary purpose is that it should be nature, that this is what must be done there. Nature policy is constantly becoming a tail hanger for a whole lot of other considerations. In the open country there must be farming; in the forests there must be timber felling; in the sea there must be fishing. We need some zones if we are to get to where we are actually stopping the decline that has been going on for decades; where we have a green map of Denmark, but where we then ensure that in the areas we plan for nature, nature is the main objective.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420010253	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420010255	The reason why the green Danish map has unfortunately not been allowed to have the effect that we had expected it to have is, among other things, that the municipalities should not have signed up until next year, so it is no wonder that the full effect of the green Danish map has not been seen. I still believe that's the way to go. So it is not because we do not want to say that there are some areas where nature is paramount. We have also taken a large number of initiatives there, and I think that is what will be discussed here in the next few hours. So we want to do that, but we just don't think it's this solution that needs to be worked on.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420010329	Thank you to the rapporteur. We go further in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mrs Pia Adelsteen, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420010335	Thank you. I would also like to thank the Enhedslisten for making the proposals. I always think it is good that we can discuss biodiversity. I do not think there is anyone in this Parliament who wants no more nature that wants no more biodiversity; apart from the fact that we are committed, it is also a wish I think everyone really wants that. We do it in different ways. I have to say that, in relation to the six proposals that lie today, I think that Amendment No. 1 with a coherent nature, you can say that's how I understand the proposal, so that like trying to get some coherence, you will be quite excellent. All of these six proposals say that it is in order to stop the loss of biodiversity in Denmark with an area category called the natural zone that you want to stop the loss of biodiversity on Denmark's coasts, in Denmark's marine waters, in overland and heat, in fresh meadows and wetlands and in the Danish forests. Then I allowed myself to go back because it was not so long ago that in the blue block, as is popularly called it, we had a resolution called B 144, where we wanted to put 20 per cent. of the forests to untouched forest. So I thought I would go in and read the debate, and now I will make a small quote, because it says here in my papers: 'The shame is... what is in the proposal itself is relatively non-committal. It just says that we must stop the loss of biodiversity. - It's sir. Per Clausen of the Enhedslisten, speaking out on this. And when I was reading Enhedslisten's own proposals, I was wondering if there is anything else in this than that it is such a little non-committal, we must stop the loss of biodiversity, which one must say would be something of a sensation I do not know if we have stopped the loss of biodiversity, but at least it has gone back for many years. I think you can do it in different ways. In the Danish People's Party, we want to improve biodiversity in a wise way. I do not know how to express it, and it is certainly not to belittle anyone, nor is it to make the Danish People's Party wiser than everyone else, but when I have used that expression, it is because I think you have to look at it in a very general way. I think we also got a clear impression of this when we just made B 144 about untouched forest. Because later, with the then Minister for the Environment Kirsten Brosbøl, we had a meeting with the Danish Nature Agency, we suddenly got a completely different insight into what nature and biodiversity mean. In any case, I thought that was quite enlightening. It is not just a question of untouched forest, it is not just a question of having wet meadows, it is not just a question of making one thing or the other, it is much, much more complex. In fact, I think that Enhedslisten expresses this very well with the six proposals, but I would also like to say that I think it is a little bit strange to make six proposals which at no time mention the cost. In other words, there are proposals to buy land free for nature, to re-establish rock reefs and mussel banks, to convert coastal agricultural land from cultivation to nature use, to permanently set aside agricultural land to protect and bind fragmented nature together, to restore watercourses and to carry out extensive restoration measures in meadows and wetlands in order to restore habitats that have been lost and so many different measures in forests. As far as funding is concerned, it does not say what it costs; it says that an instrument of land distribution and so subsidies will be used for nature-friendly farming. That's what I've been able to read myself to. I may have missed something, but considering that when we had B 144 down here in the Chamber that we would put 20 per cent. of the state forests to untouched forests, where we thought it would cost 20%. of the income that the state had, and we were told that we could shoot a white stick after it at the time, because it would cost a lot more, then I would really like to know how to finance all these measures, because I have a little difficulty in seeing that. That's one thing. And then I think you have to do it in a different way. I have no doubt that we in the Danish People's Party, together with the government, can come up with a way to do it, which I, without being condescending, will regard as a wise way. So the Danish People's Party cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420010831	There is a brief comment from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420010834	Now the rapporteur is talking about a great many things. I can perfectly explain why we have tabled six motions for resolutions. It acts among other things. on B 144, which would ensure untouched forest, as § 3 was abandoned. That is why today, in a very, very late night hour, we are going to discuss different habitat types, so that things can be mixed together in that lighthouse makes no sense to nature at all. All species living in the open country and living in the § 3 areas will not benefit from the untouched forest. I am delighted if the rapporteur wants to come up with some wise way, but frankly I think that one could now start to reveal what the wise way is. Because it is soon enough to hear one politician after another praise the objectives we have set together, without at any time wanting to take political responsibility for how we are going to achieve those objectives. It has gone back year after year and we are losing species that are irreplaceable, and that is what is happening right now. So at some point someone will have to step up and explain what it is they will do.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420010946	Although it is late, we also have speaking time. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420010950	And fortunately for that, otherwise we could be here for a long time. I have no doubt that when Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerd gets up on the platform, we get the whole fire talk that all of us are blackseers and that we don't want nature any good. I have no doubt about that, because this has been the case from day one, at least since I became an environmental rapporteur. But I am just of a different conviction, and I certainly have a somewhat different attitude to what nature is than Enhedslisten has seen in the light of these motions for resolutions. I actually enjoy going for a walk in the woods. There may well be trails, there may well be forests that are cultivated so that you can walk in it. There may also be untouched forests, so there may be both. There must be meadows. I love going out to the Deer Sea Tray and seeing all the deer. That's nice. And I love driving on a road on North Funen and driving toads over, because there are so many, so all the way is filled. Unfortunately, I can't help but hit them. It is just to say that nature is incredibly many things, and in my optics it seems sometimes that Enhedslisten has the right definition of what nature is and what biodiversity is, at least according to the rapporteur, but I do not necessarily think she does.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420011101	Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420011103	With all due respect, what we are discussing is neither the rapporteur's preferences nor my preferences for one thing or another. What we are discussing is to stop our country's worrying loss of nature and wealth of species, no matter what you prefer to walk in. That's what we're talking about. I only ask the rapporteur to make a proposal from the Danish People's Party on how to stop that decline. What we have done in the resolution is to say how we will do it. If you criticise it and say that it is hopeless, that it is stupid and that you want to do it wisely, then my question is: what is the wise way? The solutions must be on the table now!
ParlaMint-DK_20160420011145	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420011147	In any case, the wise way is to know what things cost before starting something, and I cannot read that from any of the resolutions tabled by the Enhedslisten. I simply cannot see the financing of all the things I mentioned in my speech. Then may I just quote one more thing from Mr. Per Clausen's speech under B 144: It will be unique, because biodiversity has been in decline for decades, to stop the decline in biodiversity. It's sir. Per Clausen's words under B 144. So if you have found the uniqueness of the six proposals at Enhedslisten, we will review them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420011232	There is a brief comment from Mrs Lea Wermelin.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420011235	Thank you. This is because it sounds a little bit at the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, as if the best defense is an attack, because I agree with the Enhedslisten's rapporteur that the wise way in which the rapporteur proposes we are not so much wiser about what is. So I would really like to put myself in the slipstream of it and hear: What is it then that the Danish People's Party wants to do? The rapporteur must correct me if I am wrong, but I understand it a little as if what was involved in proposing, together with the rest of the blue block, in the B 144 on untouched forest, is no longer going to happen. Is that how it's supposed to be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20160420011325	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420011327	I think if we can get some untouched forest, it would be really good. But when Mrs Kirsten Brosbøl was Minister for the Environment, that is, the rapporteur's own party colleague, and we had B 144 up, we were then summoned to a meeting of the Minister for the Environment, where the Nature Agency said: we understand the proposal, but you have to look at it in another way. It certainly made me smarter. I hope that it also made others wiser. That is why I have also said later that if it should be 20%, then I should not stick to it, because it may well be that we can do it differently, so that it does not cost the 35-40 million. kr., as was estimated at the time, but comes down to a different amount. After all, we have to look at the economy. That's why I'm talking about a smart way. And then I haven't found the stone of the wise, as to where it is equally wise and so on everywhere. But what is important is, of course, that we do something about biodiversity. I have no doubt about that at all. And then I have the confidence that the government will come up with some suggestions that I think are wise.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420011432	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420011434	The reason I ask is that, when the Social Democratic Party was in government, we put forward a plan, Nature Plan Denmark, which was both funded and which had a large number of initiatives in this area, and where we were also discussing, for example. questions of untouched forest with the rapporteur's party. I am well aware that there was that meeting and that it was just said that it was more expensive than that. But what I just need to hear from the rapporteur is: does not the Danish People's Party have an independent policy in this area, or is one just waiting for the government to make its bid before lifting the veil here a late night hour for what is the Danish People's Party's natural policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20160420011516	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420011518	So, if the rapporteur for the Socialists expects the Danish People's Party to draw up such a whole nature plan, then no, we do not.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420011527	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420011530	Thank you. The rapporteur is concerned that it will be possible to go for a walk in an ordinary Danish forest with beech trees and trails, of which we have so many. I should like to start by saying that we have a total forest area of 18%. of that forest is state forest, and you talk about redeploying 20%. 18 per cent of the 18 per cent of the 18 per cent of the 18 per cent of the 18 per cent of the 18 per cent of the 18 per cent of the 18 per cent of the 18 per cent of the 18 per cent of the 18 per cent of the 18 per cent of the 18 per cent of the 18 per cent of the 18 per cent of the 18 per cent of the 18 per cent of the 18 per cent of the 18 per cent of the 18 per cent of the 18 So that's 4 per cent. of the total forest area we're talking about here. So I just want to say that you can be quite calm there will be plenty of the usual forest to walk in. That's only 4%. of the total forest area we're talking about right now, if we're talking 20%. untouched state forest. I would like to hear from the rapporteur, if it is not true, that researchers are therefore the ones who know the most about nature, about biodiversity • actually tell us that we are in a special crisis, some call it the sixth mass extinction of species, and that we in Denmark are really forced into that area, so that there is no doubt that we are not going to be able to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420011641	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420011643	I would just like to say that there are different rules as to how you as a person can enter a private forest versus a state forest. That is why I am actually in favour of having state forests, because it is open at all times of the day for all people. That is the case in state forests, but it is not the case in private forests. That's where you have to come from. 6:00 in the morning until sundown. So there's a difference. Now I grew up in the woods myself, so I'm really happy to go there, and I'm actually really happy to go where there are trails. Nor is it always the case in a private forest.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420011722	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420011724	Yes, and so it is that when we speak untouched forest, we are not talking about a forest that we are not allowed to touch. This is a forest where you typically want to keep the trails close, but where you want to make some moves inside the forest, which means that trees that have fallen are allowed to lie down and that nature gets a little wilder at all. There is no question that you cannot move around in such a forest. On the contrary, you will be able to use it and get stronger experiences, some more exciting experiences, some new types of experiences. Is it not only positive, also in relation to the use of the forest?
ParlaMint-DK_20160420011801	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420011802	Yes, but now the rapporteur puts words in my mouth. It may well be that the rapporteur himself finds this a more exciting way of experiencing nature when there are trees rotting and so on. etc. Well, I like both. I like that red beech forest where you can see the forest floor with all the leaves and so on, but I like the other one too. In fact, I think that both are biodiversity itself, if I may put it that way, because I think it is. So let's call it primeval forest when we talk about untouched forest I think it's a better term.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420011834	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. It's Mrs. Anni Matthiesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420011841	Thank you. Thank you to the Enhedslisten for presenting these six motions for resolutions which we are discussing here at a late night hour. As the previous rapporteurs have also said, the motions for resolutions concern primarily how to stop the loss of biodiversity here in Denmark. We have to say, as the Minister also said, that we are voting against these six motions for resolutions. Our nature in Denmark is of great joy and great benefit to many, both humans and animals, and the way our nature looks like is also of great importance to the species that live in it. Nature is of great importance to the environment and climate, and it is of course important that we safeguard it. And right now, which may not be said to be a surprise, the government is preparing a new, ambitious nature package, and it has to be among other things. help to halt the decline in biodiversity as well. As I said, the nature package aims to stop the decline in biodiversity, but without at the same time sending a huge bill to taxpayers. Because it is very important for me to emphasise that we live in an interaction with nature, and we also have an obligation, as parliamentary politicians, to ensure that we get the most nature for the money. In the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Enhedslisten, which is a motion for a resolution tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, the Group of the The proposal will, of course, cost society quite dearly, and I, like the previous rapporteurs, have sought the overall price of these motions for resolutions. That is one of the things I can perhaps hope that the Enhedslisten's rapporteur will be able to tell us when the Enhedslisten's rapporteur himself comes to the floor. In any case, I have had a really, really difficult time reading them carefully to find out what the cost of these motions is. We feel, as has also been mentioned earlier, that, among other things, we are in a position to do so. It is very hopeful that forests will also be part of the common nature package. That is at least one of the things that I personally have played in with. As I said, I think it is really, really important that we protect Danish nature in various ways, and that we put the effort where we also get the most nature for our treasure crowns. All in all, I must say, as I said at the outset, that the resolutions we are discussing here tonight are not ones we will be supporting. However, I hope that Enhedslisten will be pleased that we will shortly be presenting our nature package, which will also focus on this by stopping the loss of biodiversity.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420012207	There is a brief comment from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420012211	I really think it is a pity that the rapporteur is not more in favour of this proposal, because I think that we are in fact responding to some of what the rapporteur has raised as a problem in the past, namely that the farmer may be concerned about whether, if he cares about it, nature can suddenly grow into protection. With nature zones, we would remove that concern. We wanted to remove that doubt. We could make sure that everyone knew where the natural zones were, and this with Section 3 one could gradually phase out because we had natural zones instead. I would very much like to explain the costs, but the speaking time is limited, and I will come up to the platform and do it in detail when it comes to my turn. However, I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur does not see that it solves what the rapporteur has just pointed out as a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420012255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420012258	I would therefore like to say quite quickly that if the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten has understood that I am only negative, then it should not be understood in this way. I can easily see that there are also exciting things in these motions for resolutions. What I have been looking for, as I said, is: how much does this cost? Then I still have to say that I think we have an obligation not only to introduce new rules and new restrictions that burden agriculture. However, I also think that the environmental rules that we already have today and, for that matter, the rules that we have in the law on plans, etc., help to safeguard our environment and nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420012339	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420012342	Well, nature in the open country is in decline. What you want to do in forests is cost-effective, yes. But it does not save the vibe, it does not save the lark, it does not save our diversity and our butterflies in the open country. These are irreplaceable values. Of course, we have to count on the proposals, and of course they have to be financed. You can do so in many ways, as I will also explain to you, but does the rapporteur not agree that, regardless of what our children and grandchildren must also experience the amazing nature that we have in Denmark, with larks and vibes and butterflies, those species that are so pressured that they are dying out? It's not a joke we're standing here. It is not a joke that we have tabled these motions for resolutions. That is because the situation we are facing is quite, quite serious.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420012425	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420012426	In fact, I think it is the Enhedslisten's rapporteur who is quite negative, because I have to say that I still wonder why year after year we keep saying that things are going the wrong way. Because I really think we've already put a lot of millions into restoring nature, in caring for nature. And then I sometimes think: what have we done wrong in the last many years, when we have invested a number of millions to also ensure good nature and good nature care? So I hope, after all, that the Enhedslisten rapporteur can also find positive steps in what has been going on for many years.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420012511	The next brief remark is from Mrs Lea Wermelin.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420012514	Thank you. What prompted me to ask here was that the rapporteur himself referred to the very fact that forests must be part of what you are going to propose with your natural package. And there we heard before the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party say that after B 144 you were actually aware that what you had proposed was not possible for the 10 million. kr., which had been deposed when in opposition. But even after they had been told, the Prime Minister, who at that time stood up to become Prime Minister in the election campaign, said that the Left promised to lay 25,000 hectares of state forest for untouched forests. So I just need the rapporteur to guarantee that this is also what you want to do in your natural package.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420012603	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420012604	I would like to put it this way that I am not making any guarantees here tonight. But what I can say is that one of the things that really matters to the Left is that we get as much nature as possible for the money. And one of the things I have at least learned more about is that, in relation to the area of red-listed species, there is a great deal to be achieved in the forests. That is why I believe that the very thing about forests will be part of what I hope will be included in the package.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420012633	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420012635	Now, of course, I do not want the rapporteur to offer any new guarantees. I would just like the rapporteur to confirm what the Prime Minister promised before the elections, namely that 25 000 hectares of forest would be set aside for untouched forests. This is, in fact, a very simple question, so I do not really understand why the rapporteur is slipping off on it, because at least at the time when the Prime Minister promised this, it was known that it would cost more than 10 million. kr. a year. So I cannot really understand if the rapporteur cannot now say that he will confirm that it will, of course, be included as promised.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420012716	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420012719	Now the Socialist rapporteur knows very well that, unfortunately, the Left does not have 90 seats of its own, and that means that we will have to negotiate on matters. I look forward very, very much to starting this soon with other parties and discussing what the nature package should look like.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420012739	Then it's mr. Christian Poll for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420012741	It's very short. I would just like to know whether the rapporteur feels confident that the nature package from the government, which is apparently just around the corner, will certainly stop the decline in biodiversity by 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420012754	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420012757	Yes, I am incredibly confident that the Left Government will soon present a package of nature that will help to focus on how to halt the decline in biodiversity. Then I have to say that it is clear that there may also be a limit to how much money you have to put into these things. I would just like to say that I am confident that it is fortunately the Left who brings the project to the nature package.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420012825	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420012827	Is the rapporteur sure that the nature package will reach its goal, i.e. that we will actually make it to 2020 with the package that is just around the corner, as I understand it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160420012837	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420012839	At any rate, I can reassure the questioner that we will do everything we can to ensure that the decline in biodiversity is stopped, and that is also why I have no doubt that it will be an extremely ambitious nature package that will be presented. And then I hope that the other parties, who are also present in this Chamber tonight, will join in supporting it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420012901	Then it's Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420012903	The Prime Minister has promised 25,000 hectares of untouched forest, and I understand from Mrs Anni Matthiesen that there is doubt as to whether a majority can be obtained in her own block for it. But then I can tell Mrs Anni Matthiesen that I am quite sure that she can find a majority for it in the Folketing. So will Mrs Anni Matthiesen and the Left, if you cannot get its parliamentary basis with them, accept the extended hand so that the Prime Minister can live up to his promise of 25,000 hectares of untouched forest?
ParlaMint-DK_20160420012932	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420012933	What I can at least tell the radical rapporteur is that we, together with the other blue parties, are going to make a package of nature, and we will, of course, invite all other parties to join us. And I hope very much that you can see yourself in the things we are going to present.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420012954	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420012956	It wasn't really a yes or no. There is a prime minister who has promised 25,000 hectares of untouched forest. There is a possible majority in the Folketing for it. Should we expect to see a Prime Minister fulfilling his promise, or should we also see a Prime Minister in this area who has not been able to keep his promise?
ParlaMint-DK_20160420013012	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420013014	Well, I am quite sure that Mrs Ida Auken too can show a little more patience and wait for a package of nature to be presented in a short space of time. Then I am sure that Mrs Ida Auken will also welcome the content of the nature package.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420013029	Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420013033	There's a lot of talk about this nature package, which at least some of us have to wait anxiously to see. However, if we are just talking about the nature package, it sounds a little bit on the Left's rapporteur, as if it is the nature package that has to save it all. The Left's rapporteur now also talks a lot about funding, a funding that is similar to moving the Danish Hunting and Forestry Museum from Hørsholm to Djursland. I just think that compared to the fact that we spend 10 billion. kr. in the agricultural sector, and that this is a package of nature which was spoken of as if it were going to save Danish nature for decades to come, does the rapporteur think that it is quite proportional to set aside the same amount for a natural package as to relocate state jobs, which can be fine enough? I am thinking of moving one museum from one place in this small country to another.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420013136	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420013138	I have to admit, I think it's a strange comparison. I do not think it is possible to make the comparison of measuring the relocation of some state jobs against what money is going to be spent on stopping the decline in biodiversity. For me, it's kind of like starting to compare apples and pears.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420013158	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420013200	I actually think that most Danes can see that it is perhaps a small amount in this context when moving one museum costs the same as what you want to base the perhaps next many, many years of nature effort on. I think most people will say that what is most important is what we want to impose on ourselves, so that we also have a rich nature for our grandchildren; the most important thing is not just to live up to our international obligations. Does the rapporteur think that it is proportionate to spend such a small amount in this respect?
ParlaMint-DK_20160420013244	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420013246	After all, we can now discuss when an amount is large and when an amount is small. I still have to say that I am incredibly proud and glad that this is some of what we on the Left have finally taken seriously, because this has been sorely needed, in fact for many years. We're gonna do something about that now. We also, I can reassure the rapporteur, do something by creating an ambitious nature package which will be presented shortly. So we are actually doing something in several areas, and we can handle that at the same time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420013322	We thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. It's now, sir. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420013330	Thank you. Let me begin by saying that the motion for a resolution here, B 42, at least as I see it, is a little superfluous in that Denmark and, incidentally, the Danish Government are already bound by international agreements to stop the decline in biodiversity. And, generally speaking, the Liberal Alliance is not in favour of, and generally does not support, unnecessary bureaucracy, superfluous legislative proposals, etc., and that is why, of course, the Liberal Alliance does not support the specific motion for a resolution either. As usual, however, I am quite happy with all the resolutions tabled by the Enhedslisten, and in particular I would like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for once again having the opportunity to debate nature and the environment in this Chamber, even though it has become a tiny bit late, or indeed it has become a little early. Furthermore, the Liberal Alliance believes that the use of the countryside can easily take place at the same time as protection of nature and the environment, and that this is already happening everywhere in the open country and in our forests. I have exactly the same view as Enhedslisten, and at least as I see the motion for a resolution, I believe that in many cases the existing nature protection rules prevent new nature from flourishing. In fact, the existing rules on nature conservation have as pilot owners the risk that parts of one's property may grow into nature protection areas and with the consequence that other parts of one's property and holding are subject to restrictions, for example. expansion of livestock production. We in the Liberal Alliance believe this to be inappropriate, and we believe that this could lead to some sort of perhaps destructive behaviour among individual users. The Liberal Alliance would also very much like to change this, and has therefore also given the Minister a number of proposals for the debureaucratisation of the rules under the heading of 'Space for nature without clauses' in the forthcoming negotiations on nature, which would also create a slightly greater form of legal certainty for the pilot owner in the open country. Compared to the tool itself, i.e. Enhedslisten's tool, namely the creation of natural zones, the Liberal Alliance simply disagrees. In fact, we support the Government's intention to simplify the law on plans and to abolish, for example, the law on plans. the coastal proximity zone and to loosen up the beach protection rules again in order to create the same legal certainty for pilots in the areas as in the rest of the country. That is why I am once again very pleased to have the opportunity here from Parliament's platform to ask the Minister a little about the planning negotiations and what the timetable might be for those negotiations, not the nature package negotiations, but the planning negotiations. Now we have now heard about and can understand the horizon of the nature package negotiations, but just when it is the planning law, it might also be nice to know whether it is something we can get over on this side of the summer holiday, or whether the government wants to postpone the planning negotiations in the autumn. In addition, I would just like to stress once again that the Liberal Alliance does not support the specific resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420013746	There is a brief comment from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420013750	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Of course, I think it is a pity that the rapporteur and the Liberal Alliance do not support the specific proposal when it will respond to some of the points that the rapporteur also makes, in other words, the destructive behaviour in which one might be afraid that an area can grow into nature protection. How right it is that one has that concern, then we can discuss it depends on how one understands the protection of section 3 areas. However, does the rapporteur not agree with me that it is not enough that we are standing here patting each other on the shoulder over the objectives we are committed to, when we can see year after year that things are going the wrong way? At some point you have to get on the ground with what you think it takes to stop that decline and actually achieve the goal that is moving closer and closer. We have 4 years left; it is really, very short time when we speak nature and biodiversity.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420013847	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420013849	I fully acknowledge that. I fully agree with Enhedslisten and with Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding that of course we have to do something. And we then agree on the objective, but, as I said in my speech, we do not agree on the tool. I believe that introducing a new concept of zones will reduce flexibility. As I also said, instead of presenting some proposals for debureaucratisation to the Minister in the nature package negotiations, which we believe can help solve the problem as much as Enhedslisten believes that Enhedslisten's proposal for a tool does.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420013934	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420013937	However, it is a fact that we are among the countries of the European Union that have least protected nature on our land. We need something more if we are to stop the loss of biodiversity and nature, and natural areas need to be better bound together. This is our bid. Can the rapporteur say anything about what the Liberal Alliance's bid is about, how we achieve that goal: more nature, more protected nature and more coherent natural areas, that is to say, the method itself?
ParlaMint-DK_20160420014005	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420014008	This is among other things. by making it more attractive for the farmer to have unspoiled land, which does not necessarily have the high operational value for the farmer and that such an area can be left more or less untouched, but without growing into a protection and thus imposing restrictions on the farm and farmer in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420014033	We thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. It's sir. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420014050	Nature in Denmark needs a helping hand. The researchers tell us that it is really wrong with biodiversity, especially in Denmark, that some people are actually talking about the sixth mass extinction of races in the world. We therefore have a special obligation to take nature seriously and take nature back into our landscape as a quality in itself, because it is the one we come from, it is the one we connect to, and it is that which among other things. Makes us feel like humans. That is why I really appreciate Enhedslisten's nature package today, which is almost as good as the alternative's. We have also recently presented a natural package, and there are many overlaps between these two natural packages. So I can simply say that we support this nature package and think it is full of good proposals, including the proposal for a natural zone. I was recently in a panel debate under the auspices of the Board of Technology, where we actually got a post at Esben Munk Sørensen, which recommends even more new types of zones that can help us manage our small, densely packed country in a more appropriate and future-proof way. And I see the natural zone as perhaps the first in such a row. Let us concentrate on it and say: one of the things it can do is to make sure of what we have today, where § 3 areas flow in and out of protection, and where it can be difficult to see through what just happened there was this lake had become smaller, this area had grown. With a natural zone we will be able to have well-defined areas as we know it, for example. from habitats and such things, and that is what we think in the alternative will be a good step on the road.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420014252	Thank you to the rapporteur. Maybe we should keep it down a little bit over here, even if it's late at night. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mrs Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420014302	Denmark's nature is having a hard time. It lacks coherence, and it lacks space, and it might well deserve to be allowed to get a little richer. For nature is very inventive, and one of the things that is sad when we lose species is that we lose some of the exciting and wildly fascinating that nature can produce. I still find it strange that you do not see as many butterflies as when I was a child, and I think it is really, really sad that there are fewer bird species and that some of what is very, very Danish, namely our nature, is under such great pressure. So what are we gonna do about this situation? The problem is that it is not easy and that making nature, just as Enhedslisten also writes in his proposal today, often gets at odds with some of the other activities we have. So it all depends, of course, ultimately on a balancing of how we can both ensure a lot of human activities, have agriculture and have fishing, have cities and at the same time have room for nature. It is a great exercise and a great task, and that is why, in the previous government, we set out to create a Commission on Nature and Agriculture, which should look precisely at how to get some synergies, how to try both to benefit nature and agriculture at once. That is why we did a great deal of work, where we got both agricultural interests and nature interests to work together and to see opportunities by working together instead of working against each other, and so it went very well, and there was great support both politically and from the organisations all around. I think it was only sustainable agriculture that did not like what we were doing, but apart from that there was actually a lot of support, and if the government had taken a different approach when it came to it, then it could have been preserved here and worked on from there. Some of the things proposed by the Nature and Agriculture Commission to ensure this were among other things. a green Danish map, to prohibit spraying and fertilization on the § 3 areas • which are our natural areas • and to create a natural fund for Denmark, and the three things we reached in our reign. In addition to the fact that we had the commission to work, we had a green Danmark map, we had some of the most natural and important areas protected, and we had 1 billion set aside. kr. of, and it was actually recognised as the greatest natural action in 20 years of our reign. The tricky thing about this job is finding the way to do it. Because if we are to find the right way to do this, we need biologists, and there we have to agree that nature is not so good at compromises. If there are to be three things here, for example. water and not too much nitrogen and species that can thrive on that type of soil, then it is not acceptable that there are only two of them present, because then nature does not come. So in this way there is something more right to do than other things, and the Enhedslisten has quite rightly described in the six proposals we are discussing today what would be the right thing to do from a biological point of view. At the same time, we also have to say that it is very, very expensive to have nature in Denmark. This is something that costs a lot of money, both to get it there and to care for it. So the difficult task, when we talk about nature, is actually the political one. It is to find the money, it is to negotiate there, and it is to get the interests to meet, and I think the Enhedslisten's proposal today is missing. The lack of concrete realistic proposals on how to finance this, how those who have to pay the bill can get something else to do, or how to ensure that they do not lose their large production. For I fully agree that creating large marine protection areas, protecting our overland and heaths, our meadows and wetlands, our beaches, our shores and making untouched forests, both in state forests and private forests, is the right thing to do, but the question is how to find the money. How do we make this happen? How do we get the stakeholders behind us? That is the great political work. So I would say that although there are many exciting offers today, I do not think a resolution is the right way to make this happen. So we will not go in and vote for and against all these proposals. We think it is good that we have the discussion today, but I do not think it is the way to get a large overall plan of nature for Denmark. That is why we need a government that sits at the top of the table, and that requires a comprehensive plan, including how the funding is to be linked.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420014739	There is a brief comment on Mrs Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420014742	It's just a question. Because I could understand from the rapporteur, who previously asked the Left rapporteur about this with untouched forest, that this is something on which the Radical Left will warmly support, and I would just like to ask what has happened from the time we tabled B 144 in the blue block, when the then rapporteur Lone Loklindt called it a parade proposal. So, what has happened since you are quite willing to go in and support untouched forest?
ParlaMint-DK_20160420014810	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420014813	There are, among other things: We have a government which has no vision in any other area, which has in fact created an agricultural package which goes exactly the opposite way to all that the Nature and Agriculture Commission did, which has abolished the green land map and which has abolished the protection of section 3 areas. So when there's a place where you can get something for nature and that's the untouched forest. Of course we want to be in it, and I'd say that untouched forest is We just don't think that, as has been suggested in the past, it should only lie in the state forests. It may as well lie in private forests, and there we think you can look at some of the forest schemes that you have today to ensure more untouched forests, including in private forests.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420014855	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420014857	It is just to hear whether I understand it correctly: was it then because, when we tabled the proposal, we thought that we ourselves had a better plan, that is, that the nature plan was simply better and that we did not need untouched forests? Or what made the attitude change? 'Cause I'm having a little trouble understanding that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420014914	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420014916	After all, we were doing a great exercise with the green Danish map, and we were in the process of getting funding and getting land taken out of service. It is true, then, that the forests were not the first to be on our list and that they have come up higher on the agenda. I would like to say that, as a matter of fact, I agree, and that the debate has also helped to raise the blue block. But what is my problem in this is that you like to downgrade everything else and that you say that because you get untouched forest, you can treat the open country as poor as you like. That is what I think is the political challenge in this and why I am not just clapping my hands. Because you shouldn't be allowed to hide behind it with an untouched forest. It is a very good and important tool, but you should not use it as a fig leaf for everything else you run and make.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420015001	Then it's Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420015004	I very much agree with that. I think the basic problem with the bourgeois proposal was that you wanted to secure untouched forest while giving up Section 3 nature. That was the cross-check that was fundamentally unacceptable in that proposal. But I would like to ask the rapporteur because I think it is really a pity that the Radicals cannot support the proposal on natural zones: does the rapporteur not agree with me that the way in which land is disposed of really helps to determine how it is used and used? We have been criticised by the OECD for not setting aside enough land for nature. We've made some national parks that don't even live up to it. So not even there is nature first priority. We have nowhere, only small, scattered nature 2000 areas, where nature has a certain degree of protection. How are the Radicals going to solve the fundamental problem, which is why we are not moving away from the issue of nature and biodiversity?
ParlaMint-DK_20160420015057	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420015058	We think that the discussion about dividing the land zone into both a natural and a land zone is interesting, and it is a paradigm change that we need to analyse very carefully. But the reason why we are not going to vote in favour of this proposal is that it is, like, applauded and clear. Enhedslisten has taken a position on how to do it. You've even put on percentages, that is to say 17 per cent. must be the type of nature, and 11%. This type of nature, and we just do not think that a resolution in the Chamber is the right way to end it. I understand that Enhedslisten is doing so and that you want to present your bid, but we would think that it should be in a debate you find out whether the percentages should be right there and that you think through what it means for the whole planning. What does this mean for our rural areas? What does it mean for the possibility of living and working in the outermost regions if you change planning in this way? At any rate, it is not quite clear to me what consequences it has if you think it to the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420015147	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420015150	We are very open to discussing some of these matters in committee. The problem is, of course, that we risk having a bourgeois government by 2019, and then time starts running out in relation to our 2020 objective. So something has to happen and something has to be taken responsibility for, and this is our outstretched hand in saying that we have to put nature and biodiversity on the agenda. Because it goes exactly the opposite way to all natural habitats at all. That is why I hope we can also try to meet on something and at least lay down some lines rather than a change of government and hopefully a more ambitious agenda at a later stage in relation to this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420015231	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420015233	I fully agree with Enhedslisten's rapporteur that it is a major problem that we may risk having this government until 2019. It is also a problem for nature, and it is clear that we need to know what we want to work for when, hopefully at some point, we get the majority again and can show that there is a difference on one side and on the other. For there is Even if you may not always get all your wet dreams fulfilled, there is a huge difference, and we would very much like to be involved in that. I just don't think you have to make a pre-complete package and sit and decide something through the Assembly hall at this point. Because it is not certain that it is the most constructive in terms of making it happen afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420015314	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. This is Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420015329	Our nature is like a feverish flu patient gasping for the weather. In many places, things are really bad. And maybe many people don't discover it in Denmark because we haven't been spoiled with fantastic nature for a long time. These six proposals from the Enhedslisten are really good. We are very much in agreement with them. There is a large overlap in relation to SF's natural policy. One thing is that we would have liked the proposals to have been dealt with together............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Unfortunately, it does not appear that there will be a majority for either the Enhedslisten proposal, the alternative proposal or the SF proposal. This is actually a little strange, because sometimes in the last few months it has seemed as if there could be a green majority in the Folketing. If we were to make a little effort, if the Conservatives were to help us a little, if the Socialists and Radicals would also agree, then perhaps we could say that it might well be that we have a coal-black government in this country, but sometimes it seems that in the best of all worlds there could be a green majority. Generally speaking, as I said, we are very positive about the various elements. SF believes that Denmark should have a framework law, as I said, for nature and biodiversity, because for example. land use should have a law that sets the basis for nature and biodiversity as a starting point, for example. Agriculture, forestry, etc. We agree with what Enhedslisten also writes, as the experts say, and as the Biodiversity Convention says, 17 per cent. of the area shall be designated with nature and biodiversity as the main purpose. I very much agree with what the radical rapporteur has said and what the Socialist rapporteur has said about precisely that it is a really bad thing that the green Danish map has been withdrawn. It was a tool we had to assume. We would like the municipalities to have the first bid to plan nature according to the existing nature. Both are, moreover, very much uphill right now, because the government is precisely trying to remove the green Danish map, because in these years the Left puts all kinds of imaginable and unimaginable considerations of agriculture over all other considerations. 59 per cent. the natural habitat types in Denmark listed in Annex 1 to the Habitats Directive have a strong or moderately unfavourable conservation status. That number almost says it all. Logically, this would mean that, in order to meet the objective of halting the decline in species and habitats by 2020, it must at least be ensured that these habitat types are moving away from unfavourable conservation status. Therefore, in SF, in line with Enhedslisten, we propose that the 2020 target should be legalised so that it can also be demonstrated whether this is the case. Otherwise, action will be taken to stop the decline. For one of the major problems we have with Danish natural law or lack of it is the absurd lack of targets and binding legislation, so that we can see whether we are actually achieving those milestones. We often talk about the fact that we did not achieve the target in 2010 and that we probably will not achieve it in 2020 in relation to biodiversity, but there is not really anything like that that binding us. In this area, we cannot look only a few years ahead, we will have to look 10 years, 20 years, 50 years ahead, and that is what makes it so difficult when you have two sides of a Parliament hall • perhaps not included Conservatives who are reasonably far apart, because then it makes it difficult to make the broad settlements that often need to be made in order to make long-term legislation. That's what's so hard. Because when we do something that we think is ambitious, it doesn't take much more than a change of government to change it. After all, it is neither fair to nature, nor to ourselves, nor to those farmers and pilots who cannot count much longer in the future than a four-year period. I will not make as long speeches on the next six proposals. This was like the framework for it. But I would say that, overall, we are very positive. We would like these elements to be linked together, and then it could happen that the chrome-plated natural package is presented before we have to vote on this, so we also have the same thing to do against each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420015903	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420015908	I have a brief question on previous questions. I just want to ask whether the Socialist People's Party and Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen are not in favour of the relocation of state jobs, because I was somewhat impressed by that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420015925	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420015927	In fact, I do very much. Of course, you have to look at the concrete example, but in general terms I do. I just thought it was a little funny that this huge effort on nature had the same funding as moving a museum. I just thought that was a good example. But I have nothing against the relocation of state jobs. I think it is a discussion in all parties, and I think it is actually quite related to where you are from in the country. And since I grew up in South Jutland and have lived for many years in North Jutland, I would say that I can understand the rationale. But that doesn't change the fact that it's a little cheap to spend the same money moving a museum from one place in this country to another place that you spend on nature, that is, that the removal costs must be the same for a museum that you think it's worth spending on our nature for many years to come.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420020018	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420020020	I am just wondering about the comparison, because then we will not have to build any more roads, because it also costs as much as what we spend on nature and so on. etc. Well, it's the screw without end when you compare those things. But I shall not go into that again. I have another question about untouched forest. Is the rapporteur and the SF also prepared to support a proposal on untouched forests? So, I know that the rapporteur on B 144 said that SF thought it was a scam proposal. So I would like to know if there has been a change of attitude, because there are actually a great many of us now who want something untouched forest.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420020058	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420020101	I actually brought an old speech up here because I had to use some of these figures, where I started with it is an answer to Mrs Pia Adelsteen's question, so she must be patient to say: At the beginning of the Left Government's period they promised to do a lot of good for the biodiversity of the Danish forests, but it was within the principle of swapping the merchant. The open country had to pay the bill, etc. etc. It was our impression that if we went along with this, we indirectly agreed that the open country should pay, because that was the framework in which it was presented. Now all that shit and shit about the agricultural package has gone through anyway, and then we want to vote for more untouched forest.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420020146	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420020152	Thank you for that and thank you for the positive attitude towards our proposal. I would just like to repeat to the rapporteur why we have separated the debate on these proposals. This is because there has been a debate for years, which, among other things, has been the case. expressed with B 144 and expressed when the Left launches their natural-political visions and gives the impression that you can trade with nature, that if we just take the most cost-effective tool that is untouched forest, then we do not have to worry so much about the other things. What is becoming clear in the proposals we have put forward is that each nature type needs its own action plan completely independently. That is what we want to discuss, namely the extent to which the task we face to stop the decline in nature and biodiversity really is.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420020246	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420020248	I understand that too, and I understood it when the rapporteur said it the first time, but it is only a consideration that needs to be taken because we have been faced with situations where some would be playing trade. I hope, then, that the rapporteur believes that what they do in the best of all worlds, if we knew we had a majority for what we would like, makes the most sense to create a framework legislation because the various elements are well connected. However, I fully understand the rapporteur's rationale, also in relation to the answer I just gave to the DF's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420020317	We thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. It is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420020327	I would like to mobilise a little effort and profit to thank the Enhedslisten for having put forward these many different proposals which we are fortunate to be allowed to spend the night negotiating here in Parliament. Throughout the world, we know that biodiversity is under pressure. Animal and plant species are dying out at a worrying rate. We are losing important ecosystems, destroying food chains, risk removing just the plant that could potentially contain the important medicines of the future. We must, of course, work to stop the decline in the diversity of nature across the globe, because it is important, but also, of course, because we have committed ourselves to it, both through the United Nations Convention on Biodiversity and via the European Union. But if I'm to be honest, I can be worried if this is possible if I just have to be a hero Every day, a number of plant and animal species disappear from the surface of the earth. We do not know exactly how many, but we know that between a hundred and a thousand times more quickly than would happen naturally, and we know that up to a quarter of the EU's mammals, amphibians and reptiles, birds and butterflies are threatened. In Denmark more than 340 species have died out since 1850, so there are also many challenges in this country. Climate change reinforces the threats we are experiencing against the existing nature. The climate has a decisive influence on the spread of species, and when it changes rapidly, as unfortunately it does in these years, it causes dramatic changes in the composition of species. Some species are favored, others are disadvantaged. The migration times of migrating birds and the origins of the beech have already changed in the last few years. It is envisaged that geographical variations of species will increase in the future, both on land and in the sea, as for example. is about to happen to the cod. In the Conservative People's Party, we recognise that we are facing a huge challenge. Can we stop the decline in biodiversity by 2020? Honestly, we don't believe that. Shall we try? Yes, of course we do. Nevertheless, we reject these six motions for resolutions which have come from the Enhedslisten. There are plenty of sensible elements in them in which we could easily discuss further and in which we can also see some perspective and some possibilities. In this way it has been an interesting work to have to deal with these motions for resolutions. But I will come a little after the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, because there is a lack of funding for the juices. I have previously asked the rapporteur about this and understand that Enhedslisten has financed their own proposals in their own economic plans, and since you have it, you also know what these proposals cost. And then I really think it would have been quite good to write it in these proposals so that they could be discussed from a more open perspective for all parties, because one must be willing to appreciate this, both what it will cost the state, but also what it costs socio-economically. The DF's rapporteur sketched out some of the heavy expenses earlier this evening, and I will not repeat that. If I may be so frank, it may sometimes seem to me that there is such a little competition in the red block about who can be the most green. There have been new parties on the field, and there are many who would like to mark themselves. And I think that sometimes leads to such a little overbiding policy in cementing that you are just the most green one. To be honest, it was my idea when I read this proposal. There are elements where we can agree. We have a particular challenge in relation to maritime areas. For example, the rapporteur and I also have some discussions on dredging in the Øresund, where we would like more to be done to protect the wealth there, precisely because of the ban on trawl fishing that has been in place since the late 1930s, as I recall. In addition, it has been turned on several occasions today that we know that six out of ten red-listed species are found in the forests, we know that four out of ten only exist in the forests, and that is why we do not escape the fact that forests are an important element. However, I also agree with the previous rapporteurs that this cannot replace action in the other areas. It can't. But we know that there is a great deal to be gained from money in socio-economic terms by investing in forestry, and that is why it makes good sense for action to be taken there. But we have to be realistic about this nature package. I was enjoying the comparison earlier in relation to the level of expenditure, which I thought was quite telling somewhere. We should not imagine that it can stop the decline in biodiversity, and if I am to be quite honest, I am not sure that if we had had a newly elected red government, it would have succeeded in stopping this decline, because the task is greater than I think we are imagining. But we reject all six proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420020838	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420020842	Given how rarely we in the Parliamentary Assembly discuss nature, I think it is an interesting claim that there has been competition in the red block. It is not that we are falling into all sorts of different proposals. In relation to the cost of the proposals, I have also told Mrs Abildgaard in the second context that we are financing 360 million. kr. on our draft financial regulation, we re-prioritize pesticide taxes by 150 million. kr. per year, and we fully modulate from pillar one to pillar two in the rural programme all 15% that we can and we re-prioritize what is called growth and competitiveness. So we're gonna set aside several billions by 2020 for this package. Then you have to get as far as you can get. I think you have to have an entire ministry in the back in order to be able to detail these proposals. But what this is all about is political priority. I was able to read quite recently that the Conservative People's Party would like 40 new fighter planes. It is therefore a cost of 40 billion. This is a quite open and honest political priority. The Conservative People's Party wants an air force. We want to ensure nature for future generations.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420020951	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420020953	In relation to the red block competition, I just think that we should look at the amount of consultation that is being called for, the amount of motions for resolutions. I was just doing the blue folders today, and the pile on the environment is bigger than any of my other 13 rapporteurs. So there are at least very energetic rapporteurs, and that is only good. This is not something I should criticise, but I think it is a fact that it is one of the areas where it is really being approached from all sides, so as not to talk about the questions that are of course also being asked. The rapporteur is right. Of course it's about priorities. Enhedslisten has created an economic plan that introduces taxes for the Danes, which we do not agree with in the Conservative People's Party. We don't want a society like that. Does that mean we don't care about nature? No, it doesn't mean that. Do we want more fighter planes? Yes, that is what we want, because we believe that is absolutely fundamental to our democracy and to our security in this country. I do not want us to make this up in the way that Enhedslisten does. I can also point to other costly measures that the Enhedslisten wants, which we do not want in the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420021057	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420021100	Let us then return to what is the theme, namely natural zones and precisely to stop the decline, because I agree with the rapporteur that this is an incredibly difficult task that we must tackle now. What, then, is the Conservative People's Party's bid for this? This is because we need to ensure greater and coherent natural areas, where the main purpose is to look after our nature, so that we ensure this, and I also know that the Conservative People's Party is concerned that future generations can have a rich and diverse nature, just as we ourselves have had.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420021131	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420021134	As the rapporteur himself has said in the past, we need to address the various natural habitat types that now exist. It is not enough for us to make more untouched forests and to think that we are going to solve all the problems there, but we also have a responsibility to use the funds we now have at our disposal with the utmost care. We know that we get a lot for the money when it comes to untouched forest. We are helping many of the red-listed species in this way, but that does not justify us not doing anything in the other areas. However, it is a debate that we must have in the natural package circle which will meet very soon, and we look forward to that, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420021208	Mrs. Lea Wermelin.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420021213	Thank you. I couldn't help but enjoy the competition to be the greenest in the red block, because it's certainly not the blue one. It's obvious. But it would be nice if the blues, too, got a little more into that fight. On the other hand, what I would like to ask about this proposal is something else. I took part here recently, together with the rapporteur, in a debate on biodiversity and forests. There the rapporteur said, if I do not remember much wrong, and I can also see that the rapporteur, among other things. has been quoted for it at Altinget • that Conservative breathes life in Green Denmark Card. That sounds good, so I would just like to ask the rapporteur: what is the position of the Conservatives on Green Denmark Card? Is that something we can work together to revive?
ParlaMint-DK_20160420021302	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420021305	When Green Denmark Card was introduced, we voted Conservatives against it. There it was part of a bigger package. I still need to get some answers to some questions. I would like to state quite frankly that this is something that has been on the table in the context of the planned negotiations. It was in the play that came from the government there. I have asked many questions about why Green Denmark Cards are actually so problematic. We have abolished the peripheral zones, which could also serve as a corridor to ensure these coherent habitats. I think that might be an excellent opportunity to try to re-examine the view on Green Denmark Card. However, we are still away in a process where I get answers to some questions and where we are discussing things back and forth. I understand that there is a concern and fear on the part of farmers that, although this designation is based on voluntary agreements, in time it will develop into areas subject to a large number of restrictions. But that is one of the things we are discussing in the negotiations that are currently under way.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420021400	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420021403	It was a little woolly, if I may be so free. In fact, I think that the rapporteur says it better at Altinget, where the rapporteur says "and I quote: Green Denmark Cards will help municipalities to think long-term and ensure coherent nature. And this is one of our great challenges at home. That we have a lot of nice fragmented nature, but lack the points that bind them together. In fact, I think that the rapporteur may in fact say this a little more clearly than from the platform, and I would just like to call on the rapporteur to take it into account in the negotiations which it seems we have not been invited as guests at least and stick to that quote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420021440	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420021445	If the rapporteur were to read out the whole article, which might be loyal to him, then the rapporteur would also see that I say that we breathe life into it and that we say that we are asking a large number of questions. I am not saying anything concluding, I am saying exactly the same thing I have said from the platform here. But it is true that I would point out that the KL itself wants this initiative. KL, with the Left in the lead, wants this initiative, and that is the reason why I have asked some in-depth questions about it here. Then I can say to the Social Democrat rapporteur that you are also with us. In any case, you are also invited to these plotting discussions, so I would also urge the Social Democrats to take this into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420021518	Then it's mr. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420021523	Thank you. I also need to address this competition in the opposition to present ambitious packages. I would say that it is perhaps more an expression of the fact that we recognise that this is a very serious global crisis, where Denmark is also at the really boring end of the scale, so that we simply need to take the problem of biodiversity seriously. Compared with the order of magnitude, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen made a very good comparison: the 89 million. kr., which is the nature package, set against what we spend on agriculture, 10 billion. kr. a year, so I thought that they might be two interesting sizes to compare with each other. Then I thought I would ask the rapporteur if it would not be inspiring to look at the benefits that come out of some of these proposals around nature, for example. This is because if you stop using scraping gear, you get more sustainable fishing and, in fact, you get more jobs in many of the smaller ports and things like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420021634	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420021637	I can't help but smile about the fact that I've managed to get almost all of you to comment on this green competition in the red block. It tells me that I may have hit something that might be a little sensitive and sensitive, but I shouldn't blame you for competing for it. This is an important matter. My point is just that, as I also heard Mrs Ida Auken point out, if we want to take advantage of the green majority, which can be established from time to time in Parliament, it requires more pragmatism than competition in order to reach each other. And, as I also said to the Enhedslisten rapporteur, there are certainly elements in this which we find very interesting, but we do not like the presentation of an overall package that we do not know the price of. It feels like we're buying the cat in the bag. There are many of these proposals which place a great deal of strain on agriculture, and so we do not make an agricultural package to go out and impose a large number of new burdens on the same agriculture.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420021735	Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420021743	I did not really want to take the floor, but the rapporteur said something at the end here, namely that achieving results really requires pragmatism. But it also requires that we show that we are on board, or at least in that direction. And there I think that both Mrs Ida Auken and Mrs Mette Abildgaard are very quick to say that it is not possible or that you do not know the price, instead of saying: we are actually really interested in this direction. Let us sit down in committee or somewhere else and see if this so-called green majority is just a mirage or whether it actually could be used for something. Let's take a look. Let's get some people to help us figure it out and see how far we can get. That would, of course, be a pragmatic approach rather than rejecting it blankly, I think. Perhaps I have been slightly disappointed by the rapporteur on the platform. I have very high thoughts on the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420021844	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420021848	Of course it requires pragmatism, but I must also say that we need to be able to finance what we then meet pragmatically about. Now a natural package was discussed before, and a friendly hand came from Mrs Ida Auken, in relation to the fact that you could just make something untouched forest with red block. I find it difficult to see why we bourgeois politicians should sit and find money to finance a natural package ^ which also means that you have to cut some things down and then go out and make the deal with red block and give influence away in that way. I just find that hard to see what the interesting part should be in. And that is how I am pretty sure parliamentary practice was before the parliamentary elections. I don't think there's any such groundbreaking news in making deals like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420021936	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420021940	There are, of course, many parties which have used the alternative majority that now existed. Now Conservatives are not in government, and then it is something else, that is true. Then there are some bindings I should say hello and say. But if you were serious, there was a green majority in this Chamber. I shall not begin to speculate at all in such inner life between Conservative and Left. I just think that if this were really something you were interested in, then it would also give influence to the green policy of the Conservatives to use the majority that was there.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420022018	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420022021	But I just have to say that the green policy of the Conservative People's Party and the green policy of the Enhedslisten are not the same. It is not conservative policy to impose a large number of burdens on industry or agriculture, as these proposals do, for example. We have managed, for example in the field of energy, to exploit this green majority, to create some interesting collaborations, to have a really constructive approach to each other, perhaps also in the nature of matters tied up in broad energy reconciliations. I think we could learn from that, including in the environmental field.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420022050	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420022105	Thank you. I was actually going to say that today is quite special. It would be more fair to say that this night and we must today or tonight, forgive us for discussing how to stop the decline of nature and of our biodiversity, also called biodiversity, that is perhaps more rightful. It is high time that the state of our nature and our species wealth was taken seriously, because Denmark becomes poorer every day that passes; poorer because the diversity of nature disappears at an alarming rate before our eyes. The decline in biodiversity and the destruction of nature is not something that just happens in a distant rainforest thousands of kilometres away; the loss takes place just outside our own door. Right out there, we lose a diversity and wealth that is the prerequisite for our life base and that is so crucial to our quality of life. I think that most politicians who are just peripherally concerned with this area know very well that it is mad. We know very well that countless political declarations of intent have never been followed up by the necessary action. We all know very well that back in 2010 with a Left Minister in the lead, our agreement to the UN Convention on Biodiversity was reaffirmed with the very promise that we, together with the rest of the world, would stop the decline in biodiversity in our own nature by 2020. Today we are writing 2016 and we must honestly say that we are infinitely far from achieving that goal. The situation is that 1 in 5 of the approx. 32,000 known Danish species are on the brink of extinction. In virtually all our natural habitats, whether they are meadows, exaggerations, seas, heaths, shores and forests etc. is nature under severe pressure. It may sound very abstract, but let us take some very concrete examples: Not so many years ago there were several thousand pairs of breeding owls in Denmark. Today there are between 50 and 60 pairs left. The church owl could be the next species to disappear. Not many years ago, several types of butterflies could be seen in forest clearings. Today we have only one of these species of forest clearing left, namely reddish mother-of-pearl butterfly. The others have disappeared, imperceptibly one by one. Not too many years ago you could find the beautiful orchid hill barking herb on many meadows in Denmark; today you can only find it at three locations. Not many years ago, meadow plum was an ordinary flower, everyone knew. Most people today do not know what the flower looks like, because you have to be exceptionally lucky to find a copy. That's how you could go on. Our country becomes unnoticedly poorer every day. This development must have been reversed, and that is what is so positive, namely that there is a broad consensus on it here in the Danish Parliament. I have not yet heard any party say that Denmark should abandon its adherence to the Biodiversity Convention or have any hope of failing to meet the objectives that the European Union has also set, namely that we must stop the decline in a few years' time. That is why, with these motions for resolutions, we want us to start discussing in concrete terms what needs to be done, so that not only do we talk about the ambitious objectives that we are all so much in agreement on, but we also talk about the fact that this task is extremely important. Because we are so intensive an agricultural country, because nature is squeezed out of the open country and lies only as small incoherent spots, because our forestry is primarily about logging and timber production, and because our marine areas are first and foremost used for fishing, nature has a problem, then it does not have its own place and it is not being able to develop and it is being pushed more and more into the defensive. And that is why we see the decline that I have already explained. To stop this decline is the purpose of Enhedslisten's six motions for resolutions, i.e. this natural package. What is central, and this is not something we have come up with, is that we are leaning on extensive research and on what Danish experts say, namely that nature needs more space. Nature needs areas where the primary purpose is not agriculture, but where nature may be served. It is not timber production where nature may be taken into account; it is not fishing where nature may be taken into account. No, these are areas where nature has its own right, where nature must thrive, and where species must also be able to be so. And that is why we have tabled this proposal. As I mentioned earlier, it is not something entirely new in Danish politics. This was, in fact, something that the Socialists mentioned as far back as 2011, namely to introduce a natural zone into the planning law, where the main objective was nature and nothing else. Then we have mentioned various things in the debate, and I would like to repeat how we are going to finance it here, because there is no doubt that it costs some money to look after our nature and ensure that our children and grandchildren also have a rich nature and can experience the same species as we do and can also experience larch songs, and that the vibe announces spring, because it is species that are in severe decline. This requires that we dare to set aside some land for nature and not for production. We're financing 350 million. kr. In our own Finance Act you can go in to find it online and then redispose 150 million. kr. from the proceeds of pesticide taxes for natural purposes. Then the rural programme can also be used for certain natural purposes, not for untouched forests, but for actions in the open country. Here we re-prioritize in the heading of growth and competitiveness, which has been allocated an average of 300 million. kr. in the coming years. In addition, we want to transfer the full modulation that can be transferred from pillar one to pillar two in the agricultural support schemes and use the money we transfer there to support nature. The rapporteur of the Conservatives then said that this would lead to quite unreasonable restrictions on agricultural production. I do not know whether these were exactly the words, but I think that we should also bear in mind all the different professions which are deeply dependent on the good nature of nature, which will be taken into account with such a natural package. This is among other things. fishing in the long term. If we manage to deal with our fisheries resources, then there will be more fish in the future. It is a tourism business where tourists will come and experience our rich nature. So the rapporteur of the Left said that we have already done things, and he asked: what have we not done well enough? I think that what we have not done well enough is that we have not done enough at all. And it has to be said that nature is uncompromising and it cannot be negotiated with. Whatever we think we have done some nature recovery projects here and there, it is obviously not enough because the decline continues. And that is where you have to continue until you are in the finish line, even if you think it is unreasonable, even if you think it is difficult. The nature we need to protect does not depend on what I had with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party and what our personal preferences are, i.e. whether we think it is nice to go for a walk in an untouched natural forest, or whether we prefer a forest that is driven for good, where the trees stand as matches ready to become the plank floors of the future. We know what nature we have in Denmark; we know what it is we are obliged to protect. This is not something we should be making up or discussing. Whether we can make it then is the question, but we have to get started now. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420023030	There is one brief comment from Mrs Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420023035	Thank you. I wish Enhedslisten had written it with funding into these publishers. It would have been possible to deal with them when they were treated. Now we are in the middle of a debate, and then I have tried to write it down and now, of course, I can draw a record of the rapporteur's speech here at some point, but I think it is strange that it is not in the proposal when you have planned how to finance all this. It was just a comment. Then I must also say as a comment that I think it is impressive, so picturesque a language that the rapporteur has. I was thinking about all these Nørrebro kids waking up to vibesong because we've laid out a natural area over in Jutland. Well, I just couldn't get that out of my head, but it's nice. My question should then be about the Biodiversity Convention and the EU's objectives, which will all have to be met by 2020: how many countries does the rapporteur expect to have achieved the targets?
ParlaMint-DK_20160420023134	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420023137	I can assure the rapporteur that I will make every effort to ensure that when I make expensive proposals in the Parliamentary Assembly, we will also have financed it in the Enhedslisten from our draft budget which can be found online. My purpose in presenting this nature package has been to discuss nature policy first and foremost. I do not know how many countries are going to achieve this goal, but is it an argument to say that other countries are having a hard time achieving it, and that is why we should not do it in Denmark? We can see an inventory that the European Union has made, where Denmark is completely at the bottom when it comes to protected nature. Once upon a time, the European Union has got to the brink of not doing enough; we have been criticised by the OECD; there are a lot of people who are looking at us and do not think we are doing enough to protect our nature. That's what these proposals are about.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420023226	Mrs Pia Adelsteen, briefly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420023228	I just wanted to say that I didn't use it as an argument. It was a question, because I assume that when you are so jumped up that everything has to be achieved by 2020, it is not just in Denmark. I mean, it's kind of like now that we have a NEC directive and want clean air. Then it is not just in Denmark, because it does not make sense. We live in a world where clean air crosses national borders. When we talk about fish, they drive across borders or swim they usually do; you can feel it's late now. So that's not an argument. I just wanted to ask you if you were expecting anything from Enhedslisten, because it would be fine if Denmark achieved the goal. I agree with that. But I expect that it is not just fine toast speeches that we are making and that we agree with conventions that it does not matter whether everyone else is observing. That was really just my point.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420023313	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420023315	I think that all countries have a challenge in achieving these objectives, and we have it in Denmark in particular. And when I think it's relevant to discuss it, you might say, in a Danish context, it's because we're elected in Denmark and have a lot of trouble influencing what other countries do besides of course being a pioneer country. It is precisely in relation to nature that it is actually very much our own responsibility. Then we cannot talk very much about these cross-border things. Then that's what we have to do on our own land. And that's exactly what this proposal on nature zones is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420023349	As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420023413	The debate is open, and that is the Minister for the Environment and Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420023446	Thank you for the floor, President. With reference to my introductory speech, I can reject the motions for resolutions on behalf of both the Left and the Government.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420023447	There is one brief comment from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420023455	I assume that the Minister agrees with me that we have a very great challenge, both when it comes to our portrait and our coastal nature, in terms of stopping the decline in biodiversity and turning it into progress. And there are the Natura 2000 protections as they are today, not at all enough, because then we would start seeing results. So my question to the Minister will be: what can the Minister point to of initiatives to ensure that we achieve the huge task ahead of us, which we are now very far from being able to achieve?
ParlaMint-DK_20160420023531	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420023532	Thank you for the questions. When we present our nature package, we will, of course, signal what we imagine, including in terms of biodiversity and the objectives of the sea area. But Denmark has already identified large areas in the seas around us, and the protected areas are one of the things that we are constantly working on in relation to the commitments we have internationally seen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420023556	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420023557	That is quite right, and it may just illustrate the scale of the problem or the complexity of the task. For those who understand this and go out and look at the nature we need to protect tell very clearly that we are not going to achieve the initiatives that are now in place. So if we take the commitment to biodiversity seriously, we will have to point out some additional initiatives, otherwise we will reach 2020 and will be able to see that we have not achieved the target. Natura 2000 does not in itself mean that the European Union takes responsibility for achieving these objectives. We have to do this ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420023633	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420023634	Well, the government takes such responsibility to live up to the things the government has put on the agenda. And when, for example, we get there. If we are dealing with biodiversity, including in the case of the sea, then there are efforts that have been made in the past which will take years before have an effect. In some cases, as far as the sea is concerned, there is talk of as much as 100 years of perspective. And then, by 2020, you will not see if the effect has been achieved. That is absolutely right.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420023702	Then it's Mrs. Lea Wermelin.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420023706	Thank you. Now it was a very short statement of reasons that the Minister made here, but I can fortunately remember the last time the Minister was on. There the Minister addressed the river basin management plans, what I was actually happy about, and I would really like to ask a question. Because we have, of course, been waiting for what is happening to them, and the Minister said, if I am not mistaken, that he would make something on that point later this year. It was such a rather broad wording, so I think there are many of us who would appreciate it if the Minister could come a little closer.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420023742	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420023743	Thank you. The Minister can't do that. But I will do so later this year, and the rapporteur can look forward to it, because it is an exciting work that the government takes very seriously. And what I think should be borne in mind in relation to the river basin management plans is that if we do not get water away from our land, we risk hampering biodiversity. That is why the government is among other things. Aware of the fact that the river basin management plans also contribute to water being taken away from our land.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420023812	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420023815	I don't know how much I'm looking forward to. For the former minister had a very close pair with some that we do not think is so sustainable in that particular area. In any case, however, we think it is urgent to bring forward those river basin plans. That is why I would just like to urge the Minister to come forward with them and rather quickly than later this year.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420023843	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420023845	It's an invitation I'd like to sign for. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420023849	Thank you, Minister. Then we start with the rapporteur's series. First, Mrs Lea Wermelin, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420023910	Thank you. After all, we have now come to discuss biodiversity in Denmark's marine waters and on our coasts. Just as it was discussed just now, we agree that there is a need for ambitious action for Denmark's nature. This also applies to marine nature. We have many coastlines, lakes, streams, which are nature areas of great value and which we must protect, and therefore both areas, both sea areas and coasts, were included in our Nature Plan Denmark. Without having to go through it all meticulously, I would just like to point out a few of the things that we brought with us. We suggested, among other things: based on Denmark's Maritime Strategy for 2012, a programme of action for the sea was established, which was due to enter into force this year. The action programme was intended to contribute to the achievement of good environmental status in the Danish marine areas and to protect these special habitats as soft bottom communities, such as Enhedslisten. points out in the proposal. We also started a survey of the extraction of raw materials, just as we secured a ceiling on the annual amount of recovery and provided a legal basis for banning the extraction of raw materials in demarcated areas, if this proved necessary. It is an effort that we actually moved the Left for this autumn, but here too the government seems a bit foot-timing, and it should also be a call for us to get an information on where it stands right now. Then we also proposed a mapping of reefs, bubble reefs and sandbanks in Natura 2000 sites. It was completed a year ago. And then we have been told that it will be today that we can be told that the government is presenting the revised Natura 2000 plans. Unfortunately, it is slightly delayed, and that is a pity because there are some very good projects in it. An example could be the project at Stavns Fjord on Samsø, which is precisely about the expansion and restoration of beaches, meadows and habitats for coastal birds. The water plans should also have entered into force. I also asked the Minister about this a moment ago, and we can then be told that it will be later this year. But here, too, we think that the Left is too slow, as was the last time they were in government, when we had to clean up the mess afterwards. We think that history repeats itself with a Left that is in the process of compromising 30 years of effort for a cleaner water environment. In any case, we intend to keep them in their ears about it. With regard to the EU directive on maritime spatial planning in Danish legislation and the preparation of land use plans for the sea by 2021, it has just been dealt with first in this Chamber. But there too we are actually concerned that the right balance has not been struck. We are concerned that the new growth potential at sea will be exploited at the expense of the environment if it is not addressed. So, in a way, we agree with the Enhedslisten on the need for a government that takes the protection of our seas and coasts very seriously. We do not agree with all the proposals, all the measures that exist. As I also said before, our line is to resurrect Nature Plan Denmark, and we would like to work with Enhedslisten on that. So I have also promised to welcome the Radicals and to say that they share many of the intentions, but do not support the two proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420024236	There is a brief comment from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420024239	Thank you. There is no doubt that there is a great deal we can meet about, but there is no doubt that the level of ambition, in relation to what the rapporteur is proposing, will probably have to be lifted if we are to get there, which is what we all want, namely to stop the decline in nature and biodiversity. I would like to know whether there are any individual elements on which the rapporteur can point out that we might be able to meet, for example. this thing about making a little bigger marine national parks; to look at the fact that there are larger areas, for example. in our inland waters, which are so devastated by many years of trawling; stop mining in larger areas; is there some of what the rapporteur could come up with and say that we would really like to work together on this at some point?
ParlaMint-DK_20160420024327	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420024328	We always want to make Enhedslisten happy here also quarter to three at night. And perhaps I think that the rapporteur just missed that point with the extraction of raw materials, because I actually touched on that as one of the areas in which we have at least proposed a number of things when we were in government, precisely in terms of both mapping and securing a ceiling in terms of annual recovery, and we have actually moved the Left for it as late as the autumn. Perhaps we can then get an answer from the rapporteur of the Left here a little later on on how it works together. But that is where we want to work together.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420024408	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420024409	However, in relation to the extraction of raw materials we did not quite achieve our goal, we can say that in order to get it removed from some of our most valuable natural or marine areas in the Sound, it would be the most important areas to have the extraction of raw materials removed, that is to say, simply to have it removed and moved further away to areas which are not of such importance in terms of nature and nature. So that is something that the Socialists have now moved on in relation to securing the Øresund, and what about bottom trawling, which we know is one of the major problems in relation to marine nature and biodiversity? Could we imagine a little more coherent areas where we gave nature peace to restore itself?
ParlaMint-DK_20160420024447	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420024448	We believe that it should be in the right order, and that is why we were quite satisfied with what we presented when we were in government, where we said just now that we need to look at this. What are the consequences of this? Are there areas, as the rapporteur then points out, where it can be said that nature can no longer cope with this? Then we made this legal basis so that, where necessary, we could prohibit the extraction of raw materials. But that is the kind of feedback that we have yet to get, and it has to come first after all.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420024519	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. This is Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420024531	Thank you. Again, I would just like to refer to my rapporteur's speech to B 42. The Danish People's Party cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420024538	There is a brief comment from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420024542	I assume that the Danish People's Party agrees with the objective we have of halting the decline in nature and biodiversity by 2020. For our oceans it looks really ugly. Does the Danish People's Party have any idea how we can intervene here because it is our task and our responsibility to do so in relation to coming to the rescue of nature?
ParlaMint-DK_20160420024608	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420024610	Very briefly, no. And when I say it very briefly, it is because I have not been sitting and making big plans for the sea area, because I am not a biologist. For example, we will be able to make it to the next stage. together with Minister for the Environment Kirsten Brosbøl worked on mining, where some areas were laid out, it was actually something that I thought was positive that she did. Some areas were laid out where it was said that there must be extraction of raw materials and then we leave other areas alone. I think it is good to set overall targets, including for the sea area, but it is not the case that we are sitting with three biologists in the Danish People's Party and finding out how nature effort should be, what it costs and how we finance it. We haven't made it that far.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420024654	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420024655	I'm not a biologist either. But what we have, fortunately, is extensive reports where those who know about this point quite specifically what it is that needs to be done. We are not going to the moon; we are not going to great, difficult things, which we have no idea how to do on the contrary. What we need to do in order to achieve this objective is actually very concrete and it is very well described, and that is what we have tried to summarize in these proposals. That is why I am just urging that if you shoot our proposal, which you can of course politically disagree with, then you come on the field yourself with what you think it will take to achieve the goal. 'Cause nobody's coming to save this for us. We have to take responsibility in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420024741	Although it is late in the evening, we have some speaking time which I think we should try to keep to everyone. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420024749	I shall try to reply very briefly, as I did on the first proposal, to the nature package that is coming. We're listening to the government's proposal. We are prepared to make compromises in the blue block, too, if you want to follow the line we are setting. And at the risk of this turning into a long discussion, I would say that without wishing to demean anything, I am in favour of us making wise decisions, that is. on something that we have money for, and something that makes sense, not only for biodiversity, but for the greater part. Because I think it's all connected.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420024826	Thank you to Mrs Pia Adelsteen. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr President. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420024832	Thank you. In this connection, I would like to say quite quickly that I shall refer to my general remarks to B 42, and I shall reject the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420024845	There is a brief comment from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420024849	I think the rapporteur heard what I also asked the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. It is a good thing that these proposals are being shot down and said: at least that is not what we believe in in the Liberal Alliance. However, we firmly believe that we must work to achieve the goal of halting the decline in nature and biodiversity by 2020. We just keep a secret, or we haven't taken a position, or we won't take a position on what we'll put in place. Where does the Liberal Alliance stand here? If we are in favour of the goal, then at some point in our political life we must point out some means.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420024922	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420024923	Thank you. I think I could see from this little watch in front of me that I spent less than 10 seconds on my rapporteur's speech. Yet Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding was fast enough to press the button. It's actually impressive. We recognize, of course, the international commitments, and we have actually chosen some of the same instruments here too, I believe, as Enhedslisten points out in this proposal. In the nature package negotiations, we have suggested to the Minister that a little focus could be placed on stone reefs and the planting of eelgrass and such things. So these are, in fact, the same instruments that it seems to me that Enhedslisten has put forward in this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420025010	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420025012	Will the Liberal Alliance also be open to leaving more coherent natural areas at peace in the marine areas, for that is what scientists and experts are calling for? Nature needs peace in some areas in order to rebuild itself and to be a good basis for future fish stocks, so that future fishermen also have something to fish.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420025037	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420025038	I am certainly not opposed to the need for more coherence in the areas at sea. I must admit that I have not studied the map of the 17-18 per cent, as I recall. of the areas of the sea which are classified as protected nature. But there may well be a point on the Enhedslisten side that some of the areas should be more coherent.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420025105	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr President. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420025118	I can also be brief and refer to my rapporteur's speech from the first motion for a resolution here in the series of proposals and say that we support the proposal. We think it is a good idea to focus on the coasts and close waters, because that is where we already have a wild nature, and we need to work on it and protect it. So we are in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420025147	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move forward in the rapporteur's line and the next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420025205	We are also in the SF in favour of this proposal. 17.7% of the Danish marine area is now classified as part of the Natura 2000 network. The SF considers that the use of bottom towed fishing gear in 90 marine Natura 2000 areas should be prohibited. In addition to reefs, biogene reefs and other habitat types in Natura 2000 sites should be protected against adverse effects. The necessary instruments for both species and habitat types should be incorporated into the nature plans by 2020. Of course, it can be difficult to reach 100 per cent. in goal, as the mapping is not yet complete, but it is here that we in the SF believe that the main effort should take place in the short term. The other sub-objectives of the Enhedslisten's proposals are generally also favourable to us. The strain of nutrients has been a long-standing struggle which continues with the Left Government's agricultural policy. I think the Left hopes that the re-establishment of reefs will mean that agriculture will have to reduce less. Apart from the fact that it is a wrong approach not to reduce nitrogen pollution from land, so far there is little evidence of a large nitrogen effect from stone reefs. However, a great deal of biodiversity can be created through the restoration of stone reefs. The Enhedslisten does not mention microplastic and other plastic contamination, but of course we know Enhedslisten's position on this. SF has put forward a B proposal on plastic pollution, which would also play well with this. And I do not know whether the rapporteur is listening, but I can at least reply to an earlier question that was put, that we in the SF have made a proposal earlier on a marine national park in Øresund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420025349	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line, and this is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420025400	Thank you. With reference to my speech at B 42, I can also say that the Conservative People's Party does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420025408	There is a brief comment from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420025413	I'm glad I made it. I can see that as well as the rapporteur. I'm just thinking, we agree on the target. Where can we meet about the means? It's not like we're quite determined that it's gonna be exactly like this. After all, it is no secret that we have informed ourselves of what experts and researchers recommend we should do to stop the loss of biodiversity in precisely these habitat types. But we are open to if others who share the goal with us can make other offers. So that will then be my question to the rapporteur of the Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420025448	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420025450	So the question was where we could meet and how we could finance it. Yes, that is a good question, and the rapporteur and I must continue to discuss it. There are some of these initiatives that do not cost money, and we can at least discuss that directly for the Treasury, but we must take the elements individually. And then you just have to say that when you have to finance something like that, it happens through the Finance Act. In other words, there are not so many other ways of financing an effort, so it also requires that we are willing to go in and take responsibility and help to make the budget coherent and that we give priority to the funds for it. I find it difficult to see that the Enhedslisten and the Conservative People's Party will be included in the same financial law in the coming years, but one can of course be surprised.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420025536	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420025537	After all, this is a very serious matter, and it is so fascinating that we all, who are here tonight, agree on the objective we must work towards. Then it should also be possible for us to have a discussion of what funds we are going to use, uncontested by the fact that we might not agree on a financial law together tomorrow, and as I also explained when I was in the chair with the previous proposal, there is already a great deal of money in the agricultural system that could be spent on supporting it here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420025607	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420025609	I know that Enhedslisten's rapporteur wants to pull as much money out of the agricultural system as possible in order to move them elsewhere. In my speech, which I referred to, I pointed to the situation in the Øresund region and mentioned what we saw of opportunities there in relation to the coasts. There are going to be some planned legislative negotiations where we have also set out some priorities in relation to the protection of coastal landscapes. This is something we are negotiating in the negotiating room. All honor and respect for it. This is certainly not something that is adopted in connection with a motion for a resolution in the Danish Parliament at 9 a.m. 2.56.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420025642	Then we have finished with the rapporteurs and then we go on to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420025708	Thank you. The two proposals we are now considering are B 43, proposals for a parliamentary resolution to stop the loss of biodiversity in Denmark's marine waters, and B 46, proposals for a parliamentary resolution to stop the loss of biodiversity on Denmark's coasts. Denmark has more than 100,000 km 2 The majority of Denmark's surface area is thus hidden under water, and the problems experienced and experienced by the seas over time have largely avoided public attention. Political attention has mainly been limited to isolated serious incidents such as oxygen loss, storm tide or fish stock collapse, and unfortunately the problems of the sea are often only debated to the extent that there are obvious economic consequences related to business interests. But nature in the sea is under pressure and marine diversity is in decline, and this is due to a large number of man-made influences. This is because we emit more nitrogen than nature can handle, because fishing is extremely intensive, and this is because the seabed is being towed almost as intensively as the land is ploughed. But also the extraction of raw materials and the discharge of environmental foreign substances are everyday in the sea and help to put the portrait under serious pressure. Despite our political agreement on the protection of biodiversity, there is a general decline, and I think we will have to deal with this when we are so close to the goal we should have worked towards for very many years, which we have reaffirmed and promised each other back in 2010, and since then it has only gone the wrong way in all of Denmark's natural habitats. To some extent, it must call for thought in this House. In relation to the sea, we see that eelgrass and seaweed belts no longer grow in as deep water as before. Algeum blooms due to nitrogen pollution cause oxygen loss, and since the mid-1990s the diversity of bottom-living animals in parts of Kattegat has about halved. More stocks of fish have been drastically reduced and some have almost completely disappeared, just as more populations of breeding and overwintering birds are on strong and worrying declines. What is important in this context is that Denmark is important for a large number of European migratory birds dependent on the Danish coastal waters, it is simply here that they find food, and those species have also shown a worrying decline in recent years as our nature no longer thrives. If we are also to have a healthy marine environment in the future to support the fish stocks on which the fishermen of the future must live and which can support a rich nature rich in experiences and a bird's life in a special international class, we need to focus our attention on portrait. We need to deal with how we deal with a fishery whose over-exploitation of resources has destroyed portland and depleted stocks. We have to deal with how we deal with agricultural pressures on portland through the excessive nutrient emissions and the extraction of raw materials, which include: destroy important spawning areas. What I think is important to say is that while in the Enhedslisten we absolutely believe that nature has a right in itself, nature is also what supports a large number of other professions, which we must also take into account all those professions that depend on a clean nature and ecosystems that are connected. It is about tourism, for example. on fishing. When we in the Enhedslisten have tabled this motion for a resolution, B 43, to stop the loss of marine biodiversity, it is because we believe that it is about to be the last call in terms of launching the initiatives to make sure that we just reach the target by 2020. In our proposal, we have tried to be so close to what the researchers and experts not only generally in nature and biodiversity, but also those who are actually experts in the Danish nature and biodiversity on the coasts and at portrait point to the need. What they are saying is that we need to set up large, coherent marine national parks where a particular type of fishing can no longer take place, and that is fishing with bottom-up gear. You say that we need to reduce agricultural nitrogen emissions because our vulnerable coastal nature cannot cope with it. This may seem unreasonable, because in Germany they have a different nature, so there they have to derive more, but there we only have a different and much more vulnerable nature in Denmark. They also point out that we must take action against a wide range of environmentally dangerous substances. Furthermore, we will need to take action against mining in particular areas, especially where there are important habitats, that is, where fish stocks depend on the nature being very good, so that they can reproduce themselves and so that there can be strong coherent fish stocks in the future as well. I would like to thank the parties for their consideration of B 43. I still think we are a step away from having a dialogue about what we can actually meet about. In fact, I think it seems a little absurd that we say to each other that we agree on the objectives, but that we cannot start to have a dialogue on how we can also agree on the means across the Folketing. In relation to biodiversity on the coasts, the second motion for a resolution we are debating here, namely B 46 to halt the decline in biodiversity on the coasts of Denmark, I think it is very important to state that Denmark's coasts are absolutely unique in the international context. It is the coasts that make up most of Denmark's wild and unspoiled nature, and it is a very special natural feature of Denmark, which is valued incredibly high, both by Danes and by tourists. Together with the shallow coastal areas, which are also very special for Denmark, the beaches and coastal dunes contain a large and indeed in a European context a unique biological diversity, which we in Denmark have a very special responsibility to protect. The Danish beach area has been reduced by more than 50%. within the last few hundred years. This is mainly due to the fact that we have taken a great many of these lands in production. Despite this, Denmark contains approx. 36% of the total area of beaches throughout Europe, and it says that we have something very special here, something that people come here to experience, but also that it is something so unique that we have a very special responsibility to protect it. A similar picture accounts for our coastal dunes, where we also have 84 per cent in Denmark. of the total area of the dune in Europe. And again, that is why it is so worrying that precisely the natural habitat types that exist in our country and where we have a responsibility and where we have something that is special international are in such a serious decline, we have to respond to and we have to stop the damage before it is too late. Motion for a resolution B 46 is about taking that responsibility seriously, and we must listen to the prominent biodiversity scientists who very specifically point out that what we need to ensure is varied grazing on the remaining beaches. We need to convert coastal agricultural land from cultivation to nature-based grazing and drainage, so that nature can get the land back. We do not get around the fact that one of the main reasons why we have such major problems with our nature and biodiversity in Denmark is that we have too large areas under ploughs, and these are areas we have to take back from agriculture and surrender to nature. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420030637	There is a brief comment on Mrs Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420030641	Thank you. This was in relation to the rapporteur's comment that the fishermen had fished the stocks down. In fact, I think that was the rapporteur's expression. I should just like to ask whether the rapporteur disagrees with the biologists who sit in the European Union and distribute fishing quotas. I have been in the Committee on European Affairs for six years now, and that is at least where the mandate is being given. At that time it was to the Minister for Food, but at this time it is to the Minister for the Environment and Food who then goes down and negotiates fishing quotas on behalf of Denmark. But there are biologists who assess how much they can actually afford to fish. So what does the rapporteur mean by the depletion of stocks?
ParlaMint-DK_20160420030724	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420030726	If we look at such a valuable area as Kattegat, we don't have many decades to go before there was cod before there was haddock before there was stonebite before there were a whole lot of fish that Danish fishermen could make a living from catching. Today there is only lobster fishing left. That is because the other stocks have been fished down.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420030752	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420030753	I understand that the rapporteur believes that biologists have been wrong. That's so fair. At one point, a minister made a statement and I am not aware of what an agreement was made with Sweden, at least, that it was not allowed to fish in an area of Kattegat. But Germany and other countries did not respect that, so they just fished there. How, then, does the rapporteur think this problem should be resolved? If biologists are not trusted with regard to the fishing quotas that are being given, how does the rapporteur feel about solving the problem? Because it has to go through the European Union since we are a member of the European Union and there are countries other than Denmark fishing in the Kattegat.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420030833	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420030835	Quotas are a very good idea, but it is not always the biological recommendations that are followed to the letter. It is also a negotiation. It is a political balance, and it is also a question of whether we can agree on what biologists say. And then it is clear that sometimes you can be wrong as a biologist.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420030854	Sir. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420030858	Thank you. I just managed to get in touch when I heard the rapporteur say, I think we should take back the farmland and give it to nature. Does the rapporteur not recognise the ownership of agricultural land by individual landowners, the individual farmer?
ParlaMint-DK_20160420030923	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420030925	Yes, I do, and what I would suggest we do is that we buy back these lands or make attractive land distributions, which is also mentioned in some of our motions for resolutions where we can give farmers other land so that we can convert to natural areas. But what is quite obvious to anyone who follows this area is that if we are to stop the decline of nature, nature must have more space, and it will be at the expense of agriculture in the open country.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420030954	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420030957	Thank you. It is a good thing to hear some proposals on this, too, and I think we could perhaps have a dialogue on land distribution, replacement nature, etc. I would just like to ask if Enhedslisten is thinking about expropriation into what the rapporteur calls buying farmland.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420031019	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420031021	We really have a lot of different proposals for this. At the moment, there are also farms that go bankrupt, which ultimately end up in the agricultural bank. We also propose that we take them over more and get them into the hands of the Community and convert some of these farms into natural areas. So there is, of course, a wide range of different proposals that can be applied. In the first place, then, it is our hope that by means of voluntary agreements with the farmers who are buying up some of the bankrupt residents who are, we will be able to convert agricultural land to nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420031058	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is over. I propose that the proposals be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420031113	The debate is open. Minister for the Environment and Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420031145	Thank you for that, President. Thank you to the Enhedslisten also for these two motions for resolutions which the Government and the Left Party can reject with reference to my introductory ministerial speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420031159	There is a brief comment from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420031202	I'd like to ask you something. These habitat types, especially excessive and heath, but also meadows need care. It is a very big problem today that the farmer keeps the animals on stables so that there is no one to care for these natural areas. Can we expect in the upcoming nature package that this issue will be addressed so that we can take care of the nature that is so badly needed right now?
ParlaMint-DK_20160420031231	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420031233	Thank you for the question. Yes, there is no doubt that the government has a desire to promote the possibility of nature care in Denmark, and the Natura 2000 plans I present in 4 hours and 35 minutes out on Amager will also include increased nature care, also in contiguous areas. So we are so concerned that the farmer as a natural care provider can contribute to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420031302	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420031304	Now we are waiting very eagerly for the nature package and, of course, we all hope to be invited to negotiations on this package. It is clear that farm animals can only cope with part of that care. There are also a great many researchers and experts who suggest that we should try to get wild animals out. That's what you do. has done on Bornholm, where bisons have been exposed, who are perfectly formidable in caring for nature. Can we also expect in the upcoming nature package that there will be an opportunity to take such initiatives, so that we take some natural areas where we focus on an even better nature care of even higher quality?
ParlaMint-DK_20160420031335	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420031338	I personally think that this is a very exciting project on Bornholm, which I am going to visit next month. When the government presents the nature package, you will see what we have in mind, and if there are some parties that have a particular desire for special species as natural carers, then it will certainly be one of the things that could be included in discussions. It certainly will.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420031402	There is a brief comment from Mrs Lea Wermelin.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420031406	Thank you. One of the things that the Minister mentioned last time we discussed biodiversity was the issue of drainage. You'll be preoccupied with that in a nature package like this. When the blue block was in the opposition... where, after all, we like them better... you put together a proposal to change the law on watercourses. And there is no doubt that we think that the couple that the former Minister had with Sustainable Agriculture in relation to crop cutting was very problematic. But I would really like to ask the Minister whether the nature package envisages looking at the law on watercourses and amending it as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420031454	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420031457	No, in the first place, the Liberal Alliance has announced a motion for a resolution on increased porridge cutting. We will discuss this next week, as far as I remember, here in the Danish Parliament, and I will also state what the government's position is on crop cutting. Yesterday or Monday I was at Gudenåen, and one of the things we saw there was that if the water doesn't get away well enough, there are bouncings up to the brinks. This can lead to brink falls, where nitrogen or phosphorus are then released to the aquatic environment, as well as doing something about biodiversity in the areas up to the creeks. That is why crop cutting and getting water transport is very important, but it is certainly one of the things that we will also be discussing when we have the debate on the motion for a resolution from the Liberal Alliance next week.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420031553	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420031555	Okay, well, it was kind of a boat-and-and-a-no-or, but I still understand it as if it's some of the things you want to look at. We are not, in fact, opposed to it either. We think both considerations should be there. One can be inspired by e.g.: the Aalborg model, which we think solves the task very well. But since the Minister is not going to answer that, I have to come up with something else to ask. Some of the things that have been worrying about section 3 areas have been what should then come instead of. Are we going to make some compensatory measures in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20160420031630	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420031633	Thank you. Just to add an additional comment to the crop-cutting issue, I would like to say that the government has set up a committee of experts to make recommendations on porridge cutting, and we have also sent shepherd letters to the country's municipalities to deal with it. So in this way there is a strong focus on it, also in accordance with good environmental status and environmental objectives etc. On the three areas: we have dealt with this earlier today in the Danish Parliament, and there the government, together with the blue parties, has lifted the ban that the government of that time intended to impose, but that does not change the situation, because the ban of the then government would not apply until 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420031713	Thank you, Minister. We are embarking on the rapporteur's round. We'll start with Mrs. Lea Wermelin.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420031729	Now we have reached the issue of biodiversity in overland and heaths and in fresh meadows and wetlands. We also felt that these were crucial areas of action. That is also why we had it in Nature Plan Denmark, and without repeating myself too much, I would like to say that this is also why we are annoyed that it is some of the things the government does not want to do. We still believe that overall targeted action is needed to ensure viable stocks of plants and animal species and varied and robust natural areas. We also believe that § 3 areas, which are precisely beaches, lakes, streams, excessive heaths, meadows, are crucial to biodiversity in Denmark. We agree with Enhedslisten in that. In line with the recommendations of the Nature and Agriculture Commission, we also introduced this ban on spraying and fertilizing the § 3 protected natural areas when we sat in the ministerial chair. The ban has the blue block, as the Minister also said, rolled back as part of their campaign against the green initiatives. We have not really heard what the government is going to do instead. We can now hear that something might come with the nature package, but I want to see it before I believe it. In addition to saving § 3 areas, we also set aside funds for a special effort for larger Danish lakes. We wanted to establish wetlands on agricultural land that would reduce nitrogen and phosphorus inputs to the aquatic environment in order to avoid algae growth and oxygen loss and to create better ecological conditions for wild plants and animal species, and we also ensured a subsidy scheme to take carbon-free low bottom areas for nature. So in the Social Democratic Party we have taken a great many initiatives in this area, and many of them we have actually also had the support of the Enhedslisten. On last year's Finance Act, we made a partial agreement of 1 billion. kr. We share the concern that the government and the blue bloc are forgetting the balance, which we have talked a great deal about here today, between agriculture and environmental policy. This is among other things. I also asked the Minister about the cutting of porridge, which is also mentioned in the proposal here and which I just asked him about. We do not think that we should run the close pair with Sustainable Agriculture. We do not believe it to be very sustainable, but we would like to be inspired by, among other things. The Aalborg model, which I also mentioned before. So just to conclude, I would like to say that we would like to put the bar high in order to do the best in terms of excesses, heaths, meadows and wetlands. We would like to discuss this further, but we believe that we were in the process of working with Nature Plan Denmark. As before, I should like to welcome the Radicals and say that they share the intention but do not support the proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420032020	There is a brief comment from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420032024	Thank you. When I listen to the rapporteur, I clearly get the feeling that we are in agreement. So what my question is is what is in these proposals that the rapporteur and the Social Democrats cannot support.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420032040	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420032042	But I did not necessarily say that there is something we cannot support. I mean, the last part was on behalf of the Radicals, and it has to be on their account. In fact, what I said was that we would like to put the bar high, that we have actually carried out a lot of this together with the Enhedslisten, and that we would like to be involved in discussing how best we can do this and sort of ensure that we get back to the Nature Plan Denmark's track. I do not think that is necessarily contrary to what the rapporteur has just said.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420032107	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420032110	Should I then understand that the Social Democrats actually support B 45 and B 44?
ParlaMint-DK_20160420032118	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420032120	I think the rapporteur needs to understand more that this is at least something we would like to discuss. We think it is very good to have this discussion and we have been very concerned that the ban is now being abolished in relation to section 3 areas. Whether this is exactly what is in the Enhedslisten's proposal and which was also included in the Nature Plan Denmark, we will then have to discuss during the committee procedure. And that's kind of what I was trying to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420032144	Thank you to Mrs Lea Wermelin. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mrs Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420032152	Thank you. To make a long story brief, I simply have to refer to my rapporteur's speech to B 42 and say that the Danish People's Party cannot endorse the proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420032205	A brief comment was made by Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420032211	Yes, because I have to say when we are discussing nature, the nature of Denmark, which is in decline, which we have a responsibility to take care of, and where exactly the species and habitat types we are discussing now are so well known to Denmark, it is the open heaths, it is the meadows, it is excessive that then the Danish People's Party must also be interested in making an ambitious effort. It is quite fair not to be able to support the Enhedslisten's proposal, but I have to ask whether you have taken any kind of position on what it is that you want to point to instead, or whether you just want to let things go wrong and then cross your fingers so that our children and grandchildren can also experience butterflies and the birds that are now linked to these habitat types.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420032302	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420032304	Once again, I would like to congratulate the graphic language of the Enhedslisten's rapporteur. I'm very excited about that. I would just like to say that when I stand in this Chamber today, it is to discuss the proposals of the Enhedslisten. It is not to discuss whether the Danish People's Party will bring anything. I mentioned earlier that we do not have large natural packages where we look only at nature. I mean, it's one-sided. You have to see things in a context. These are proposals that Enhedslisten has put forward without, by the way, describing the details of funding other than in the rapporteur's speech to B 42, and I think that is too bad because it makes us not have the opportunity to sit and see whether this is something we want to be involved in at all. And may I not just repeat Mrs Mette Abildgaard's words: I have something difficult to see the Danish People's Party and Enhedslisten make a financial bill together.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420032356	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420032358	Yeah, me too. But now we agree on the goal. If the Danish People's Party said that it did not care about the objective to which we have committed Denmark in the Biodiversity Convention and that it did not give a damn about what other European countries expect of us so well. Then you can say that you have no natural policy and it is fair that you have no natural policy. But if, as a party, you think that we should take that responsibility, then I do not think it is too much to ask that a minimum of reflection on how to get there has also been made. It is, after all, a joint commitment and it is a joint responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420032430	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420032432	I would now like to say quite quickly that the Danish People's Party is not the great supporters of conventions. I think everyone knows that. It is not a question of conventions that we should do something. Do we in the Danish People's Party want to promote biodiversity? Yes, of course we do. But we are not dependent on a convention to do so. It has nothing to do with a convention, on the contrary. It has something to do with whether we think it's good or bad. However, as I started by saying: if we are to promote biodiversity, we have to do it wisely. I don't mean to patronize you that I say it like that. I do not know how else to express it, but we need to look at several aspects.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420032508	We thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. It's sir. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420032515	Thank you. I will also try to make this brief, if possible, and refer to my general comments on motion for a resolution B 42 and then reject the two motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420032532	There is a brief comment from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420032536	This time I actually managed to press the button while the rapporteur was on his way up the stairs to be on the safe side. I would like to dwell a little on the issue of wetlands and watercourses, because I have noticed how the Liberal Alliance has identified itself in that area, precisely that we need more crop cutting, that we need to clean the watercourses more up • the rapporteur must correct me if I am wrong. Can we agree that there should be a significant number of watercourses in Denmark that aim to support fish stocks, recreational fishing, nature experiences and life? Because there is a huge contradiction between being a drainage channel for agriculture on the one hand and having to be cleaned up and, on the other hand, being a basis for fishing and natural experiences.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420032623	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420032625	Perhaps I do not know whether there is a huge difference, as Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding here says. However, as I also said in my general remarks on B 42, I believe that a balance can be struck between use and protection. What Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding may be referring to, and which has been mentioned previously, also by the Minister, is a motion for a resolution on watercourse maintenance coming up next week and where we in the Liberal Alliance believe that there has been too little focus on water drainage in the Danish watercourses.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420032709	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420032711	There may be a link between use and protection when it comes to use for fishing and protection in relation to nature experiences. But being a drainage channel for agriculture, where you remove aquatic plants, where you remove spawning sites, where you remove everything that supports life so that the water can run faster away from the farmer's fields, stands in total contrast to the other considerations. And I would just like to take part in this debate, whether or not the Liberal Alliance can also support the fact that there must be areas where they are wetlands, where it is nature and where it is fishing, which is the main purpose of our rivers and our streams.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420032747	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420032749	Indeed, to some extent I can agree with the rapporteur of the Enhedslisten. There is already a great deal of work going on and, moreover, it has been extended in relation to planting land for wetlands in particular. In fact, I think we will address that further in the context of the nature package negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420032817	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. It's sir. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420032822	I can just say quite briefly from the alternative that we support the two motions for resolutions with reference to my first rapporteur's speech on the whole nature package.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420032837	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. This is Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420032848	Then we have come to the two proposals to stop the loss of biodiversity in either excessive or heat and in fresh meadows and wetlands. First of all, with regard to B 44, I have a question for Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, and it is quite clear. How are they supposed to be 17 percent? in B 42 is seen in relation to B 44? In other words, does the proposal operate within the 17 per cent that must be the natural zone of the planning law? That was a specific question. In the SF, we propose that we, as well as the Enhedslisten's proposals, strengthen efforts for natural quality up to 2027 both within and outside the Natura 2000 areas and also for species not covered by the Habitats Directive but included in the Red List. For us in the SF, it is crucial that concrete time limits are established and concrete measures adopted, which we are sure will work, and this is most certainly done in a natural or biodiversity law. However, what is crucial for us is targeting both the UN and the EU objectives of halting the decline by 2020 and turning it to progress up to 2027, which one can choose, because in 2021-2027 we will have to implement the last steps to achieve with the Water Framework Directive. Moreover, natural areas and natural quality could contribute to achieving the water framework targets, not least in relation to nitrogen and phosphorus. While I still have a little vote left, I would also like to say a little about B 45. We are also positive about this. We are also very concerned that natural watercourses are laid down by law to contribute to climate adaptation. The best way to do this is to understand from the proposal that Enhedslisten agrees with it by releasing these ridges to the natural dynamics of the stream, so that you can stop farming in the ridge. This then means that the equivalent objective of the river basin law on drainage and nature can be implemented while at the same time helping to prevent floods in coastal towns, etc. This is something that is often heard by the right wing too, but with other means, I think one can say. Climate adaptation by giving the creeks this ridge back and thus ensuring that the creeks can contain seasonal rainfall, will have a positive climate effect and will withhold nutrients and will also provide increased natural quality. However, we are positive about both proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420033150	Despite that, there is a brief comment from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420033155	It's kind of more of an answer. What we have proposed with a natural zone in relation to the percentage distribution is directly taken from the Aichi objectives, which are, after all, under the Biodiversity Convention, which we have said we want to introduce. It is clear that the other motions for resolutions relate to that. These are the natural areas that we want to bind together there in order to reach the total percentage, one can say as we have committed ourselves to, and which I assume all the parties of the Folketing support, but which are then reproduced in our B 42.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420033227	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420033232	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420033238	The questioner? Let's move on. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420033246	Thank you. With reference to my previous comments on the B42, we also reject the two motions for resolutions tabled by the Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420033255	There is a brief comment from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420033300	Thank you. I would like to dwell a little on the issue of wetlands and watercourses, because I have noted that the rapporteur is interested in this. I must also assume that the rapporteur is interested in the need for more living watercourses and that we have to sign up for the huge effort of volunteers to secure living fish stocks in watercourses. I also see that the Conservative People's Party is somewhat challenged in the blue block in terms of ensuring ambitious targets for the streams. That is why I cannot help asking: what is it in our resolution that leans on expert recommendations, as such, that the Conservative People's Party cannot support?
ParlaMint-DK_20160420033343	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420033351	Thank you, President. I stand by and hesitate to read my notes. I have noted here that one element is to take low-level areas and let them pass from agriculture to nature. I guess that costs some money, for example. We do not have funding in place, and so it goes without saying that we cannot support that resolution. But that doesn't change the fact that we think it can be an interesting tool. We would very much like to do something for the Danish streams. We are very concerned about this. This was done in the context of the agricultural package when it was negotiated. We wanted to keep as many miles of watercourses as possible in these water plans. This is quite crucial for us, and I believe that the rapporteur will also see this when we are discussing watercourses in Parliament, probably next week, I think I have heard mention.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420033435	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420033436	Is it to be understood that the measures proposed are in agreement with the rapporteur's view, so that this is only a matter of financing? Would the rapporteur in his own economic plans be able to find funding to take low-level areas out of production? By the way, we are already doing so in several places, so it is not something that has flunked down from the sky. It is already happening, and it is unproductive agricultural land that emits greenhouse gases in a very large scale compared to other lands. That's why it would make sense on a lot of parameters to take these lands out. So should I understand the rapporteur's view that this is just a question of financing?
ParlaMint-DK_20160420033511	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420033514	Yes, it is a financing issue, which is also quite essential if you want to be a responsible economic party. But the very concept of taking out low-level soils was something that we brought up ourselves when we discussed this supplementary package for the agricultural package. So it is a tool that we ourselves have pointed out in the past. But it is clear that you have to find the money for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420033533	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420033552	The proposals we are discussing today or tonight are B 44 and B 45, which are about halting the loss of biodiversity in overheat and in fresh meadows and wetlands. What we are talking about is the nature that in August and September offers fantastic natural experiences in terms of smell and vision of the violet heather and the scattered bellflowers. Unfortunately, the natural experiences that we can have on our heaths become fewer and fewer simply because there are fewer and fewer of them. It hangs, among other things. In addition to the pollution caused by agriculture. This is also due to the fact that there are no longer animals on the land, so that trees grow, they simply jump in the forest, and then they remove the basis of living for precisely the particular species that exist on the heaths. It has gone the same way with excessive. When nature is in decline, the same way goes with the insects, the butterflies, the flowers and the plants that are associated with exactly the nature type. Half of our bumble bee species are gone, and also a lot of our butterfly species, such as... Black-spotted Bluebird and Hedeple Force have either disappeared or greatly decreased in number. And excessive with a multitude of floral species is mostly replaced by uniform grain fields. So to put it this way: excessive and heat are very endangered habitats, which have undergone a very severe land decline in Denmark over the last 200 years. Apart from being threatened by nitrogen pollution and lack of grazing, these habitat types are also threatened by fragmentation, as it is called, simply because the areas have become so small and are so scattered between each other that if the rare animals that are there first disappear, they will not be able to re-immigrate from somewhere else. The good thing about these nature proposals, and which are actually repeated in all of them, is that we know very well what it takes to stop the decline. We know that nitrogen pollution must be reduced. Some have just passed a legislative proposal which goes in the opposite direction. It causes more problems here and now for that nature. We also need more coherent natural areas and we need land to be grazed. These may be farm animals, as we have said in the past, but wild grazing will also be obvious. This is something that you start so small in several places in Denmark, among others. on Bornholm and in Store Vildmose. But this is about creating the best conditions for the free dynamics of nature, as they call it, so that the free, natural processes that make nature thrive unfold. In fact, we just lack the political will to give nature that place. In relation to meadows and wetlands, I would also like to speak a little in honour of the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party about the marvellous nature that exists there, because I do not think we should have many decades back in time until everyone knew the vibe's song. When the vibes arrived in February or March, it was known that spring was coming. It's not like that today. Today most people do not know the vibe's song, and if there were enough vibes, even the children at Nørrebro should have the opportunity to come out and experience them. When the spring response of the vibe stands as a weak peep compared to past times, it is because the vibes and lark and all the other species belonging to the open country no longer have very many places to live. The biodiversity, our all together, Denmark's species wealth of amazing, special species that help create and define our country and have been so for decades, is razed down. They disappear when their habitats disappear and when nature is generally in decline. Why is nature so? After all, we have discussed this a few times during the night. It is because agriculture has taken up very large parts of our area. When we lay out large parts of the area for agriculture, there is less room for other things, and then nature suffers. There's a perfectly natural connection, we can't have it all. Wetlands and meadows have been drained and converted into biological deserts in the form of endless wheat fields, and there the animals cannot live, there the birds cannot find food, and there is nothing to do for a butterfly. The watercourses have been accomplished, they have been piped, they have been deepened. Our watercourses have become drainage channels for agriculture. If there are no aquatic plants, if there are no shallow spawning grounds, then there are no fish, then life is not as simple as that. As I have now repeated a number of times, we must stop the decline in nature and biodiversity, and we really have quite a few years to do so. And we have to do this for several reasons: we have to do this, among other things. do so if we also want our children and grandchildren to experience the nature that we ourselves have experienced. If they are also to experience the song of the vibes and the larch, if they are also to see the butterflies, which are so distinctive and so special for Denmark, if they are also to experience the characteristic flowering sea of the meadows and the violet heather of the heath, then we must do something now. Then some of the so-called low bottom areas will have to return to nature; then we will have to get the animals out of the stables and into nature, because nature needs them to care for itself, otherwise it will grow and be destroyed. We must also dare to bet on the wild grass-eaters in the form of bisons, wild horses and crown animals that can support nature in ways that farm animals cannot. Then we need to get the water out of the pipes, we need to stop drainage, and we need to give the water back to the natural cycle. We need to stop porridge cutting. We must recreate the winding and winding nature in the watercourses both for the sake of nature and also for the sake of recreational fishing. At least we have to make some choices. Where are the rivers most optimally dewatering agriculture, and where are we going to give the streams back to nature? Because it's an illusion to think that we can have both. The solutions to biodiversity problems are, in a sense, too over-exploited, heath, meadows and wetland areas. In fact, the only thing that is lacking is the political will to get started. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420034349	There is a brief comment from Mrs Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420034356	Thank you. I simply cannot help but praise the language. I think I'm just gonna give you some information. A week and a half ago, I took care of my lawn outside the house and removed moss. I live close to a forest, and then I live close to agricultural fields and Christmas tree plantations. When I had taken care of my lawn and got rid of moss, I went in, and all of a sudden I came to look out. I think there were ten vibes out there on this boisterous ground. I was really happy about that. I also have a lot of beetles, so the vibes had a great breakfast. So you can experience them where I live. That's one thing. The second point concerns the watercourses which the rapporteur is talking about here. I am a little surprised that people are talking about the fact that we are no longer allowed to cut crop, and then we have to remove the reeded watercourses. There are therefore places where watercourses have been made, where ditches have been dug, I was saying let's call them that, because they were enough to start with to drain farmland. What will the rapporteur do about it? We're gonna have to drained land.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420034501	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420034504	As far as the vibes are concerned, I would just like to congratulate the rapporteur. It is a fact that the vibes are in decline in Denmark. It is a species that continues to go backwards. So uncontested by the fact that the rapporteur has seen ten vibes outside his house, we have a political responsibility to deal with the decline in the nature in which the vibes live. If we are to recreate nature in our river valleys, if we are to have live watercourses again, we have to give the watercourses back to nature. So the ditches are a little different. It hangs, among other things. together with the forests. If we are to stop draining our forests and also give the forests back to their natural cycles, we must throw the ditches to. But in some places it makes sense, of course, to drain Denmark is a very low-lying country to preserve agricultural land. But in other places, and that is what goes through the whole debate again... we will have to give the areas back to nature, unfettered by whether it is forest, wetlands or whatever it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420034620	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420034624	Thank you. I just think it's a weird discussion. The rapporteur says that we must give back to nature. So, when you have a stream that is actually designed to drain a field, what is the rapporteur going to give back to nature? Then we can call it a ditch or not. I remember when I was a kid, we had ditches everywhere today sewering along the roads for reasons that are completely indifferent to me. I don't understand. But I just think what we're talking about is weird. We all want nature, of course, but I cannot find out what nature the rapporteur wants.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420034703	We're gonna get an answer to that now. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420034706	Exactly. These are all the streams that are now being cleaned up, where the porridge is removed, where the basis for life, water plants, which are spawning grounds, is removed in order to dewater. These aren't ditches we're talking about. And I think the rapporteur is right to say that there are a great many streams that are now cropped in a large way. These are the ones we're talking about here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420034730	As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposals be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420034754	The debate is open. Minister for the Environment and Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420034806	Thank you for that, President. And with reference to my introductory speech also on behalf of the Left, I can reject the motion for a resolution from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420034820	That was a brief remark made by Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420034824	After all, this is precisely an area in which we are very much in agreement, I hope that precisely we will deal with biodiversity in forests and we will have to ensure more untouched forest. I'm standing here with B 144 from 27 March 2015 - it's really not so long ago when the Left and other parties promise 25,000 ha of untouched forest. Is that something that the Left wants to honour in the upcoming nature package?
ParlaMint-DK_20160420034901	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420034905	There must always be a majority, and we are a minority government, but of course we have not sent a signal before an election on untouched forest to leave that promise after election.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420034914	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420034917	I am, of course, extremely pleased about this. So I would just like to ask the Minister: if it is not possible to create a majority in the blue block, if there are now some of the parties that helped to put forward the proposal, which will not vouch for it anymore, will the Minister reach out in the Danish Parliament as far as being able to live up to his electoral promises to the Danes?
ParlaMint-DK_20160420034939	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420034943	I think the rapporteur is about to know me as well as the minister that she knows that I never go into those speculations about if and if and if. I have a great deal of faith in the bourgeois parties that are going to negotiate nature packages and that there will be a common ground to make untouched forests as well. What it may look like, we have to negotiate, and as we are a minority government, we are of course listening to the parties with which we have to shoulder responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420035008	We are grateful to the Minister and then we will start with the rapporteur's speeches. We start with Mrs Lea Wermelin, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420035025	Now we are almost at the end of the road. We have reached the issue of ensuring that the loss of biodiversity in Danish forests is stopped and turned to progress by 2020. We believe that our forests are important for the diversity of our species and habitats, for biodiversity, and in Nature Plan Denmark we also had several different measures to strengthen efforts in forests: a new national forest programme, a target of 10%. of the total forest area by 2040 with nature and biodiversity as the primary purpose, the establishment of private forest on agricultural land through voluntary subsidy schemes, increased natural value, especially in the forests of the Natura 2000 areas through e.g. nature-friendly forest management, grazing forest, more dead by, conservation of old trees and combating invasive species. And we would also like to be involved in the interpretation of more untouched forest. The aim of the actions was to prioritise action where it makes the most sense in terms of protecting and improving the conditions of endangered species and habitats. And we would actually like to give the forest areas a special priority in the green Danmark map, but without having to revive the whole discussion once more because we have been around it a few times this evening I would say that the Left has cancelled the green Danmark map. We think it is good with untouched forest, but as we have also discussed before, we do not believe that we can abandon the effort in the light-open nature in favour of untouched forest. It is mixing pears and bananas; they are different habitat types and different species. That is why we would not be in favour of the proposal made by the blue bloc before the elections. We need to have an effort in both places. At the same time, it also costs money, and so far we have not seen much of a green policy on the part of the government, but we can hear that something is coming, so we have to put that to the test. I'd say there's a lot to do with everything you've canceled to get in plus anywhere. But we'll have to wait and see. One of the things I was trying to ask the Minister, and which we certainly expect from the Social Democratic Party, is that the electoral promises of this 25 000 hectares of forest as untouched forests are being fulfilled. In this respect, it is interesting to see whether the government shares the view of what it would cost us when we were in government or whether we had the same view as when we were in opposition. But we cannot, in fact, be in favour of the proposal here. We would like to continue working on some of the measures that we have proposed. But I think we've been through a tour of biodiversity, also in relation to our forests. I should like to welcome the Radicals and say that they think the intention is good enough, but that they do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420035338	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we go further. It's Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420035346	Thank you. In the last case too, I would like to say briefly that I will refer to my speech from B 42. The Danish People's Party cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420035358	Should I understand that there is a brief comment from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding? Maria Reumert Gjerding Yes, then). Because it disappeared from my screen here. Maria Reumert Gjerding I don't know, but it says I have 41⁄2 minutes, the technique may be getting off). No, I think that's a mistake. Let's start with one minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420035416	Now Mrs Pia Adelsteen is on the motion for a resolution from last year, so I am just curious and would like to know whether the Danish People's Party still gives its full support to the 25,000 ha of untouched forests, which the Danish People's Party, together with the other blue parties, went to the polls on the basis of a vow of the election and whether the Danish People's Party will throw energy and struggle into it to get through this which is so incredibly important to Danish biodiversity.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420035447	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420035450	The short answer will be yes. And I would like to say a little more in-depth that when the proposal was tabled, we had a relationship with the economy, which we were told by a red government did not hold water. Whether it keeps water this time, I don't know. That's what I'm gonna let the Ministry do. But if it keeps water at the price we said at least at the time, I cannot see that there is anything wrong with us implementing it. However, I would also like to say that the funding must be in place. This is always the case, and so is the case for the Danish People's Party, regardless of whether it is untouched forest or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420035522	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420035525	Now I haven't been in a red government, so I can't answer if it's holding water. However, I would just like to say that it is very positive that the Danish People's Party is firmly committed to the electoral promise it has made, and I would also like to hope that, regardless of how the funding can be knitted together, one will be open to continuing to follow up an election promise that is so extremely important to our biodiversity.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420035546	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420035550	We would, of course, very much like that because what we say before an election, we also say after an election in the Danish People's Party. We have always done so, and we hold on to that. I remember that when we tabled the proposal, it was thought that when you put 20 per cent. of the state forests out as untouched forests, it would cost 20 per cent. of the amount received as income. We were told that, and it didn't hold water at all. That would almost cost 70%. of what one had as earnings, for there were apparently many factors that we had not thought about at all. I'm just excited to see if that's holding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420035621	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. It's sir. Carsten Bach for Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420035629	Thank you. I can start by reassuring the Enhedslisten's rapporteur and saying that Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding does not need to rush the button this time. I am actually going to give a slightly longer speech to the rapporteur. I actually do, because this is the last in the series of proposals in the Enhedslisten nature package. This is among other things. Therefore, and also because a single headline in the Altinget last week, which several rapporteurs in this Chamber have read without reading the whole article, could well create a little doubt about the position of the Liberal Alliance on the issue of untouched forest. In this way, perhaps I can also preempt Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding and save her a question later on. Of course, the Liberal Alliance stands by the motion for a resolution that we have been involved in in the past, together with the other parties in the blue bloc. This applies, of course, to watercourses as well as all the talk we have here about untouched forests. As I said, it is still the aim of the Liberal Alliance that in the long term they should be interpreted here approx. 20% of the current state forest area to untouched forest. According to information provided by the Danish Nature Agency in this regard, it can apparently cost the Treasury up to 38 million. kr. annual in lost earnings from timber production to interpret these approx. 20% of the state forests as untouched. Furthermore, the Liberal Alliance is very interested in finding funding for such a proposal, in cooperation with all the parties of the Folketing, which we will, of course, do in the first instance in the negotiations on the nature package of the government. I know the Danish Nature Agency has an operating budget of about 1.5 billion. kr. I think that there should be an opportunity to find a single area where re-prioritisation, efficiency, exposure to competition and perhaps other things could create room for more untouched forest in Denmark. Then I have not even mentioned earnings in search of all the land of the state. In the Liberal Alliance, we believe that the market must control timber production and the state must take care of the interests of nature and biodiversity. If exposed to market conditions, timber production in the state's existing tight production forest can probably be optimised so that both funds and space can be created for more untouched forest elsewhere without a reduction in production. In other words, I believe that the state should not operate commercial timber production. I would therefore also like to invite everyone in this Chamber tonight to a dialogue so that, in future, through reforms, we can free the Danish Nature Agency from the constricting and unfortunate double role, both to operate commercial timber production and to improve natural values and biodiversity in the Danish state forests. I take that conviction into account in the forthcoming nature package negotiations with the Minister and hope for a good result, which is why I do not support this motion for a resolution either.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420040037	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420040041	The rapporteur is right to say that it spared me one question, but it then raised the need for another. Basically, I wonder why the Liberal Alliance does not think that the Community, in other words all the Danish taxpayers, should benefit from the income that may be in the forests. Why is it so important for the Liberal Alliance that it should be privatised so that it benefits a small group instead of all of us? So the forests could help to secure revenue that we did not need to levy in tax. There is no doubt that the statements by the Liberal Alliance may be misunderstandings or misquots, or that only half of the article has been read about whether the Liberal Alliance really is behind this motion for a resolution and the promise of 25,000 hectares of untouched forest. So I understand that the rapporteur and the Liberal Alliance are entirely behind this, but that different funding solutions are being negotiated, which, of course, we are welcome to do, but that we do not want to run out of our electoral vows?
ParlaMint-DK_20160420040144	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420040146	The title in question was actually the result of purely factual information which I gave to the journalist of the Altinget about the funds in the nature package of the government, and which, I believe, has been drawn to the attention of earlier today, is a one-off sum of 89 million. kr., as I just pointed out. And as a former Minister for the Environment has also pointed out, if an area equal to approx. 20% of the state forests, create a loss of revenue in the Danish Treasury of approx. 38 million kr. It is, of course, an annual loss of revenue, and therefore it cannot be financed by a lump sum.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420040241	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420040243	But there's also a whole lot of things you don't have to do anymore. It is not necessary to maintain the forest to the same extent as it is to care for the forest. In reality, you just have to put it to be untouched and for people to come out and enjoy it, and so nature can be sent back to its wild dynamics. So I would urge the rapporteur to do some of these calculations a little bit on the blade. But I really would like an answer, including to all those who are following the debate, perhaps not now, but at a later stage, or earlier, or how to put it. Is the Liberal Alliance behind this election promise of 25,000 hectares of untouched forest? It means something for real, a lot of people to get a clear answer to that question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420040320	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420040323	Obviously, the Liberal Alliance cannot be behind an election promise made by a member of another party. However, as I also said in my rapporteur's speech just now, we are of course behind all the resolutions that we have tabled in the past, and this is the case with resolutions on watercourses, and this is the case with resolutions on forests.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420040348	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. It's sir. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420040359	We now come to the forestry sector, and this is an area that we have been working on a great deal in the alternative over the last year. This is a field where we see a special opportunity to get started to increase biodiversity in Denmark in a good way. We have been confirmed in this by a number of researchers over the years, most recently by a number of researchers who have mentioned that there is a need not only for state forests to be converted into untouched forests, but also for a large part of private forests to be. The total figure, as I recall, was 75,000 ha. Our proposal from the Alternative has originally been that all state forests over a short period of time should be converted into untouched forests, and that is because we believe that this simply has to happen with the role of the state. It seems unnatural that the state has a role in actual timber production. What should be the role of the state, in the opinion of the Alternative, is to provide a high level of biodiversity and provide citizens with access to exciting nature. That is what we believe the state forests can be used for. We also believe that it is possible, when we talk about untouched forests, to make use of land distribution, so that we can swap some forest with private forest owners and in this way get the areas that are most relevant to convert to nature, converted into untouched forest and swap and convert the areas that are more suitable for actual timber production into timber production. This may also provide an opportunity to gather more coherent forest areas. There are plenty of options here. So for the financing of this area. It is interesting that everyone is talking about the fact that we cannot have it funded at all, for example. of the 89 million kr. with which the government has played out. But there I think you have to understand that if you turn forests into untouched forests, it is not the case that you sell all the state chainsaws tomorrow. It is a question of identifying areas and establishing a plan for the run-down of forest management, and this will typically take a number of years. This means that in year 1 there will be a very small reduction in timber production. In year two, it'll be a little bigger. In year 3 it will be a little bigger and so on. It will typically come in some lumps. You have a small area with some plantation drift, and it should then be allowed to grow 5 more years, and then it will also be phased out. I believe that there is an area where we will really be able to go a long way if we sit around the table and create the right designation and movement towards a large area of untouched forest throughout Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420040707	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420040730	We are also in the SF in favour of this proposal. We agree with the Enhedslisten that clear policy objectives must be set for forests and that parts of private and public forests must have biodiversity as clearly defined targets. We also believe that it is important to ensure public access to untouched forests, and we are also concerned about getting started now and here, and thus by 2020, with planting to untouched forests. However, we also believe that it is important to set objectives for the future. In SF we believe that the goal should be to 8.5%. of Denmark must really be untouched forest by 2050 • half of these 17 per cent, we have talked a lot about • and that more frequent checks of defined sub-targets must take place until then. The potential for untouched forest in Denmark should be clarified by 2020, at the same time as the transformation starts. As far as the 2020 targets are concerned, we do not, of course, achieve the UN and the EU objective of halting the decline in species and habitats. There are two reasons for this. One is the Left Government and the other is that the 2020 target is not clearly defined. When are we in the finish line? We need clear definitions and tools to measure it. The government will then send a lot of figures and prose to the UN and the EU and hope that it looks like implementation. However, we will not be able to document it, and that is why we are so concerned about setting concrete targets and getting the targets laid down by law. But we agree with the Enhedslisten. I would say that there is also a rare consensus with the Liberal Alliance, as we have also been confirmed before. We believe from the SF that it is not the task of the State to operate timber production or wood production. We would like the state to listen and make some land distribution, so that we get some more high value forest and, in turn, deliver some of it with low biodiversity value in order to get started more quickly. Because we make four-year plans in here and finance law for one year at a time, we sometimes forget that when it comes to trees, we have to look 50, 100, 200, 400 years into the future. That's how old trees get. We are not used to making policy with that time horizon, but we need to look very far ahead in the future to ensure some high value forest and some high value trees in the future. Now I am glad that we are finished and I would like to thank you for a good debate. I'm glad we're done, because I don't have much more vote left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420041031	A simple answer is needed for Mrs Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420041034	I am almost sorry to ask the rapporteur. And I understand you're losing your voice now. It was because the rapporteur said that we are not achieving the 2020 targets. There were two reasons for this: it is the fault of the Left Government, and I do not really care about that, but I do not understand it, and I would therefore like an explanation. That's one reason. The second was that the goal was unclear, that it was difficult to measure and that it was not defined. I would very much like an explanation for that, because what the hell are we going to do?
ParlaMint-DK_20160420041108	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420041111	In 2010 and I will by no means say that it was the fault of the then government alone, because after all there had also been some other governments, but I would say that a large part of it was the government's fault, because after all we had been sitting there for 10 years before we did not achieve the biodiversity objectives with the uncertain measuring tools we have. And we can see that all experts tell us that we simply will not be able to live up to the Biodiversity Convention by 2020, even this time. But that should not stop us from trying and then listing much more concrete targets for what it is that we want to measure. Well, there is a framework in the Biodiversity Convention. We have red-list species and so on, but we have not been systematically involved in saying how we want to measure it in the forests, with the species, the open country, etc., in other words all these thematics, which we have also discussed with the six proposals today. So that's really what I'm asking for.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420041223	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420041226	That was a really interesting answer. One of the reasons I find the answer interesting is that we are actually discussing something with some things that we do not know exactly how to measure. And so, for me, it's kind of like the chicken and the egg: what the hell are we doing? I guess I'm a little bookkeepery. Well, it's the kind of thing with numbers: two plus two is four, and it can't give five never. So if we want to go from A to B, how do we get there so we get B? I thought that was an interesting answer. At least there's something I have to learn.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420041304	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420041306	That is why we need comprehensive framework legislation on biodiversity and nature. Because things also affect each other. That was no comment on the Enhedslisten, because I fully understand why it has been divided. But we must have a single framework legislation in which we say: what will it look like on our coasts? What's it gonna look like in our garden? What are we going to measure? Where are the red lists coming in, etc.?? Because there are some major thematics in the European Union and in the UN with the Biodiversity Convention, but they also require us to create some tools to make it undetectable that we do not have enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420041350	Thank you to the rapporteur, the vote was held. We go to the Conservative rapporteur, Mrs Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420041402	I do not really think it would be quite a pity for the people's regime if the people could see that it is nevertheless necessary to mark for allocated speaking time here at quarter past four, where we are discussing biodiversity in the Parliamentary Assembly. I think that would actually be quite useful. With reference to our comments on B 42, the first thing we discussed today, I can say that we cannot support this proposal either. However, I would like to say a little more in-depth and quite briefly that the resolution we adopted in agreement in the blue block was very much focused on the forests of the state, and there I think there is little that the developments that have taken place and the research that has been carried out and so on. In the last six months, at least I have opened my eyes to the fact that if we want to have as much biodiversity as possible for the money, we also need to cooperate with private forest owners. For it is just there that much of the incredibly valuable nature, which is interesting for us in terms of biodiversity, is. This will require the forest owners to see an interest in voluntarily setting up a lease scheme with the state. I recently attended a forest circuit meeting at Zealand. I do not remember exactly what the setup was called, but it was a number of private forest owners who had some concerns about the conditions under which such a contract or such a lease was to be concluded. They also had some good advice on what we should take into account when discussing this. One of the things was that they thought there was a need for a much higher level of evaluation on an ongoing basis, also in relation to the contracts that have already been concluded for such eternity forest contracts. They felt that there was a need for more evaluation, more knowledge of what specific types of red-listed species were to be preserved in their area. And it was certainly an eye-opener for me. I hope that, in the context of the nature package negotiations, we can have a discussion on how private forest owners can also enter into, although it has to be said that this is much more difficult. I mean, the easy solution is simply to use the state's own forests, but I also think we need to listen to the reports that point to the fact that this is just not necessarily the way we get the most biodiversity for money. It was just one such consideration here at the end of the evening. But we do not support this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420041628	A brief remark from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420041631	I therefore agree with the rapporteur's criticism of Blue Block's own proposal, which focuses exclusively on state forests, but precisely the resolution we are debating now has precisely the two legs, both state forests and private forests. This responds to the rapporteur's concerns, so it is rather unclear to me why the rapporteur cannot support it. At the same time, I would like to say that we now have among other things. together visited a private forest owner, who I think very clearly said that if society started to demand biodiversity and nature, then it would be desirable to deliver it. The question of compensation was more of an economic one. I think that is what we hear from the forest association - I think that is what they are called. So the thing about walking on two legs, which is at the heart of this resolution, is exactly what this is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420041725	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420041727	I have not criticised the proposal we are discussing here for not involving both legs. My criticism was of the resolution we tabled at the time, but not a single penny has still been financed in the Enhedslisten's proposal. So it is exactly the same criticism that we have been through many other times. And then I would say that it was also the forest association that was responsible for the event I was at, and yes, it may well be that just there is money, then you would like to make agreements, but one of the things I want, for example. heard, was that it was supposed to be 10-year agreements or 20-year agreements, and when we talk about biodiversity, there is therefore little logic in the state placing a lot of money in making a 20-year agreement, which is then terminated, so there really must be a vote of expectation here. So, unfortunately, I don't think it's that easy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420041810	Then it's Mrs. Lea Wermelin.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420041812	Thank you. As I understand it, the Conservatives have said that not only will 25 000 hectares of untouched forest be laid, which is what the Left has promised us will happen, but 50 000 hectares of untouched forest will be laid, and I just want to hear something, because the rapporteur has sometimes asked the proposers about the economic side. How much is it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160420041837	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420041839	What we have said from the conservative side is that in the long term we want 50,000 hectares. There was a recent report which pointed out that the figure was probably close to 75,000 hectares which were necessary. We have not said that these 50 000 hectares should be ready either tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, but that is something that must be done over the years, and the price depends entirely on the extent to which private agreements can be made and whether it is in the forests of the state itself that it should be done. The price depends entirely on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420041907	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420041909	Okay, so the Conservatives haven't suggested that 50,000 hectares of untouched forest be laid. It's just to get it right when we're discussing this, and now we've been discussing it for a really long time. So what you kind of put forward and stand for is one of the things you want to finance and say that you want to give priority to that. You can also take that for good goods and say: okay, if I vote for you, that's what you want. But I just could not hear from the rapporteur that that is what you want and that you want to add the funding that you need or that you have a price at all for what it costs. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20160420041944	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420041946	I really think the rapporteur is hearing what the rapporteur wants to hear, and I have sensed that all night long. What we have said is that we have helped to table a motion for a resolution on these 20,000 hectares, and we have said that it is not enough in the long term, and all the reports also point out that it is not. We're going up to a higher number of acres. That's what we're gonna do along the way. I can't tell you if we can make it tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. But it's written in our vision paper, which is called "Vision 2034", so we'd certainly like to have it done by then.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420042018	There are no more brief comments. So for the last time in this round it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420042037	Thank you very much, and I would like to start by thanking you very much for a very long debate that has been going on all night. I think there are more of us who are getting no or very, very little sleep tonight before we have to go up and take care of tomorrow's obligations. The last proposal here in our nature and biodiversity package is about forests, and if you have followed the political debate over the last year, you can see that there has actually been a large degree of consensus in both the red and the blue blocs that action has to be taken here. Socially-economically, nature and biodiversity are one of the best areas to do, and it is incredibly gratifying that we have an area on which we agree. And there is also good reason to put our forests into action. For in the most recent report to the European Union on our internationally protected natural areas, researchers found that the conservation status of forests was 100%. - - - - - - - - - - - ~ - ~ - ~ - ~ - ~ - ~ - ~ - ~ - ~ - ~ - ~ - ~ - ~ - ~ - ~ - ~ - ~ - ~ - ~ - ~ - ~ - ~ - ~ - ~ - ~ - ~ Translated into Danish, this means that biodiversity and nature in the forests are feeling really, really bad. At the same time, as several other rapporteurs have said, the Danish forests have a total of 65 per cent. of all endangered species in Denmark and 40% of all endangered species in Denmark. of all our endangered species are only found in the forests. So it is absolutely crucial to do something in the forests to stop the decline in nature and biodiversity, and this is basically linked to Denmark being originally a forest-covered country. So many of our species are of course there, and there are very many forests, because society has been asking for timber from the forests for years. And that is why many of the forests are uniform: they are the same varieties, the trees are the same age, and they stand there in rows that are quite straight trunks and will be perfect for planks, for floors and for building materials, which we also need. But it's not good for nature. There is a great deal of our nature in the forests, which depend on real old trees, which depend on dead trees, and which depend on a great variety of different types of wood and wood, and that is why it is so difficult, not to say almost impossible, to reconcile consideration for the most rare and vulnerable species in the forest with timber production, and that is why we are gradually agreed that we should deal with the most vulnerable and endangered species, we will have to set the forest aside for untouched forest. But setting the chainsaw is not enough. We also need to restore the forest's natural water cycle. Now I have discussed ditches earlier with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and it is precisely the ditches that we will have to throw to, and we must stop draining the forests so that the water can rise and stand high again, and precisely create the natural lightnings and natural dynamics that are found originally in the forests. Then we will have to get some of the original herbivores back, and we have also discussed this a few times today. This is particularly about some of the larger and wild animals, which create a great and natural dynamic in the forests, on which they also depend. In the past, the forest was characterized by grazing animals. Unfortunately, the peace forest regulation came to an end as far back as 1805, and that is what we have to do and touch over and over again to allow us to get wild animals into the forests. All in all, I would like to thank you for the treatment of the Enhedslisten nature package. It has been a pleasure to discuss nature with all the parties of the Folketing. After all, it is a unique situation that we agree on the objective, but we do not entirely agree on the means. Personally, I am very much looking forward to the nature package of the government, and I would therefore urge the Minister to invite all parties of the Folketing to discuss the nature package here in Parliament. As can also be seen today, we have been discussing nature for a whole night, so it is something that I think one can say takes up all the parties of the Folketing. So we will certainly look forward to it and hope for it in the Enhedslisten. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420042514	Then no one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160420042528	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held later on Wednesday, 20 April 2016, at 10:00 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
