ParlaMint-DK_20160906100013	The meeting is open. The Committee on Taxation has delivered: Report on initiatives against undeclared work. 10). The report will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk. Aleqa Hammond has informed me that on 23 August 2016 she has resigned from Siumut's parliamentary group and continues as a non-attached member in the Folketing. From a member of the Folketing, Mogens Lykketoft, who is on leave, I have been informed that from 1 October 2016 he will be able to rejoin the Tinget. The term of office of Jep Bruus as a temporary member of the Folketing shall cease to apply from that date. The Conservative People's Party Parliamentary Group has informed me that, with effect from 1 October 2016, it has appointed a member of the Folketing Simon Emil Ammitzbøll (LA) as a state auditor instead of Lars Barfoed. The parliamentary group of the Liberal Alliance has informed me that, with effect from 1 October 2016, it has appointed a member of the Folketing, Leif Mikkelsen (LA), as deputy to the State Auditor, instead of a member of the Folketing, Brian Mikkelsen (KF).
ParlaMint-DK_20160906100152	Laura Lindahl has applied for leave from 1 October 2016, cf. Paragraph 41 of the Rules of Procedure. 4, while Alex Ahrendtsen has applied for leave from 4 October 2016, cf. Paragraph 41 of the Rules of Procedure. 3 (c). If no objection is raised, I shall consider it agreed that leave should be granted as applied for and that substitutes should be called as temporary members. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906100233	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the First Deputy of the Liberal Alliance in Copenhagen's Grand District, Danny K. Malkowski, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing as from 1 October 2016 on the occasion of Laura Lindahl's leave. I have also received the recommendation that the First Deputy of the Danish People's Party in Fyns Storkreds, Carsten Kudsk, be approved as a temporary member of the Danish Parliament from 4 October 2016 on the occasion of Alex Ahrendtsen's leave. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906100315	The committee's recommendation shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. 114 voted in favour, so the committee's recommendation has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906100403	I give the floor to the chairman of the committee, Mr President. Peter Juel Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906100416	Thank you, President. The general approval of the elections following the parliamentary elections of 18 June 2015 took place on 3 July 2015. In this connection, the Ting also approved Aaja Chemnitz Larsen and Aleqa Hammond as elected in Greenland. In accordance with Article 1 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 6, this approval took place on the basis of a preliminary statement of the elections received from the Rigsombudsman in Greenland. When the electoral material finally established is available, Things shall make a final decision as to whether the approval can be maintained. On 2 March 2016, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Interior sent the final election book and the Ministry's statement to the Danish Parliament by the Rigsombudsman in Greenland. In addition, on 31 August 2016, the Ministry sent the Ministry's comments on a complaint lodged on the day of the election. The complaint has not affected the choice or the calculations made. The richman answered the complaint himself, as noted in the electoral book. The Ministry of Social Affairs and the Interior has therefore clarified to the Kingdom Ombudsman that the prescribed procedure for complaints about the election of the Parliament is that complaints should be sent to the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior with the comments of the Kingdom Ombudsman. The Ministry then forwards the material to the Folketing. The Committee on the Verification of Credentials has recognised in a letter to the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Interior that the Ministry has clarified the correct procedure for electoral complaints against the Kingdom Ombudsman in Greenland. The committee dealt with the matter in a meeting. The final statement, like the provisional statement, shows that Aaja Chemnitz Larsen and Aleqa Hammond have been elected members of the Danish Parliament for Greenland. Some changes have been made to the final statement in relation to the provisional statement. However, the changes do not affect the choice of Aaja Chemnitz Larsen and Aleqa Hammond. No reasonable doubt has been raised before the committee as to the eligibility of the nominees. On behalf of the Committee, I can then make the following recommendation: The approval made on 3 July 2015 on the basis of the Kingdom Ombudsman in Greenland's provisional statement of the elections is maintained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906100642	Thank you to the rapporteur. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906100646	The committee's recommendation shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. The Committee's recommendation was adopted unanimously by 113 votes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906100717	The debate is open. It's first, sir. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906100733	Thank you, President. I will start by making an admission, because I feel a certain expectation pressure on my shoulders. It is in itself terrifying to stand here on the platform of the Folketing, but that is not actually what makes me feel an expectation pressure. It is, on the other hand, the idea that we parliamentary politicians are faced with one of the most important tasks for a long time. Here I am thinking of the task of drawing the future of Denmark towards 2025. It is a pressure of expectation, but it also calls for reflection, because have we now remembered to ask ourselves the questions about what kind of society we want in 2025? What are the negotiations that are going to take place? What is the problem that needs to be resolved? A long-term plan for the Danish economy only makes sense if it solves Denmark's real challenges. We must ensure the future of the Danish welfare society and create new jobs. That's how short it can be said. It is about developing the Denmark we believe in, about solving the challenges we face, about making Denmark more capable, richer and fairer. In Denmark, we Social Democrats believe in, you are free, you are safe and you have opportunities. No matter where you grew up in the country, no matter how rich or poor your parents are, each woman or man has the same freedom to choose the life she wants. She enjoys the same security from the community and the safety net we together hold out for each other. She has the same opportunities to take a good education and get proper health care when she needs it. We must take care of that Denmark. Denmark is basically well equipped for the future. Thanks to reforms that we Social Democrats have contributed to and taken responsibility for, the economy is robust. The finances are healthy and the supply of work is high. There is money in the box for growth and welfare in the coming years. But we can't just let it go. We are facing serious challenges that require action now. Our welfare is under pressure. We're getting older, the drugs are getting more expensive, and more refugees have come here. Productivity has stalled. This has been the case since the beginning of the '00s. We lack the right skills in the labour market, because many Danes find it difficult to find work while at the same time companies cannot provide employees with the right qualifications. The framework conditions of the companies are under pressure. And we have not yet ensured that growth will benefit the whole of Denmark. These are challenges that we must and must address. The government's plan, however, is about something quite different. The so-called overall plan is about carrying out expensive personal tax reliefs and facilitating tax relief for those who earn the most. I am therefore not sure that we share the concerns of the bourgeois wing. Maybe it's because we don't listen to the same people. When I'm supposed to have a sense of what kind of specific problems we have in the country, I'd rather listen to someone like Bent Jensen from Guderup on Als. Bent Jensen owns the factory Linak, with which he has had great success, and for Bent the dream is to leave the company in Denmark and form a business fund that can ensure that it remains in Danish hands, not to sell out and travel with the fortune to Switzerland. It's also important to someone like Hanne. Hanne's on Linak. She's a shop steward for the employees at the factory. She is confident that she and the remaining factory workers can stay at their jobs until they retire. When I read the government's 2025 plan, I don't see anywhere that these people have been listened to. In fact, there is the prospect that the wealthiest people will have a high level of tax relief, actually higher than any other income group, and what cannot happen when Mr. Anders Samuelsen and his advisors from Saxo Bank come to an audience with the Prime Minister? Hænnee down on the factory floor, on the other hand, has to be thanked for a somewhat smaller increase in income. Well, she and her colleagues will also have to retire 1⁄2 years later, so a bank manager has even more money to drink champagne for on his private island. Now I know that my good colleagues from the Left are ready down there with well-prepared questions, and I wonder if one or two people are going to ask where our plan is. So I'll spare them that question. We Social Democrats intend to come forward to the negotiations the government has called for on both the Finance Act and the 2025 Plan with three fundamental priorities: Denmark must be more skilled in 2025, Denmark must be richer and Denmark must be fairer. Specifically, it is about ensuring first a better Denmark, where we have a higher productivity. We've been limping behind for over 15 years. The Socialists have put forward their proposal for an upgrading reform to ensure that more people move from unskilled to skilled and that companies can find the skilled workers they lack. We want a richer Denmark where our companies create new jobs and everyone regardless of the postal code benefits from growing prosperity. That is why the Socialists want to implement a growth reform in which we give companies better framework conditions so that they can cope with global competition. By investing in our businesses, by strengthening entrepreneurship, by ensuring access to responsible capital and by creating better opportunities for modernisation and technological development, we are creating growth and jobs. More than twice, we have presented a major package of initiatives that can be directly included in the negotiations on a 2025 plan. So we want a fairer Denmark where all Danes are guaranteed good opportunities for a good life, and that is why we need to strengthen welfare and ensure a well-functioning public sector, good care for the elderly, health care of the world class and good education. This is a prerequisite for maintaining our prosperity, and it is a prerequisite for us to have the freedom to create the life we want to live, because without a strong foundation the house collapses. It is possible to implement these priorities within the scope of nearly 40 billion. kr. created through the reforms of the past many years. Our approach to the negotiations is thus more simple than that of the government. We do not believe that the Danish economy needs an expensive personal tax reform. If we opt out of expensive personal tax reliefs, particularly reliefs in top tax, the need for example for the government's proposal to cut the SU and raise the retirement age of the Danes in the 1950s, which are already worn out, disappears. Let us concentrate on giving priority to the room for manoeuvre of just under 40 billion. kr. to address the real challenges we face rather than to reduce the retirement age in order to finance top tax reliefs. We Social Democrats are ready to solve challenges and to make an overall agreement that creates security for Denmark's welfare society. In addition to the ambitions to make Denmark more capable, richer and fairer, we also have some clear duty tasks to solve: the PRS, the property assessments and the recovery of SKAT, so that we again have an efficient and well-functioning tax system that the Danes trust. We therefore agree to the negotiations on both the Finance Act and the 2025 Plan with an open and constructive mind, but we also believe that the two processes are inextricably linked. We are not going to make an agreement which alone aims to make sure that a certain set of steel eyes can blink again, and certainly not that it is the student who has to pay with his SU, or Hanne on the factory floor, who has to work 1⁄2 years longer for it to be done. I still have the benefit of hearing what challenges the government imagines it will solve with top tax relief. It will not be a shortage of skilled labour or the pressure of welfare or the lame productivity or the biased Denmark that the government will help, on the contrary. However, I am a little consoled by the fact that for Mr. Anders Samuelsen and the Liberal Alliance are no longer about economics, but about value policy when we are firm that the millionaires must have a relief in the top tax. The fact that it is almost a religious call to lower the top tax for the richest is then the choice of the Liberal Alliance. Each man his faith, as they say. I believe, however, that most Danes, regardless of faith, have been brought up with values such as neighbourly love. This is probably one of the things that, by the way, helps to make Denmark a strong welfare society. I would certainly like to slaughter the sacred cow of the Liberal Alliance in this autumn. For the vast majority of Danes have clearly realised that top tax reliefs neither solve our challenges nor make Denmark a better place to live. A goodbye to the sacred top-tax cow, I believe, is a wise step towards a broad political agreement that will ensure the future of Denmark's welfare society within the space of just under 40 billion. kr., which the government has calculated itself. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906101728	Thank you to the rapporteur. There's a long line of people who want to ask. The first is sir. René Christensen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906101738	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. What is interesting is the catalogue of ideas that has come from the government. There are, of course, a great many measures, even in relation to funding, that is to say, to find a room for manoeuvre that can then be used afterwards. It is interesting to hear how the Socialists view the proposal to index transfer income as far as 2025. After all, this is a proposal led by the Socialists in the context of the 2012 tax reform. The question is really only: is it a policy that the Social Democrats still have that they want to support to extend that regime?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906101815	In our 2012 tax reform, it is indeed used as a temporary element, but we have also said that it must be temporary. When the government proposes what is being done now, yes, then the temporary is indirectly made permanent, and we do not think that is a sensible way and a sensible approach. That is also why our approach is that we should not go in and make a tax reform, but rather go into a disposition of the nearly 40 billion. kr., there is in the room, which the government has calculated itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906101847	Sir. René Christensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906101849	This means that the policy pursued by the Social Democratic Party in 2012 will not continue until 2025. We are quite happy about this in the Danish People's Party, as we are not part of the 2012 agreement. Can the rapporteur not also confirm this, and I know that the rapporteur can, also because you are part of the 2012 tax reform, that what is also uncertain about that model, i.e. not to predict in relation to wage developments, is that if we are to see what none of us want, that inflation increases, then it will certainly be certain that certain groups will feel the hardest because their wages will be frozen. This is particularly true of pensioners and people on early retirement, since they do not have the opportunity to get out and supplement their earnings.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906101930	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906101931	In any case, it is quite clear and certain, in order to supplement the rapporteur's view, that a number of the model calculations underlying what has been put forward in the so-called general plan and implicit tax reform are based on some effects which are quite questionable at all, and it has to be said that if you look at pensioners and other weak groups in Denmark, it is a reform that has a side of the coin. This can then be seen in the calculations which are, moreover, contained in the overall plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906102007	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906102010	I, too, will sign for the speech, that is to say that we must be a nation that becomes more skilled, that we must be richer and that it must be fairer. It was the three main requirements that were, and I would like to say that I think we can meet when we are going to have the negotiations. However, it would certainly be a little easier if we had something a little more concrete to deal with when we are discussing both today and, of course, when we get further in the autumn season. The rapporteur says, for example, that we must give priority to the room for manoeuvre. But why not increase the room for manoeuvre, why not do some things that mean that we have something more to make policy for and that we can then discuss in the Ministry of Finance or elsewhere? But since there is no plan and it was the rapporteur who brought me there, because he said himself that there is no plan, and that is as it is so let me try to ask: can you, for example, do you have a plan? I am not sure what the rapporteur and the Social Democrats would like to do for the public sector. It costs money somewhere. How much money is this all about? What kind of growth do the Socialists envisage in the public economy towards 2025?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906102116	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906102118	We are, in fact, based on the finance minister and the government's calculations. There are, as I think I have said a number of times, and I am happy to repeat it, and I also assume that Mr. Jacob Jensen can confirm it in what the government has calculated that there is up to 2025, a room for manoeuvre of just under 40 billion. kr. Within this framework, instead of having to finance a tax reform with a number of unpleasant things, I think the Minister for Finance has called it a catalogue of unpleasant things to give priority to welfare, growth, jobs and retraining, that is, to the barely 40 billion. kr. kr., as the government itself has indicated, there is no more or less.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906102204	Sir. Jacob Jensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906102204-2	But can the rapporteur just mention what economic growth he sees as? In other words, the Socialists do not have a plan. The rapporteur himself has said so, and that is all very well and good, but some thought must have been given to the growth of the public economy which must be towards 2025. Is it 0.5% that the Left Government starts with here in the game, or is it 1%?? Or is it something else you imagine? Has it not been thought about the growth of the public economy that the Socialists imagine and want?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906102236	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906102237	Of the room for manoeuvre of nearly 40 billion. kr., as the government has calculated that there is, you can finance the demographic pressure that is coming, it is a little higher than the 0.5% that Jacob Jensen says that the government has taken as a starting point and, in addition, you will also be able to take new initiatives in terms of creating growth and jobs, and not least to go in and make an effort, for example, to upgrade skills. When you bet on those things overall, you can do it within the framework, and I think you should turn things around. In other words, we must first of all ask what challenges we want to solve and then arrive at what is real public consumption.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906102317	Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906102321	Thank you. As the Socialist rapporteur knows, the government is in favour of a rather sharp deterioration in the SU. In the case of students living outside, it will be DKK 800. a month, and I think we can agree that it is quite a lot of money at the end of the month for a student, and that is especially a lot of money for students who cannot get help from home, by father and mother, when books are to be bought for thousands of kroner, or when there is a dentist bill, or when the money runs out at the end of the month. And at the same time, the government will also remove the sixth SU year, so that the students who are delayed really get in trouble at the end of the studies. I have heard the Socialist rapporteur say in the press that this is antisocial and that it is not something that the Socialists want to do. I just have to be sure that I understand it correctly: is it the case that the Socialists, as part of the SU conciliation, want to block these deteriorations? Do we know this already?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906102426	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906102428	Our starting point is that we do not think there should be any tax reform at all, and if you do not go into that space and scenario, you do not need to raise funding by cutting back on the SU, for example. I also think it is worth noting, because I think it may have been a little lost in the public debate, that many people think I saw, among other things. a discussion post in Politiken the other day about the fact that it is only about the candidate part of the programmes where you cut down on the SU. And it does not, it applies to the whole range of education. And that means that in addition to the challenge for those with a long higher education, it is also a number of ordinary people who start at the VUC, who then come out on the other side of the education with a presumably quite large student debt. And that is a serious concern. So, of course, I hope that the government intends to respect in general the settlements that have been reached all around the SU, and this applies to energy conciliation and a number of other settlements that are applicable in the areas that the government is trying to address. And, as I said, we do not see a need to go down that road.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906102535	Mrs. Pernille Skip.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906102536	In fact, I very much agree with the rapporteur that it is really important to emphasise that it is all students who are affected here, that it is over the board and that it will have major consequences for social mobility and probably also for the implementation rate and everything else. And that is why I asked the question which I shall now repeat. For the Social Democrats sit in the conciliation circle on the SU. The government has indeed announced that they will be willing to terminate the conciliation and even go to elections on it, but can we not be told by the Social Democrats that social mobility in the education system is so important and that the SU is so central to the whole basic idea that everyone should be able to get an education, no matter what their parents do, that the Social Democrats will block the SU deterioration now and here? And then it has to be up to the government to cancel the settlement. Can we get that guarantee from the Socialists?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906102630	We must try to keep to the speaking time, as it will be a long day with many questioners. Here you go, sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906102636	Thank you, President. Then I shall be brief. After all, we do not want to go into a reform which requires funding taken from that area. But it is also clear that we cannot prevent the government from doing so if it chooses to terminate a settlement. I think it would be very, very unwise of the government to do so, because generally speaking, this country is built on consensus democracy and broad conciliation. It would be common sense to stick to those conciliations.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906102702	Thank you. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906102708	The rhetoric that Mr. Benny Engelbrecht now applies to a possible future relief of the top tax, very similar to the rhetoric that Mr. Benny Engelbrecht and the Social Democrats used the facilitation of registration tax, which was implemented by the Finance Act for this year. So, it is very, very bad to lighten the top tax, it was also very, very bad to lower the registration tax. Nevertheless, the Socialists have announced that, after an election, if you have power, as you have observed, you will not raise the registration fee again. - Sir... Benny Engelbrecht here and now say that the relief of the top tax, as Mr. Benny Engelbrecht actually believes that is not neighborly, will the Social Democrats cancel after an election if the Social Democrats should win the power of government? Well, there's an appropriate relationship between the rhetoric that Mr. Benny Engelbrecht now spends on how terrible top tax relief is and so that the Socialists can say that if they come to power, they will cancel the top tax relief?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906102812	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906102814	Now I had just looked forward to, after Mr. Anders Samuelsen announced that it was no longer about economic arguments and things like that, but that it was only value policy that was crucial to the Liberal Alliance that we could then have an elegant battle about it fair enough. In general terms, in relation to what may happen after an election, we do not present it at this stage. After all, we have no idea when there will be an election, we do not know whether, after an election, there will be a government led by the Social Democrats, we do not know when we will be responsible for that country again. That is why we have to say that priority must be given to the things which this government might introduce, which we may have to rectify, when we are faced with an electoral situation and have to present it to the electorate. At any rate, we cannot do that at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906102903	Here you go, sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906102905	That's nice. I think that everyone who listens to the Socialists should know that, in other words, when the Socialists use a very tumorous rhetoric about how crazy it is to lighten the top tax and that it is not neighborly, that does not mean that the Socialists will raise the top tax again. It is, of course, because the Social Democrats know very well that it is wise for the Danish economy to lower the tax on the last crown earned. The Social Democrats just want some others to do it. And if someone else does, the Socialists will not cancel that resolution, but simply rejoice that some have benefited the Danish economy and that the Social Democrats can live with a better economy if the Social Democrats get back into government.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906102943	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906102944	No, I guess so, sir. Ole Birk Olesen has heard wrong. We do not want an agreement on top tax relief to be drawn up, and that is why we are, of course, also happy to enter into broad agreements. I understand that would not be an agreement, as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen's party is part of everything.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906103001	Then it's mr. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906103005	Thank you. I was pleased to hear that the PES was just mentioned in the rapporteur's speech. This is the support system we have, which is quite well-linked and which supports the establishment of renewable energy sources. It is financed by a tax on energy consumption, so that it is also reduced. Unfortunately, the government will try to abolish this scheme, and we are very concerned about that. I hope that it will not succeed, but there is a potential risk of that. Therefore, I would like to ask the Social Democratic Party: if you regain power after an election, will you put in place a PRS system or a similar system again, should it be abolished in this round?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906103053	Thank you. And you don't use direct charges. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906103056	Thank you, President. After all, we are well aware that the challenge of the PSP as it stands today must be solved. That is also what I said in my rapporteur's speech. I can also read from the government's proposal that the funding, which is well written, is taken from the scope, because in reality it comes from abolishing the green cheque. This means that people who earn less than DKK 379,900 will pay for the abolition of the PSO. This is a rather strange way of doing it, I think, frankly; it must be done differently. But we want to take responsibility in this autumn to find a lasting solution to it, but it is also clear that it must be a fair and fair solution which does not affect pensioners and low-wage groups in particular.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906103150	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906103152	Thank you. That sounds good, and I take that as a relatively positive message. The government believes that the money can be found in the annual budget debate if the PSO system is abolished, and we see here in the proposal that no money has been found corresponding to the cost of the PSO today. So there is a need both for the problem to be resolved here and I hear a certain commitment to this, that is, that the Social Democratic Party would like to take on board but also a need for a long-term solution to be found if the system were to disappear altogether. Are both things the rapporteur can answer yes to?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906103232	Here you go, sir. Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906103234	In fact, there are a number of unaddressed issues in the government's presentation, as Mr. René Christensen very rightly called a discussion paper. This concerns, among other things: on the question of PRS, which has not been answered, because funding through the scope is not really a solution in this context. But there is, for example. also the issue of property taxation, which is unaddressed, and we are here today debating finance law and 2025 plan, without the government having yet put forward a proposal on what should happen in the area of property taxation. So in many ways we actually grope a little blindly yet, but it is clear that we would like to enter the negotiating rooms for both PRS and property assessments.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906103319	Thank you. Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906103322	Thank you and thank you for the rapporteur's contribution. On the radical side, we are also very concerned about being able to give a Denmark that is even better than what we got, just as generations of Danes have done before us. And in this context, just when we are talking about the future of our children, there are two things that I did not really hear the rapporteur mention and that he might like to clarify here. One is the massacre which the government is setting up in relation to our green transition, and which I have understood in a previous speech that the Socialists will also fight against, just as you are in favour of the energy reconciliation that we have jointly set on our feet and do not accept the deterioration. The second is the poverty benefits, which we have also stood shoulder to shoulder in combating, which I assume that the Socialists have now included in their proposals for negotiations, because of course we do not believe that there should be so much deterioration in the benefits so that thousands of Danish families cannot afford to give their children proper upbringing. However, it would be nice to clarify the two points, including the fact that funding has been set aside for this at the Socialist level.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906103428	Here you go, sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906103429	Let's start with the green switch. It is quite clear that we must first of all insist that the government abide by the current settlement. I must admit that I am astonished at the signals sent by the government, which, for example, cast doubt on the energy conciliation and the conversion that is there. This means, among other things, that the business community and those who invest in the green transition • those who help to secure thousands of jobs to Denmark cannot count on what the government is up to. It's very inappropriate. This is causing so much uncertainty. So it is quite essential, in the opinion of the Socialist Group, that we resolve this challenge. It is indeed a question of financing, yes, but it is also a question of respecting the settlements reached, which there is a long tradition of compliance with in Denmark. My speaking time has been exhausted, but I am sure I can have a follow-up question on the other.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906103532	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906103534	Thank you for a clear answer in relation to the green one. The second question was about the poverty benefits that the government has introduced and which I understand the Socialists are also opposed to, namely whether we can also stand shoulder to shoulder to ensure that all families with children in Denmark have a decent level of living and to end those poverty benefits. Will the Socialists help to find the economic room for manoeuvre needed to do so when this government is not there at some point?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906103604	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906103605	It is clear that what happens after an election, we will always take, as I also said to Mr Beazley. Ole Birk Olesen, as we approach a choice. However, in relation to the government's 2025 plan, a number of imbalances have been proposed which we do not believe are necessary, including in particular: because we do not believe there is a need for tax reform at all. By the way, Mr. Martin Lidegaard also asked a question about training ^ or at least touched on it and there I would like to stress that of course we do not understand the slaughter of the courses either. We then choose first of all, in the negotiations we enter into, to give priority to freeing vocational training from cuts.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906103645	Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906103648	Thank you. I would also like to ask a little about education and I am very pleased that the Socialist rapporteur clearly says that it is the wrong way to put such huge cuts and savings in education at risk, because that is what we must live on in the future. Now the rapporteur himself mentioned that efforts will be made to keep savings on certain training courses free, but in relation to the SU, both the FTF and the Workers' Association's Employment Council and many other studies have been carried out which show that social mobility will suffer badly. It will also cost on the bottom line, a survey says 3 billion. kr., because there are especially young people from non-academic families who do not want to take an education to the same extent. So I would like to ask the rapporteur: can the Socialists agree to an agreement which cuts the SU so much for everyone, both for those who take professional training and for those who take long-term education?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906103747	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906103748	I am so pleased that the focus is on what it is like to find the money for the tax reform that the government has put forward, because it presents a wide range of challenges. The SU, mentioned by the SF rapporteur, is indeed a challenge, but there is also the question of asking people to work longer and retire later. Overall, therefore, our conclusion is that we do not believe there is a need for tax reform, and therefore there is no need to make the unpleasant things that have been proposed in connection with the SU and retirement age. On the other hand, what we want to do is to strengthen prosperity, to strengthen growth and jobs and to ensure an upgrading of skills. We therefore believe that this can be done within the scope of the government itself, that is to say, those of almost 40 billion people. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906103839	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906103841	Thank you. In general terms, the SF agrees with the Social Democrats on these priorities, i.e. that precisely upgrading and training and further training are absolutely essential to ensuring that we are in the future. Just to understand the rapporteur quite correctly: will the Socialists not agree to SU degradation because it results in lower social mobility and will affect especially young people from non-academic families? Is it correct to understand that the Socialists will not agree to this because it is the wrong way to go? The Socialists themselves also have other sources of funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906103918	Thank you. I'm gonna need a little quiet. There is no point in the rapporteur not being able to hear what is being said in the Chamber. So let's get a little quieter in this room to the right of me. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906103932	Thank you, President. Well, as I said, we are not going into the negotiations at all with the aim of making a tax reform, and that is why we do not need to make a financing, such as for example. will be about cutting down quite significantly on the SU with all the issues that have naturally been raised in the public debate about what such an action will entail.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906103958	Thank you. Then it's mr. Brian Mikkelsen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906104002	There are over 2 million homeowners thinking: what is happening now with the negotiations on property valuations and new housing taxes? In a municipality like Ballerup, where I grew up and went to school for many years, an average of DKK 28,691 is paid. alone in the ground debt of an average house alone in the ground debt! It is suggested that, year after year, there will be an increase in the basic debt of DKK 1,500, which you will have to pay after tax. In Rødovre you pay 25,000 kroner after tax, and in Gladsaxe you pay 25,000 kroner after tax. in cuts, and it's just a reason. So the relevant question for the Socialists will therefore be: what are the plans for housing? Will you help to ensure a real housing tax stop after 2020 as well? I think there's a lot of people out there thinking about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906104059	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906104101	We Social Democrats continue to support the offer that we made to Mr Seligman. Lars Løkke Rasmussen during the 2015 election campaign about a continuation of the freezing of the property tax until 2025.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906104114	Sir. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906104116	This also applies to other rising housing taxes such as: the property value tax, which, in comparison with the land debt, is being allowed to rise? The property value tax is locked in crowns and ears, but the land tax increases 6-7 per cent. a year. So what you as a homeowner in Ballerup, in Rødovre and in all sorts of other municipalities are thinking about is whether you can afford to stay, not because of what the value of the house really is, but because, despite a so-called housing tax stop, housing taxes are allowed to rise year after year. So my question to the Socialists is whether they are prepared for a real housing tax stop so that taxes are not allowed to rise so that you can stay in your house with your children and you do not, while they are out playing football in the garden, have to sit and have a stomach up over whether the children and the family should move from that house.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906104157	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906104158	So, as I said, our position is the same. Our position is the same as it has been all along, but what is the challenge here, I would like to say to Mr Seligman. Brian Mikkelsen, we don't actually know what the government is bringing in. We can see that the Minister for Finance has proposed that housing tax should not be maintained after 2020. So I can understand the uncertainty there is. The interest allowance will be tampered with. We do not know what is included in that proposal on property valuations, and that is why, of course, we would like to see the specific proposal before we begin to deal with the overall package. What I am saying is that our position is the same as before the elections, and the offers we made to the then opposition leader, whom the opposition leader did not accept, are, of course, still behind us, but we do not know what the government intends to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906104252	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906104256	Thank you. Last year we were a few who came to make us a little merry that the Royal Danish Social Democratic Party presented a plan without figures apart from page numbers and years. This has been attempted this year by bringing forward what the rapporteur calls a more simple plan. Well, thank you, a so-called non-existent plan based on the belief that the sleeper does not seem to sin. Then you get rid of critical questions too. But we must, I understand from the rapporteur's speech, be more skilful, richer and fairer here in the Kingdom, and that is a wonderful thing, because such a plan has been put forward by the government, and it is wonderful if the Socialists are in this way involved. When I have such a little doubt as to whether the Socialists are in favour of it, it is because it is incredibly difficult to find out what the Socialists really want. Some questions have been asked in this Chamber and I quote from the rapporteur, who says that he has not really understood the purpose of the government's plan; it is thus to provide room for manoeuvre, so that we can afford to be richer, more capable and fairer, but the rapporteur cannot answer what public growth should be. I asked Mr. Jacob Jensen about. Sir. Mr Ole Birk Olesen asked whether there would be any reduction in registration tax and top tax; nor can the rapporteur answer that question. Can the rapporteur answer whether the 225-hour rule, the ceiling on cash aid, the integration allowance, the savings on culture, research, climate and development aid will still be abolished and the actions of the Train Fund DK implemented? Do you want to do these things?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906104422	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906104424	I'd like to say to Mr. Uffe Ellemann-Jensen, that what we are saying here is that we do not understand the government's plan because the government's plan is to create room for tax relief. Then we say it's a bad idea. Let us take the tax reform, put it aside and then concentrate on the barely 40 billion. kr., as there is in that room. And sir... Mr Ellemann-Jensen did not just confirm that according to the government's own plan there are nearly 40 billion. kr. In that room?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906104456	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906104458	I admit that this was a long speech, so the rapporteur apparently did not understand my question, and I regret that. But what I was asking was whether all these things which the Social Democratic Party has been out to promise would still be gone, because then I can tell the rapporteur that it cannot be accommodated within this 40 billion. kr. So, first of all, will all these things continue to be carried on? Secondly, does the rapporteur think that anyone should take Denmark's largest party seriously if one does not even want to present a single figure as a basis for a debate on finance law?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906104531	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906104532	Since mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen will not answer whether there are nearly 40 billion. kr. In the room, I understand that that is correct. Thank you. That is why it is quite simple that within the barely 40 billion. kr. will give priority to the proposals for better welfare, growth and jobs and skills that we have put forward. It's really no different than that. Whatever happens after a parliamentary election, we take in connection with such an election. And that's it, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen would like an answer. What we are saying is that we are entering into the negotiations on a 2025 plan with these priorities to distribute the resources that exist within the government's own margin of manoeuvre.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906104611	Then it is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906104614	Thank you. An old proverb says that you should not throw stones when you live in a glass house. That is why I would like to ask a question about tax relief. After all, it was the Social Democrat-led government that led the 2012 tax reform, where the Social Democrats gave tax relief and just took away from those who had the least, and that is to say people with disabilities, people on transfer income, precisely to give tax cuts. Then the rapporteur understands that the Danes may be in doubt about where they have the Social Democrats in relation to tax cuts, and will the rapporteur confirm that the Social Democrats were in charge of the 2012 tax reform, which took away from those who had the least?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906104700	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906104701	There was a temporary regulation, which I also mentioned in my reply to Mr. René Christensen, and it should be temporary because we do not want to make it permanent, as I have also made clear. The fact that we lifted 250 000 people out of the top tax, people who have ordinary income from work, is not bad. Where the top tax limit will be in 2022 is a good and fine place, because you have to make more than DKK 500,000 popularly. to get in and pay top tax, and that's an excellent cut. In addition, we also solved a number of challenges in relation to what the government is talking a lot about now, namely that it must be worthwhile to work. This challenge has been overcome by the fact that the employment allowance has just been increased. That is also why we are saying that there is no need to go in and make a major tax reform as it now stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906104756	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906104757	I understand the rapporteur's answer that, when it is the Socialists who are in power, tax relief is something that the Socialists are in favour of. You took up to 10,000 kroner. Every year from people who have a disability or are less developed, in other words people who are really hard hit and do not have the same opportunities as healthy people. I just want to hear: do the Social Democrats regret the 2012 tax reform or are the Social Democrats still in favour of tax cuts, as they did in 2012?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906104833	Sir. Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906104834	I'll try to answer back, but it'll probably be the same thing I just answered. With the tax reform that was in 2012, we solved the challenges we thought there were in relation to whether or not ordinary hard-working people should be in the top tax system. And the limit that is now there is where it should be. Not least, we gave a large amount of employment allowance to ordinary hard-working low-paid people, and that is quite essential. However, we do not think there is a need to go down a path where we are making a new tax reform. I also hope, of course, that we can get an indication from the Danish People's Party about what the position of the Danish People's Party is. I am aware that the party's rapporteur will be coming up here shortly, and we will of course be much wiser on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906104926	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906104927	Now I could listen to the rapporteur's speech that there was not so much sustainability and climate considerations, but there were some tasks of duty and there was mention of the PSO. I would like to know whether the Social Democratic Party can see a solution that is socially balanced. I listened to the fact that the abolition of the green cheque was not on the Social Democrats' wish list. And we are faced with a task where we need to find a solution and where the government wants to abolish the PSO and abolish the need for business to contribute. I would very much like to see us, too, in the sustainable transition towards the future, making every contribution and everyone having the benefits of the sustainable flow that we can produce in Denmark. So I would like to know whether the rapporteur can see the outlines of the fact that we could come up with a solution which is socially balanced and which still leads to business paying for the sustainable conversion in the form of some form of tax or the like, as has been the case so far, where the business community has contributed approx. 60% of the PRS payment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906105029	Here you go, sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906105030	In the spring, we were engaged in extensive negotiations in this area, precisely to ensure that we can maintain the high level of green ambition with the many jobs that are involved. And the green conversion must be financed, that is true. But these negotiations were interrupted by the government, which felt that it should then be linked to the course we have here in the autumn. This has created a number of uncertainties, unfortunately, among others. in connection with a number of tenders for specific projects. The government must take full advantage of its cloak that such uncertainty has been sown. However, we Social Democrats were in the negotiating room to address the particular challenge that Mr. Soren Egge Rasmussen also mentioned finding this balancing solution. Unfortunately, we have to note that there are a large number of questions that we asked, as Enhedslisten asked, and which other parties' rapporteurs raised in this regard, to which we still need answers. So what we really need is a government that gets into the work clothes, and we must hope for that now. Because we're not gonna solve anything by sitting here and discussing whether we want anything or not. But we have indicated that we want to help find a solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906105152	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906105153	Thank you. It is true that we have ended up in a situation where climate policy goes out there and you do not know who is the master, and that is disastrous. It has been observed that the investment climate, which has otherwise been stable in Denmark, has been destroyed. A number of players will not make investments in Denmark in renewable energy. We are in the middle of an invitation to tender, and it is five days since three consortia have submitted a tender. Normally, you can draw a conclusion in 10 days. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether he has any ideas on how, in relation to the energy conciliation where there are five parties wishing to implement the coastal mills, we can ensure that the supply is concluded in a positive way quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906105234	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906105235	In any case, it must be said that if things go wrong, then we can only point to one person responsible for it, and they are the ones sitting at the top of the table, that is to say the government. After all, it is they who have brought it up to this point when no clarification has been made. But yes, we want to help find solutions in this area too, and that is why we naturally also hope that the government will put forward a rapid solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906105301	Thank you. Then it's mr. Erling Bonnesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906105305	Thank you. The Socialists openly say that you have no plan. I don't know. I don't know. When we ask how we are going to finance different wishes when we want to roll back savings, we refer to the withdrawal of a room for manoeuvre from our plan. Okay, fair enough. If we then think a little forward and on the basis of what is the answer now, then significantly higher public growth will take a good part of the room for manoeuvre to which the rapporteur refers. Then you can ask the question: what is left of investment in, for example, the United Kingdom? highways and other things? I also understand that we would like to continue with the Train Fund DK How is this to be the case? There is obviously no idea that we should have some motorway extensions in Denmark. Is that how it's supposed to be understood? Is that what the Socialist Group's draft plan says about the fact that we should not have motorway extensions?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906105355	Thank you. Sir. Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906105357	First of all, thank you to Mr. Erling Bonnesen to confirm that there are barely 40 billion. kr. in the scope of the government's 2025 plan, and yes, that is exactly what we are starting from our priorities in the forthcoming negotiations. And it is really not so difficult to say that that is what we are starting from. Then there are some things we won't do. And when we do not want to do it, we also need to get less money. When we do not want to make a tax reform, there is no need, for example, to ask people to retire later or, for that matter, to give students less money in the SU. Sir. Erling Bonnesen is very busy with highways. I'm guessing it's highways on Funen, sir. Mr Bonesen is particularly concerned about this and is not, of course, part of the government's own deliberations. I have great respect for the fact that you are fighting for your local initiatives. I just have to say that it is not the case that it is either public transport or other investment in infrastructure that this is all about. It's gotta be both-and-so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906105506	Thank you. Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906105507	But the rapporteur is quite right in saying that we must complete the West Funen motorway. I once thought that the Socialists wanted to be a part of this, but that is obviously not the case. Then the rapporteur is now trying to answer that there are some things you do not want to do. Then we will not implement the tax cuts, but when we look at and see how much tax relief really is, then the sums can not cope with just about any of the wishes that are in the country in relation to motorway expansions, if there is also to be what the Socialists are giving more priority to, namely the Train Fund DK. So I think that picture is a little crazy when you try to talk your way out of it. I understand that there is obviously not really any desire for us to have those motorway extensions around the country, or also the Socialists owe it to them to give a slightly clearer answer on how to find the money for them than what we have heard so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906105557	Thank you. Sir. Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906105559	So what we are talking about is not funding, is the government's proposal for tax reform. It has nothing to do with the other elements just to make it quite clear. That is also why what we will be discussing when we enter the negotiating room is how we can promote our priorities, among other things. the question of qualification, including: the question of how to ensure welfare, how to ensure growth. That is what we are going to give priority to when we enter the negotiating room and, as I said, within the scope available.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906105631	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906105635	Thank you to the rapporteur, and there is really a positive indication from this in relation to the answers given by the rapporteur. I think that is a good thing, compared to the fact that the 2025 plan is turning its weight down, if I may say so. But what I would like to ask is really in relation to development aid, because we have not actually touched on that at all, and I did not hear the rapporteur touching on it. There is, of course, the problem that we here in Denmark continue to spend a great deal of money on our development aid on refugees here. I would really like to hear the rapporteur's position on this. How do the Social Democrats view this distribution, and do the Social Democrats think that distribution is fair, compared to what is used abroad and abroad etc.?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906105727	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906105729	The use of what is popularly called DAC methods, i.e. the application of OECD standards, is not a problem for us. But it is also clear that, as the situation has developed, we are now in a situation where there is at least the prospect of fewer refugees coming to Denmark. This is probably due, among other things, to the fact that it is not. the situation around Turkey, and that situation then means that, relatively speaking, less funding must be spent in Denmark on development aid and that more priority can be given to helping in, for example, some of the neighbourhood areas where there are quite major challenges. We would, of course, like to discuss this with the government in order to find out how to resolve it in a sound and sensible way. But the very principle of calculating according to the DAC methods is, of course, in order. There have been some discussions about whether the government then followed the existing principles, and in the Folketing it must always be the case that we can delve into and verify whether these models are now also suitable. But if they do, then there is nothing wrong with using international standards.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906105849	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906105851	Thank you for your answer. It should not be a secret that the alternative thinks that we should use more foreign aid outside the country's borders, and in fact do not use the DAC as much as it is really popularly called, that is to say, that they are used abroad. Will the Social Democratic Party maintain that we continue to use only 0.7 per cent. of GNP, or is it something that social democracy could go into and say that now we are raising our development aid after forthcoming elections?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906105924	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906105926	In the first place, we believe that there is a need for a greater degree of community effort. And in the long term, it is clear that it is sensible to set the objective of gradually increasing development aid. But I must also stress that we cannot present a proposal for this at this stage. As we approach a change of government, and if the Danes had to confide in government, we will of course also present a plan for our overall priorities in that area too.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906105958	Thank you. Then it's mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, and I think it will be the last rapporteur to ask questions, because then time has passed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906105959	Thank you. I understand if people get a little confused. So, in 2012, tax cuts to hardworking Danes who got up early and lubricated the liver pie sandwiches for the kids were important. Apparently, they aren't anymore. There should be no greater gain from being in employment. That is, of course, the way things look when you are no longer in government offices. The same applies to the indexation of transfer income. I understand that a temporary scheme of seven years is good, but that two years extra is bad. In other words, if it is to be linked in any way, one must be a very incarnate social democrat to see it. I think it is quite telling that for the second year in a row we have an opposition party that can neither present a financial bill nor an overall economic policy plan. I think what is being said is interesting, but I would just like it to be said clearly and honestly and openly. We agree that the level of ambition is lower and that there is less money available. But how much of the room for manoeuvre, if you do not do something, have the Socialists already made a mistake? If we are to deliver on what we have said, namely that we are opposed to the 225-hour rule, to the integration allowance, to the reform of cash aid and to foreign aid, then there is no 40 billion. kr. to what the Socialists want to do in the future, because you want to start with a big minus, but how big is it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906110129	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906110130	As we have said many times, it is indeed the case that we first put forward a priority for what might happen when we are going into government, before a parliamentary election. And it is also the case that we can expect that there will be a number of atrocities of various things that this government may introduce if we Social Democrats do not have the influence that may need to be corrected. That is why we cannot know what the total bill will be at that time. That is also why we are interested in entering the negotiating room and, for example, preventing unnecessary tax reform. Torsten Schack Pedersen may have time to listen to what I say but we would like to enter the negotiating room, because of course we can see that there is another and better way for Denmark than to give tax relief that is not available now. For Hanne, who is standing on the factory floor on Linak, does not actually want to pay the bill that the Left is printing for a rather modest tax relief.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906110235	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906110237	It's getting weirder and weirder. The money that the Social Democratic Party is talking about is not there, because it has been opposed to the provision of that room for manoeuvre. And then it would be honest to say: okay, if we do nothing, there is some money available, but we are already against it. But it is not honest to say that you have that money at your disposal when you want to use it in advance for something else. So if you have the ambition to create skills and create growth, then you have to help create a room for manoeuvre that can provide money for investment, create growth and create jobs. And then you cannot say that you will not define the room for manoeuvre that Social Democracy says you have. So you reserve the freedom to be against everything that has created the room for manoeuvre, but you think you can do the same. It's kind of dishonest.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906110331	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906110332	No, it's actually completely wrong. If you read the government's own proposal for the 2025 plan, the figure of just under 40 billion is shown. kr. quite clearly. What we are then saying is that we think it is unwise for the government, in addition, to provide funds for tax reform, for example. We do not think that there is a need for a tax reform. And if you don't, there's barely 40 billion. kr. This has also been confirmed by other rapporteurs. So it is not a question that, for example, if you say no to a later retirement age, there is not nearly 40 billion. kr. There is.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906110414	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no possibility for any more questioners. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. René Christensen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906110425	Thank you for that, President. Then we stand here for the negotiations on the 2017 Finance Act, but it is about something quite different. It's about the plan up until 2025. The Danish People's Party has seen the catalogue that has come from the government, and we see it as an idea catalogue. There is no doubt that I believe that very many parties have looked forward to the autumn coming. It's happened now. Then why have we looked forward to it? That's because there's a lot of work ahead of us. There's no doubt that this autumn would like to end with us getting our PESO under control. Why is the PSP important? It is because, for several years across the parties, we have agreed that the way it is screwed up has unfortunately run out of hand. We have been able to see that the PSP has been a growth brake for Danish business. As it is screwed up today, the PSO increases when the electricity price falls. In other words, in the rest of the world, competitiveness will be improved. Unfortunately, this is not the case in Denmark. Nor is there any doubt that we need to address the challenges of the PSP, taking into account the green transition towards the future. We think this is an important agenda, even when we look forward to 2025. Another thing that has been waiting for us and that has been a very long time is housing taxation. There is no doubt that this is a bottom-up task we need to solve. We have long had a housing tax system that has not worked optimally. We have been able to see that some pay too much, but unfortunately there is also a large group that pays too little. If we do not solve the challenge of housing taxation, we will create too much uncertainty in the housing market, and that will not be good for the recovery that we see now, not only in large cities, but also in the province, where prices have begun to rise. We need to get this straight. It's also part of what we're going towards 2025. So it is not the case that there is nothing to address this autumn. That is why we also think it is positive that the government has come up with an idea catalogue with a great many proposals in many areas, including the Finance Act for 2017. What is actually being discussed, and what has been discussed over the last 14 days and for that matter longer? These are top tax reliefs. Is that really the most important thing? Is it on the agenda from now on until Christmas and, for that matter, afterwards? We do not think so. After all, we are not a party that believes that the tax should be as high as possible. In fact, we think it should be worthwhile to work. We believe that the money that people earn in the private labour market and elsewhere must keep as many of them as possible by themselves. But we also want us to have a society that is well-functioning. We also want to have a welfare society that we know today. We've had a discussion about life-long medicine. Should you have a set of rules for who should have it and who should not? Should it be an age criterion that determines when people should not be given life-long medicine? We are too rich a society to have that discussion. That is why we are also glad that the government, which has gone to the polls on zero growth, has proposed that there should be a small, moderate growth towards 2025. We welcome that. There is a need for small, moderate growth in public consumption in order to maintain the welfare society that we know today and of which we are all proud. There is no doubt that one thing that challenges the welfare society that we pride ourselves on is non-Western immigration. There may be some who say that it says the Danish People's Party always. We do this because it is a bomb under our welfare societies. If you read the convergence programme that the government introduced before the summer break, you see that it is very clearly written that it is one of the biggest challenges, even after 2025. It is the case today that when there are 1,000 citizens with a non-western background to Denmark, 700 of them do not get into employment. You have to pay attention to that. The 700 of them come on passive support, and that is lifelong. How can you say that? Of course, you do statistics on the level of self-employment, so do people get to work? And of that group, only 30%. self-supporting. We can then welcome the fact that only 10,000 are going to Denmark this year. That's what you expect. But out of the 10,000, the 7,000 will not be self - supporting. Then you can say 7,000, 14,000 and then you can continue the merger. It's based on 10,000. So last year there were 25,000. Therefore, we would very much like to have a discussion with the government and other parties about the setup for non-Western immigration to Denmark. What setup should we have when refugees come to Denmark? We are talking here about 25 years of failed integration policy. Why not talk about what this is about? It's about stay and protection. These people are on the run. They must have residence and protection. Why not talk about those people, while they are here, getting a good stay, getting protection and also like training?• They can become stronger people.• Of course, the goal is that they have to go back to their homeland and help build it up when peace comes. I think it would be really good for Danish society in economic terms, and a lot of those who come to Denmark, I think, will also have a great deal of pleasure in being able to get back to their home country better equipped and also better educated than when they came to Denmark. We would also like that to be included in the discussions on the Finance Act and indeed the 2025 Plan. Another thing that is incredibly important is the treasure. We're a tax-financed society. We are talking about tax cuts and then SKAT can state that they actually have arrears of 93 billion. kr. They haven't been able to scratch that into the SKAT. So we have a pretty big challenge when we have a tax-financed welfare society. That is why we are also glad that the government has set aside some money for it. The real question is whether that is enough. SKAT's challenge is massive, and there is no doubt that one should have optimism and zeal back in SKAT, but we certainly also need a set of rules and some employees who work to ensure that we can of course have the welfare society that is tax-financed. A arrears of 93 billion. kr. I'm sorry, I'm saying this from Parliament's platform, totally crazy. One thing with which the Danish People's Party also goes to the negotiations is permanent border control. We never have the ultimate demands, but I would like to say here from the platform of the Danish Parliament that we believe it is necessary. There is no doubt that if we have permanent border controls and can do asylum treatment on the border, then we, and indeed the people who come here, are very much helping. It is paradoxical that you can come from a place many, many thousands of kilometres away, not from Europe, end up at the Danish border and say that you are a refugee. However, there have been a number of safe countries before, for example, reaching the Danish-German border. That is why we clearly believe that it must be in everyone's interest to have a permanent border control, a secure border control, in which, of course, the challenges on the border can be met. Another point that has been discussed a great deal in connection with this year's and, for that matter, last year's Finance Act is the car tax. There has been a discussion afterwards about who got the expensive cars. Now it was also the rich who were allowed to drive in better and safer cars. We believe, in fact, that we should not hold on to fighting down the percentage time and time again in the Finance Act. There are parties that want you to get safer and better cars for the Danes, including the commuters. For the Danish People's Party, it doesn't matter that you get them a little better and a little cheaper, even when you drive from the province to the city where the jobs are. That is why we would like some of the negotiations to look at car taxes. But it has to be done overall so that you do not just look at the percentage. You can look at, for example, the Norwegian model. This takes account of the type of vehicle concerned in terms of safety, environmental impact, etc. There is no doubt that this is positive. The Danish People's Party is pleased that we can see that the last relaxation that was given has not resulted in as much expenditure as expected. That is why we also believe that the time has come to take the overall debate on vehicle taxes. We need to create a new system in relation to what we know today. The Danish People's Party is going to negotiations on the Finance Act with some very clear targets on non-Western immigration and border controls. We are going to the negotiations on a 2025 plan with an open mind. And there is no doubt that we are facing challenges that we need to address. It's PRS, it's housing, and then we have a pretty big challenge with SKAT. Perhaps we do not believe that the solution is to add 1.3 billion. kr. On the table is enough for everything to be done. Maybe it takes more than that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906111422	Thank you, sir. René Christensen. The first question is Mr. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906111428	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. After all, our two parties, together with a number of other parties, are in the train fund circle, and we had a long dialogue earlier this year to try to help the finance minister through some of his challenges. We reached an agreement on 30 June, and what I would like to ask the rapporteur to do is to confirm the agreement we reached, which, among other things, was. This means that there are some elements that need to be incorporated into the financial law of the year, but which I note are not included in the elements proposed by the government. In other words, there is a lack of recognition of the agreement of the railway association.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906111515	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906111518	I would like to say that I think that the railway unions have been very responsible in relation to the Danish economy. There is no doubt that optimism was great in relation to oil prices when the Togfonden DK was created, and therefore a buffer of 5 billion was also created. kr. It has subsequently become apparent that it was not large enough. That is why, in agreement with the railway fund parties, a new proposal has been put forward, which in fact only translates into EUR 13.5 billion. kr. of the over 25 billion. kr. agreed. It is quite clear that this is the goal of the Danish People's Party, and if it does not just come from the Finance Minister to write into the Finance Act, there is no doubt that we will have to table an amendment here in the Folketing and get it in. What the parties behind the Togfonden DK have done is very responsible and there is no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906111602	Here you go, sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906111604	Thank you, President. I would just like to confirm that we are of course also interested in tabling an amendment to the Finance Act which ensures that the agreement of the railway association can be implemented. I also hear what Mr. René Christensen says that it is also ready for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906111634	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906111635	Yes, of course we are. In fact, I also think yes, one should be careful just to praise oneself, but there are a lot of parties in the Train Fund Denmark that the challenges, including capital costs, have been addressed up to 2025. So I think it is very responsible and that the Left and the government should also sign for the fact that the train fund parties have been so helpful to put it that way because one could have stood on the back legs and said that this is about 25 billion. kr. and that you hold on to that, but you haven't chosen to do that. In fact, it has been chosen to adapt it to the economic situation under which one works.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906111707	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906111710	I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his speech and also acknowledge the reception given by the Danish People's Party to both our financial law proposals, but of course also the overall plan, the 2025 plan. This is also confirmed here by the rapporteur's saying that they from the Danish People's Party go to the negotiations with an open mind. I think that is very commendable. Because, of course, we don't agree on everything. That is why we are two different parties and, like other parties here in the Folketing, we each have our own positions and our own priorities. That's the way it is. But to enter the negotiating room with an open mind and give a positive reception of what is being put forward by the government, I think we can sign for when the opportunity arises. I should like to ask whether the rapporteur finds anything rather striking. Now we heard before from the Socialists that they totally rejected any form of tax relief for hard-working workers; a party that usually prides itself on being a working party. I know that it is soon a long time since the workers, the employees, were actually represented, but does it not surprise the Danish People's Party that the Social Democrats have that position? I would like to ask whether the Danish People's Party does not agree with us that it should actually pay better to work and that giving a handful and tax relief to hard-working workers in the low-wage class is a good thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906111823	Sir. René Christensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906111825	It may well turn out to be such a woolly answer, because I agree that tax relief is not evil. We also think that when people go to work, they should get the most out of it, but that is the funding. Tax relief must be granted when you have the funding for it. And when you read the financing proposals, even in relation to the 2025 plan, a large part of the funding comes from changes, that is to say where the proceeds are found elsewhere. That is probably where the disagreement between the government and the Danish People's Party lies. That is not the objective on which we disagree. We have nothing against tax cuts, but there is the financing of them. Of course, you have to be open about that. There are some rather large thistles that we do not think are very interesting in terms of funding, among others. the tax reliefs.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906111905	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906111907	I think that's honest talk. I really think that is honest talk, because we will have to talk about that in the negotiating room. I do not imagine that our result will be complete, as the 2025 plan lays it out here. I doubt that. However, I think it is honest talk and good for the climate and the course of negotiations that we agree on the objective. And then we have to discuss which tools to pull out of the toolbox. Because I agree with Mr. René Christensen in that all the things that need to be made tax credits, investments in public welfare, other actions must be financed. I hope so too, and I know that the Danish People's Party agrees with me.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906111941	Thank you. Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906111943	We are very much in agreement with that, and the Minister for Finance has made it so clear that it must be financed crown-to- kroner. And then you can ask, where is the money to come from? That's what's gonna be politics. Where's the money coming from? There we just have to say that with the challenges that lie, there has just not been tax relief right now on our list. There we haven't seen that that was the most important thing. There we have seen that the most important thing was that we could finance the welfare society that we know forward. That is why we have also said that there is a need for moderate growth. That's what the Left brings too. We have seen that we face quite a challenge in relation to our PSP and our green transition. In fact, there is also a lot of money to be made available. How do we figure this out? And then tax cuts are something further down on our list. That, of course, is what we are going to go to the negotiations with.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906112023	Thank you. Sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906112026	Thank you, President. After all, the tax reform presented by the government does not just mean that old-age pensioners, early retirement pensioners and the unemployed are again being cheated of tax cuts. In fact, it means asking the pensioners, the early retirement pensioners and the unemployed to pay more in tax to finance tax cuts, among others. people with millions of income. This is the consequence of abolishing the green base payment, which some call the green cheque. I do not remember, but it may be that the rapporteur can help me that Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen during the election campaign toured Denmark and told that folk pensioners and early retirement pensioners had to pay more in tax. I do not think the rapporteur can do that either. But it is the Danish People's Party that decides whether this is going to happen or not, whether it is going to happen or not. So my question is actually quite simple: will the Danish People's Party guarantee that you do not put votes to take money out of the pocket of either folk pensioners, early retirement pensioners or the sick unemployed to finance that other people can get a tax relief, including people with very high incomes?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906112141	I suppose it was during the election campaign that the Prime Minister like Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen. Then it's allowed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906112152	That's good, we have to remember that. As far as the 2012 tax reform is concerned, it is also continuing over two years, up to 2025, which does not regulate income for pensioners and everyone else on transfer income. There is no doubt that the Danish People's Party did not vote for it in 2012, because we thought it was a bad idea, and of course we also think it is a bad idea in 2016 • of course we do. Then there are other things in it around the green check. There it is also very important how to get the PSP and other things screwed up in relation to that part of it. In other words, with a smile on his lip, there is also a little hokuspocus in it when you make these calculations on who it is that gains, because when the farmer gets a slightly lower electricity bill, he can produce his milk a little cheaper, and therefore it becomes a little cheaper out in the cooling counter, and therefore one on transfer income can buy a slightly cheaper liter of milk. It might also be that the farmer, who has had red figures on the bottom line for a very many years, might want a little black numbers if the electricity price fell. So there are a lot of things to be asked about in these negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906112251	Sir. Pelle Dragsted, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906112254	I think it was a rather woollen answer to a really quite simple question, namely whether the Danish People's Party can imagine putting votes to abolish the green bottom allowance, which, of course, applies particularly to folk pensioners, and which will mean that a folk pensionist couple will lose several thousand kroner a year. Will the Danish People's Party participate in this, or will the Danish People's Party not participate in it? When I ask and I'm a little worried, it's because by last Finance Act we saw the Danish People's Party accepting severe cuts on pensioners' housing benefits • cuts that are still in the Finance Act this year. That is why I believe that the pensioners who sit out there would like to have a clear answer as to whether they should sit and worry whether they will also get cut in their green cheques or whether they can be sure that there is no majority in the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906112340	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906112342	I'd like to correct something right away. If you look at the 2017 Finance Bill, you will see that there is no income from the housing service. It has actually been put in with a negative additional allocation. That means that the housing allowance is gone. There is no income from housing benefits. I'd like to say that. There is no reason, and certainly not on the part of the Enhedslisten, who apparently also wants to be the pensioners' party to tell them to be nervous about it. If you look at the draft budget, you will see that a negative additional allocation has been made. So there is no discussion about housing benefits. Should we not send that signal to those out there: do not listen to the empty barrels that roar?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906112418	Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906112427	I know sir. René Christensen as a calm and reasonable man with whom I am quite confident in negotiating finance laws. But Mr. René Christensen also has party colleagues, whom I would say is more over in the hot track segment. And these fellow party members are very upset that the Liberal Alliance would like at least 2.5 billion. kr. To lighten the top treasure. I'd like to ask Mr. René Christensen, who is different calm and reasonable: In light of the fact that the Danish People's Party has just been out demanding that up to 2025 35 billion will be spent. kr. More on public spending, Mr. René Christensen saw, it's crazy of the Liberal Alliance to ask for 2.5 billion. kr. to the cause of the Liberal Alliance?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906112517	Here you go, sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906112519	You could just answer yes, but now that the question is being asked so nicely and you think it is completely crazy, I would say: no, it is not completely crazy, but you just have to say when you sit and look at what challenges we are facing, it is not this that is being asked for. It is so that when we look at what it is that needs to be resolved towards 2025, I just want to say: the top tax is simply not on our list. That is not what we want to fund. Then, of course, as a party, you can have an opinion on it, and I also know that the Liberal Alliance wants to remove the top tax altogether. I just want to say that when you look at the revenue side, you can see that it is actually the case that the top tax contributes 18 billion. kr. per year to the welfare society • top tax alone. And that means that over a 10-year period it is 180 billion. kr., which the top tax finances, and it will then be the ones you had to finance from somewhere else. So no, it's not completely unbearable. What the parties want is so different, and that is fair enough. We're different parties. But it's not something that's on our note.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906112620	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906112621	I fully agree that the Danish People's Party has radically changed politics. Where, at the party's foundation, you were in favour of a maximum tax of 30%, you can hardly get enough tax now. I think there is an explanation problem there, but I agree that this has happened. What I am asking is: Given that the Danish People's Party wants and demands 35 billion. kr. more for public consumption and you have to sit around a negotiating table where there is another party that wants 2.5 billion. kr. more to that party's mark, it is then not a little exaggerated to go out and say something about childishness etc. because there is a party that likes to have 2.5 billion. kr. for its brand name... so when the Danish People's Party wants 35 billion at the same time. kr. more for public consumption?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906112705	Here you go, sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906112706	I don't think there's anything childish in politics. I think the parties can want what they want. But I would just like to say that the democratic process is that when you enter a negotiating room, it is called a negotiating room. And if everyone stands with their arms crossed and says: I will only go in there if I am sure of the result, then there is nothing to negotiate. Then we end up in a situation where we can never meet each other. What is fantastic about democracy is, of course, that we come with each of our prerequisites, sit around the table, have the fight • Sometimes the waves go high and like to end up standing outside the door saying: Yes, we have given and taken, but overall we think we have achieved a good result. That is the great thing about democracy, and I think we should stick to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906112746	Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906112749	Thank you to the rapporteur. What I would like to ask is all about education and investment in education, where what can be seen in the government's 2025 plan is to cut back on the SU. I would really like to hear the position of the Danish People's Party on that part, i.e. that the last part of the loan financed is made and the results that are in Norway, where you can see that they have a significantly lower implementation rate than we currently have. has in Denmark. What is the rapporteur's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906112825	Here you go, sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906112827	I recognise that there may also be a challenge with the SU. We can see that there are business academies where there are seats and where it is a hundred percent non-dancing, that is, where EU citizens go there. That is why we think it is quite fair to throw up that ball and say: Now in Denmark we have a special system of SU in education. On the other hand, we have free training, and on the other hand we have SU during the training. It is actually a system that we in the Danish People's Party are very happy about. We can just see that it is being undermined by EU legislation, which is why we think we would like to look at it. The model that the government has put forward is not quite certain is the model we should have. But the discussion on profit principles for social benefits, for SU and other things we are quite involved in, also in relation to the model of saying: 'Well, can we then deduct it from taxes?' For then we will also benefit from it if there is an EU citizen who chooses to take an education as a nurse in Denmark, because then the EU citizen can stay in Denmark for a period of time and pay his tax in Denmark. In other words, there are some positive ideas in it, but the pure form in which the government has put it must at least make some adjustments. But we think it is quite fair to take the discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906112938	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906112939	So that means that the rapporteur sees no problems in what we see, for example. In Norway, there is a significantly lower rate of implementation. I think it's somewhere between 50 and 60%. in Norway, and in Denmark we have an education of 81-82 per cent. Isn't the Danish People's Party worried it's gonna get that side?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906113002	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906113003	Now you cannot ask questions from here, but you could ask the opposite question: is it not a problem that we have classes where we use Danish tax dollars to train some young people? It is really good, they exist, it is a good educational system we have as from day one travels out into the world and use their education there? So, that means that Denmark does not get the benefit of the fact that we have trained those people. There we think it is fair to look at whether the tax system can in some way help to keep these people here for a period of time, so that the welfare society also gets something back. In other words, when you have received an education, we also get something back, and that education is then used in Denmark. And we are completely open to that discussion. Of course, the pitfalls must be taken into account, but we would like to be a part of the discussion about getting a benefit from the education programmes that are in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906113047	Thank you. Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906113051	Thank you. I also have two very specific questions for the Danish People's Party. For there are at least two areas where the government, with its proposal with surgical precision, hits right into the heart of the Danish People's Party. One has already been mentioned by Enhedslisten, and this is the green check that will be used to finance the abolition of the PRS in the Finance Act. But here I would like to ask: should we not try together to find a different solution to this by simply creating a new PSP scheme, so that business also pays their share and which is more socially balanced? In any case, we would like to take part in this, and that is a specific question. So we can spare the pensioners. The second is that today we can read that the changes on the children's cheques or child benefits proposed by the government actually hit aller als hardest in rural areas, for which the Danish People's Party and Radical Left usually fight, and which are of course an important area. Because if we start cutting down, especially out there in rural areas, where it already hurts, we will actually hit twice. So why don't we put a plug in that hole, too?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906113154	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906113155	I am happy to have the question of the green check again, because I did not get the answer on Enhedslisten on that either. There is no doubt that the green cheque, which the Danish People's Party has thus helped to counteract the bias in relation to the PSP, we would very much like to take part in looking at a solution for a solution where business, what to say, also takes their share of the burden, so that we can have a green transition that is fairly distributed between both business and citizens. For business is also getting a big gain from the fact that the PSO is being changed compared to what we have today. Today it is a brake, also in relation to business. That is not to say that I am going to put my head on the block and say that the green check is not being touched at all. You could imagine hitting a small corner if you get it done, but we have to go into that in greater detail when we start the negotiations. As far as child benefit is concerned, I would like to say that there are also examples of this, and we must recognise that this is being used as a means in relation to the very large flocks of children, because the money is so large. We would very much like to look at this, and we have made a proposal in the past that it should be to the maximum. three children, and we are also very open to looking at making an opportunity to fade it out quietly, compared to how much you get for the last child, for example, in addition to two, three or four children. These are some discussions we would like to take, and we say this honestly to the electorate as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906113316	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906113317	Thank you for the commitment to perhaps find a revised PRS solution. We would, of course, like to see a user system maintained, perhaps on the part of the company, and then another funding could be found for the citizens. I think we should talk about that, and I'd like to sign for that. I am not sure I fully understand the argument about child benefit. In other words, if it turns out that the families who have many children and thus contribute to the big plan for Denmark, namely that there will be more Danes and therefore also a larger economy in the country living in the country, and that we thereby hit the rural areas extra hard with what the government is proposing, should we not try to avoid that part of the government's plan?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906113400	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906113402	Now the challenge is simply that, unfortunately, the large children's flocks sometimes do not contribute so much. We can also see that the immigrant families in particular, because you have the cultural heritage that you now have, to have many children, among other things. Locks the women very firmly. Then you should not overlook the fact that you have a large economy, when you have a large group of children, also in relation to child and youth benefits, which, after all, runs all the way up to the eighteenth year. That is why there is no doubt that if we are to change the cultural heritage that some of these people have, we must also look at and make sure that it does not become a source of income which is so much in the economy that some of these families have. And there is no doubt that some immigrant families have a very, very large economy in relation to child and youth benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906113448	Thank you. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906113451	I think the rapporteur should say to the families at Mors and in West Jutland and in South Jutland up to South Zealand and all sorts of other places, which are often called rural, that they should have a different culture, they should not have so many children. It is 100,000 Danish families of children who are affected. That's really, really high That means you can't go on vacation. We need more children to be born in this country. I simply cannot understand DF's rapporteur, who says: there are some tasks for which money must be found. Yes, but in this plan, the money is found in the elderly, the worn out, the children's families, the sick, the unemployed. I can't understand when it says on DF's website "We stand guard over the weak" that it is precisely the groups that have to pay for the fact that it is especially the richest in North Zealand that have to have large tax discounts. Therefore, I would just like to hear from the rapporteur whether this plan has been put together in a way that allows DF to see itself in it, or whether the so-called social conscience of DF means finally saying: No, it is not these who have the least to pay?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906113622	Here you go, sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906113625	I do not know where the rapporteur has gone. We have clearly said that the financing part is where the big knots are. And then it's not a DF plan, it's the government that's come up with a plan. We call it an idea catalogue, and why do we do that? We do that because we think there are good things in the plan, and then we think there are things in which look really hard, and some of them are among other things. on the financing part. So I can at least confirm here that the social aspect that we are fighting for, that is to say that it must be socially equal, will of course also be fought for here. But from there on, to say that there has to be a special financial gain by having many children, there is a long way to go. I really hope that all parents have children because they want children and because they love their children and not because there is financial involvement in it. Must be what drives people to have kids. It should not be because you are receiving child and young people's benefits, and that is what can make it worthwhile. So it has to be said in relation to those large flocks of children, which now exist everywhere in rural areas, that it might be interesting to look at it. Of course you can find examples, and that is fair enough. We would also like to look at what kind of model we need, and we would like to look at whether it should be about numbers, whether it should be a phasing-out, but we would like to look at it, in that it should not be for money that people have children.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906113734	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906113735	Nobody's gonna have kids for the money. I do not know if the rapporteur himself has children. I believe that now, but you cannot finance winter boots and children's birthdays and football quotas and everything else for child support. This cannot be done, and especially not under this government, which has DF as a support party. Because not only are 100 000 families living mainly in rural areas affected, so it can really be felt, but 33 000 children are also made poor with the ceiling of cash aid that the Danish People's Party is helping to support. Isn't it time for DF to say that they actually want to live up to what they say they are, that is, a socialist party, and say stop?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906113817	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906113818	I just want to say that the Danish People's Party has helped to make free places, and that means that all these children, whether there is child and youth benefit or not, can come to football. Many parties also fully agree that there must be free space so that these children can go to day care, they can get to everything they want, whether there is child benefit or not. So I would like to say that when you figure out if you can get single benefits and all sorts of things in the municipalities, that is, subsidies for vulnerable families, you don't even count on child benefit. So it doesn't matter that now this changes everything for these kids. This will, of course, change something in relation to the economy. If you have seven or eight children and, for example, you end up on a model where you can only get three, then there will be some less money. But if you have so many children, the biggest source of income that the family has, if you are on cash benefits, is the child and young person's benefit. And it is not fair that we have families who come out in that when their children turn 18, their finances are overturned. Because that is really what is happening because the child benefit is so high.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906113913	Then it's mr. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906113915	Thank you, Madam President. I listened with interest to the rapporteur's speech on behalf of the Danish People's Party, and I noticed a wording; I heard that the 2025 plan was referred to as a catalogue of ideas, and it must be disturbing to hear for the Minister of Finance. But otherwise I have a question about whether the Danish People's Party agrees with the Social Democratic Party that when priorities are to be made up to 2025, it is crucial that funds for welfare are also given priority rather than tax relief, so that we can also have a good and well-functioning welfare society in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906113950	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906113951	We fully agree with that and that is why the starting point is also very good: that the government has moved from wanting zero growth to recognizing, however, that there is a need for small, moderate growth. After all, we have said that there is a need for growth of 0.8%, and others have actually confirmed that there is a need, even when we look at demographic developments. Well, we live longer. We also live longer with our diseases, which is why there is also pressure on, among others. medical expenses. So there we are in complete agreement. That is also why, with regard to this priority for tax relief, we will say that we are not against granting tax relief if there is money to do so. We are simply saying that in the room for manoeuvre now there is no room for tax relief; there is room for us to maintain the welfare society we know today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906114031	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906114034	That sounds good. There is something that I think is missing from the rapporteur's speech. It is when it comes to when people who have been on the labour market for many years should be allowed to retire. As a Social Democrat, I think that what has been played out on the part of the government is a pretty tough diet. That is why I would also like to hear and I am absolutely sure that the Danish People's Party also has a position on whether it really can be right to ask people to stay longer on the labour market in just a few years' time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906114102	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906114104	Yes, in the government's proposal, part of the source of funding is to raise the retirement age by six months. Then you can discuss whether 6 months is a lot or a little, but for some, 6 months will be the last. That is why we are saying that the reform that has been carried out and that raises the retirement age is actually part of us, so we are, in fact, on the goal. The rhetoric left in 2006 and so on was that when you change the retirement age, you have to do so with the very long light on, so that people can adjust to it, both in relation to their economy and in relation to their housing. That is why we think it is wrong to come in at short notice and say: now we are changing this. And we actually believe that you kneel a principle, and we are a little sad about that when you can change some agreements you've made that go far ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906114150	Sir. Jesper Petersen, Social Democracy, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906114152	Thank you. After all, much of the debate on both the Finance Act and the 2025 Plan focuses on the issue of top tax. I would actually just like to ask from some of the slightly different reports that have been from the Danish People's Party for confirmation that in the Danish People's Party too, we believe, as we do, that lightening the top tax is not the answer to the challenges that Denmark is facing at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906114217	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906114218	No, we don't mean that, and then we look back a little bit back in time, until when there were elections that long ago it wasn't actually; it was last summer and here I remember that at least the blue parties and also my own party, the Danish People's Party, chose that it should pay better to work, and the examples they took were among other things. low-wage groups. So if there is a room to give tax relief, it is at the wrong end. For then it must of course happen at the other end, so that it becomes more attractive to take a low-wage job and thus also so that in those professional groups where they may have a higher level of education, they will seek those positions. This will provide a better supply of work. When you hear that companies are talking about the lack of skilled labour, it is not always at the top, so it is sometimes also at the bottom, and a tax relief at the bottom would also help to remedy that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906114306	Sir. Jesper Petersen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906114308	I am very pleased with the confirmation, that is a very clear answer to the question of whether you are willing to make top tax concessions and whether that is the answer to the challenge. Sir. After all, Ole Birk Olesen was a little cheerful a moment ago at the expense of parts of Mr. René Christensen's party. I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur agrees with me that we can assign both Mr Beyer de Ryke's report to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Ole Birk Olesen, sir. Anders Samuelsen and Mr. Joachim B. Olsen to be in the hot track segment when it comes to getting the top tax relieved.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906114341	Here you go, sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906114343	I do not think I should put anyone in the booth, but I can at least confirm that I have no doubt about what the Liberal Alliance wants in relation to the tax negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906114352	Thank you. Sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906114357	It is true that in the sparsely populated areas of the countryside there are relatively most families with more than four children, and therefore there are most families who will be affected if the 2025 plan is implemented as it stands in terms of the deterioration of the children's check. After all, it is also in the sparsely populated areas that the least will benefit from a reduction in the top tax. What I hear from the rapporteur here from the platform is that the Danish People's Party does not refuse to agree to a reduction in the top tax and that the Danish People's Party does not refuse to agree to a reduction in the child's cheque. But can the rapporteur not confirm that if we do these two things at the same time, we will hit with great precision the very people who get the least out of a reduction in the top tax and who at the same time live in the countryside?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906114450	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906114451	Firstly, I would like to say that the Danish People's Party has not said that we want the top tax to be reduced. I would also like to say that the picture is simply wrong. If there was a room for manoeuvre and it was used to lower the top tax, it would not hurt those who have the least; they would just not benefit from it, but it would not hurt them, because they wanted the room for manoeuvre that they had yesterday as well, and which they will also have tomorrow. To the extent that, because you give someone something, it hurts some others, I would say that it only hurts the others if you finance it from there. What is the challenge of the plan here is to find funding in some other areas. You find it, among other things. by raising the retirement age, and then it is indirectly pensioners who are going to pay to lower the top tax. So I do not think it can be said that, because you lower the top tax, it goes beyond those who have the least. It certainly does not, because it depends on how to finance it. In connection with the children's cheque, we would just like to discuss it, and of course we would also like to ask about this, but we are not saying that the children's check cannot be touched. We say that we would like to take that discussion. Of course, we have a lot of questions about it in relation to doing something about it. We can certainly see some families around, for whom it is inappropriate to have the model that we have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906114556	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906114558	If you have a bag of money and choose to spend that money on lowering the top tax, that money cannot be spent on other things. That means, for example, that money. the welfare of rural communities where there is a very desperate need to improve the service will not be able to benefit. It may be municipalities in the countryside where we see that there is a high municipal tax rate, but where you also have a low level of expenditure if you compare with what the level of expenditure, that is, the level of service, is in the rest of the country. Therefore, one has to look at the fact that if one spends money on lowering the top tax, there are simply some other things that are not money for. In this sense, if you spend money on top tax reductions, they cannot be used on anything else. In this way, things are connected. That is also why I am worried when I do not hear a very categorical rejection by the Danish People's Party when it says that there is simply no money for lowering the top tax and that under no circumstances will it be included. The money must be spent on welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906114657	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906114658	I think it is important to say that we should also be careful not to speak the welfare society completely down, because Denmark does not look like that, if you live west of Valby Hill, the children go to bed crying every night and there is no light in the windows out there. Take it easy! It actually works quite sensibly, but then there are some things that need to be corrected in some places. That is also why we are saying that there is a need for small, moderate growth. With regard to this discussion on tax relief or the other, I would like to say that it depends on where the funding comes from. And what is the challenge with the government's plan is that a great many of these tax cuts come with redistribution, and that is where we have the discussion. If it was the case that the oil price had risen significantly and it seemed that it was pouring in with new fresh money, then I would just say from the Danish People's Party that we really do not mind that if you get up every morning and drive out with packages or you get up every morning and go down to Netto and sit in the box and fit it, you get a little more out of it. We have no objection to that. Unfortunately, there is just no room for this at the moment when we look at tax cuts.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906114756	Mrs. Annette Lind, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906114757	Thank you. The rapporteur said earlier that he could not support the financing of the tax reliefs that the government has. It is now the case that it is the families of children, those who are going to SU, and then the pensioners who are going to pay this bill. Is it the case that the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party can support a 2025 plan? We in the Socialist Group cannot do that. So will the rapporteur confirm that you cannot support a 2025 plan where it will affect pensioners and where you will have to spend half a year longer on the labour market?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906114833	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906114834	We have said very clearly that among other things. the sources of funding that are mentioned here, we do not want them to be so opposed. However, we fully recognise that it is good that we should discuss a 2025 plan, so where should Denmark be in ten years' time? It is quite legitimate to do so as a government, and it is also sensible to do so. Then we must bring the political process towards it. But there is no doubt that we do not want sources of funding for something that we do not actually believe is necessary. We have not seen society screaming for tax cuts. We have not seen those who pay top tax saying that this is the time to do something about top tax. What we have seen is that some have said that it is actually difficult to get skilled labour, especially for low-wage jobs, because the difference between passive support and self-reliance is so small. So if there was a room for manoeuvre we don't see that, and we also said that before summer, and we're saying that now, too, if there was money for tax breaks, then it should be used at the bottom and not at the top.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906114928	Mrs. Annette Lind, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906114931	Now it is the case that a margin of 40 billion has been calculated. kr., and it is after all some It is the case that if you raise the retirement age, it will affect the unskilled, and it will also affect the poor. The rapporteur now calls the plan a catalogue of ideas. Is it the case that the Danish People's Party will pull this out of the idea catalogue, compared to the fact that those who have been the longest in the labour market will not have to work this six months longer?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906114959	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906115001	Yes, that is definitely our goal. And when you pull it out, you also pull out some of the funding, and then there are some other things that cannot be done. Then, of course, we have some thoughts about, among other things. non-Western immigration, in other words, how to reduce the cost of it when we have such a low level of employment. Well, it just costs a lot of money. The last figure we have, just in relation to the integration effort, is over 16 billion. kr. a year. And then everything else comes on top of, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906115026	Thank you. Then it's mr. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906115031	Thank you. I would actually have liked to have asked the Social Democrat rapporteur about this, because I have a hope that the two large and in many ways honorable parties in Denmark could help take responsibility which I do not think is being taken today. This applies to the whole debate on the housing tax. The housing tax seems like a red cloth when you approach a choice, and has been for many years. It is dangerous to talk about because it creates insecurity in many people. However, I do believe that it is our responsibility as politicians to go in and create security by talking about the housing tax. Because when I hear the values mentioned by the rapporteur here, too, by the former Social Democrat, it is completely in line with ours in the Alternative. We want to create more equality in society, and the discussion about what we have actually built Denmark on, that is, our welfare model, where there are some people who should not be allowed to milk anything at the expense of others, I would really like us to get back. So I will ask the Danish People's Party how we could get you to contribute with it in the negotiations. Well, how can we get you to pick up the property tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906115131	Thank you. And I have to say once again that the Rules of Procedure do not apply directly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906115137	Thank you for that, President. I do not quite know what is in the question, because I sense that the homeowners are some people who can give some more tax because they are the rich. But I really don't think it is. It is the case that living in a parcel house is an ordinary form of accommodation, and we approve of it in the Danish People's Party. What is important is that we have a housing tax system that people trust and that people trust also goes further. In other words, when you buy a dwelling and most people's biggest investment is to buy real estate. Of course, you also have to know what it is you can count on over the period when you have to repay your property, as most of the Danes do. And we are obliged to do so. But we don't have that mindset that some people have that homeowners are rich. When you look at what the property owners also get made of renovations and other things, the turnover that the property owners create for Danish society, it is really positive with some home owners.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906115232	Sir. René Gade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906115234	I myself live in a owner's residence and do not really have any idea that sounds quite different from that of the rapporteur. What I am aware of is that both the wise men and the IMF and others. Confessing that the housing tax is geographically and socially biased, for example when we stop taxing property value. When we freeze it, we have a distribution of our tax burden that is very, very socially and geographically biased. So it's not because I think the landowners partout are some who are rich and need to be candyed. No, I just want you to look at the facts, so that it's very specific groups that have benefited from these property value increases that don't pay a corresponding tax. There I would like to hear the rapporteur if he could go in there specifically and say: yes, I recognise that there is a distortion.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906115321	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906115322	Well, that's where you have to be careful, because paper is thankful. It may well be that your property on paper increases in value. But then it's expensive when you have to buy it. Then it may be that you have a large debt in relation to your property. Maybe you lose your income or something. Or you become a pensioner and thus receive less income. And then I think it doesn't matter where you live... whether you live at Frederiksberg or somewhere else... you should be allowed to stay in your property. And there is no point in having a system where you do not know what your property costs will be in 5 or 10 years' time. Well, that's the discussion we're having. We live longer, too. We also live longer on our pension, where we have a small income. And there we can see in some places that the guilt and other things have increased and increased. And there are some of these people who can't actually stay in their homes. So you cannot say that it is socially wrong, because then you could say that there are some who can just pay more, and others in the province, for which it is a pity. No, because there may also be some who sit in places that may find that the housing is increasing in value, but that certainly does the cost in relation to being there. And there are some who have the challenges of financing it. So we need to create a system where you have confidence that you can stay in your apartment too, make a plan for your housing economy, both in 10, 15 and 20 years' time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906115431	Thank you. Sir. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906115436	That was actually something else I wanted to ask, but now the debate became just as interesting. For that situation, sir. René Christensen describes a situation which has arisen from a tax freeze, which was imposed under the guise of precisely providing the security for homeowners, as Mr. René Christensen calls for them to know what they had to do with and to count on their property tax. It has turned out to be false marketing, for they could not. The reason for this has been surprising for many and has increased, even at times when their house has fallen. That is why the big question is whether Mr. René Christensen agrees that it must be possible to establish greater security of the housing owners' economy than the tax freeze that has been guarded over since 2001.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906115519	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906115521	There is no doubt that the tax freeze has survived itself. In fact, for a long time it seemed as intended, but it has to be said that now, in relation to the root cause, there are some places where it has run out of control in relation to what the homeowners can expect from the future. That's why I think we have cross-party in here, after all, also in relation to the meetings that I have attended, an interest in how to knit this together. I would like to say from the Danish People's Party that the stones of the show I think you have to be more about just finding, because there are of course some challenges, and there are many models in play. Should taxation only happen when you shop the property? Should it rise continuously, etc.? That is why we are also a little sceptical about the fact that we are currently spending quite a lot of billions of dollars, which is three-figure billions spent on initiating the development of a system, even though we really have not decided politically what direction we are going to take. I think that is the biggest challenge at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906115616	Here you go, sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906115618	Well, then, I'm glad I didn't accept the offer that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl gave me during a final party leader round in the election campaign, where he came across the floor and wanted to shake hands on the fact that the tax freeze would last when we now agree that it has not provided security for the property owners. Therefore, I would just like to say that I think it is a very positive approach that the Danish People's Party has on this issue, at least now. And I hope we can find a model in which we can create security for pensioners who are also, that their housing taxes do not grow more than pensions, and that they should not experience that the root cause is driving them away from home and home. I think we can jointly find a much more sensible model for this than the one that has passed since 2001 and has had the support of the Danish People's Party, at least until now.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906115659	Here you go, sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906115701	When you look at housing taxation, I think it is very important to remember that if you talk to economists, they see a dwelling as an investment, and then you have to create a tax system that works so that you can pay off your money well when you have put it in real estate. But the vast majority of people who buy a home buy it because they want to live there and want to live there for a long time. Those are the things you have to weigh up against each other, and the most important thing for the homeowners... and there it probably doesn't matter what they vote... is: When I as a homeowner go out and take out the biggest loan that I'm going to make in my lifetime, and buy real estate, I also expect that in 10, 15, 20 years I will know something like this what my economy looks like. Of course prices can go up and down, but that's what's important in this exercise here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906115741	I would like to thank the rapporteur. Then we'll take a lunch break till 8:00. 13, and we'll start with sir. Jacob Jensen after lunch.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906130011	The meeting is reopened and we will continue the first reading of Bill No. L 192. We have reached the rapporteur on the left, Mr President. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906130031	This morning I got up with my children, got them dressed, fed them with my wife, looked out the window, the sun was shining, and I thought to myself: It's a lovely country we live in. I am incredibly happy to be born in Denmark. I am incredibly happy that my children were born in Denmark. It may not be a perfect country, but it is probably one of the best that exists in the world, and that is why we need to take good care of Denmark. I think we all agree on that. But we must not take good care of it through standstill and redistribution of existing room for manoeuvre, etc., but through development. We must also be able to take decisions with due care, not only for the sake of next year, but also, and not least, for the sake of the next generation. This is what we are elected to do not just go and cover ourselves and criticise the others, but lay out our own policy openly and honestly. After all, we are challenged in Denmark. We have more and more elderly people, and that is so far good that we live longer and longer. We have fewer working people. We have falling revenue and increasing expenditure pressure on public funds, at least if we do nothing. But if we do a little now, we can actually secure our country for the future and make ourselves richer, both economically and socially. If we don't do anything now, then we'll have to do all the harder at a later stage. So, of course, does the government have to present any 2025 plan at all? No, I guess we don't. We have to make a Finance Act, it's in the Constitution, but no one's asking us to do a 2025 plan. It might also be easier not to, but it would not be particularly responsible. It would not be particularly responsible for the coming generation. Therefore, I would also like to acknowledge the way in which a great many parties here in the Danish Parliament have accepted the plan on both the Finance Act, but also, and not least, the 2025 Plan. Of course we are different parties, that is why we are, yes, in different parties. We are also different in blue camp, and we are different in relation to red camp. However, I think there is a common crowd when we look carefully and look a little beyond such a political duck pond. I do not really believe that there is a majority for any point in isolation from our 2025 plan. Otherwise, somebody's gonna have to make me smarter. However, I think that a common quantity can be created precisely if you look at it in a whole and not just look at that point by point. I have, of course, noted that, for example, the Liberal Alliance has some very significant and skilfully communicated and important views in the area of taxation. I absolutely share the ambition that we should reduce our taxes on labour income, both at the low end of the income scale and at the high end. After all, we now have a labour market and a tax system in which there are some 100,000 people who have a very small gain from being at work at all. We have a high tax in Denmark, which helps to curb growth, in relation to what else we could have got, and thus also the investments and sources of income that we all want to invest in the welfare society afterwards. I also noted that the Conservative People's Party has some well-communicated, strong views... also far along the way right views on housing and taxation, where the Conservatives can see that there are some challenges, compared to the fact that with the current system there is great insecurity about the housing owners' economy. There must be more security, there must be more fairness about the housing owners' economy, and I fully agree with the Conservative People's Party in that. I have also noticed, of course, that the Danish People's Party has some striking views, and also the skillfully communicated, in the field of foreigners. It is also an ambition that I share that we must take good care of our country through a strict immigration policy. That is why, of course, I am also pleased that in the plan that we are now putting forward, there are various elements ■ many elements for the adaptation of the territory of foreigners, among others. a emergency brake, but also that we put a great deal more and historically in the area of close-up, where it is, of course, that we can help the vast majority of people in need. I would also like to acknowledge that the Radical Left has accepted our plan here primarily, not only in the area of pensions, but also in the area of pensions. The fact that we are proposing to adapt our retirement date to what has actually been adopted by a broad majority in the Folketing, namely that an average of 141⁄2 years of retirement should be calculated, has the Radicals taken down and endorsed, and I would like to return that. Of course, we need to set up our society in such a way that those who can work can also contribute a little more • 6 months we put up with courage in return that we can then better afford to help those in our society who cannot, but who need community help. The Socialists may have spent most of their time on, of course, I do not know if it is a matter of course, but that is what we have done to tell you about what we do not want to do. But fair has to be fair. In fact, I also think that the Socialists have suggested, perhaps primarily on the issue of the upgrading of the workforce, where you have some views and some ideas on how to do it, and I think that is very, very positive. This is also a point on which we share the ambition and where, with our plan, we have also given priority to precisely that view, but also to it by means, because of course it requires resources. I mean, things are connected. But the good thing about it is that all the parties have come out with their main messages, but they are so, I can reassure with, addressed to some extent in the overall overall plan, because that is how it should be seen, namely as an overall plan and not just an isolated tax proposal or aliens or labour market proposals, but a comprehensive plan for Denmark, a plan that can make Denmark richer and stronger for future generations. So there are different building blocks in our plan. I think most people in this Chamber will be aware of this, for example, that it should pay better to work, that we should have lower taxes on labour income, and let me just mention in this connection the proportions where we are going to spend 3 kr. I think that, on reducing the tax on low incomes and not on this very much, we have had a bad discussion that has taken place, that it was for top tax only. It is with focus on the low income groups, but where we also focus on those who pay a little more, which we also need in our society to make an effort, put their labour in Denmark. We have a building block with growth and jobs, the ambition to get 250,000 jobs in the coming years with various elements in the business sector, make the framework conditions better and more attractive to create those jobs in Denmark instead of, for example, in Germany or Poland or elsewhere where we have seen it in recent years. We have a building block in that we want to increase the room for manoeuvre, not only have the current room for manoeuvre and then distribute it, but we have a greater ambition that there must also be something for future generations, including future generations' politicians, to make policy on the basis of, so that we increase the room for manoeuvre, but we do not actually use all the room for manoeuvre. We are suggesting that there is a large reserve for unforeseen expenditure. We also want a building block for precisely investment in the extra room for manoeuvre, so that we can obtain investment in our core welfare, in health, in the area of the elderly and children, education, but also in the safety of our people, for police, preparedness, defence must have additional resources so that, in the troubled world we live in, we can feel safe at home. The flow of refugees must be controlled. As I said, we have emergency and immediate action. There must be better education, a more robust SU system and then, finally, and I think that is an important building block, we are also putting forward a discussion if we cannot get more people with whom they are not now saving up for their old age, but where that way can minimise the inequality between those who today have nothing beyond the basic pension, and then those who receive a great deal of their pension through occupational pensions and other things. I would say that I believe that those who are my age will remember the famous soccer commentator Svend Gehrs when, in connection with the Danish national match in Mexico 1986, when we played against Uruguay, he said the famous words: that is brilliant, that. And when did he say that? Yes, he did, when Michael Laudrup dribbled with the ball around not just one, but two or three defenders, then bypassing the goalkeeper, and then scored a goal that ensured Denmark a victory of historical dimensions. It was brave of Laudrup to dribble around these different defense players. It was hard for him to keep his balance. It also required skill, it required courage and overview, not just to the next defense player, but all the way to the goal. I see some parallels to what we're doing here. In fact, I think that what is on the table is brilliant, and we are very happy to discuss the policy that has now been put forward on the left side. Of course, there is little more to be said than that, and that is why, of course, it would be nice to have a slightly qualified counter-play, and I hope and believe that when we get into the negotiating room we will get it in earnest and the smoke will have settled down a little after the first moments of tumultarianism here. Is our plan necessary? Not necessarily, but it is responsible, and that is why I would like to say here in the end that I would like to help make a plan so that I can say to my children and their generation that my generation added, we did not withdraw. We did not use their generation's opportunities to increase our own enjoyment here and now, and therefore I would like to make an overall plan, and I would like to make an overall plan, not just for next year, but for the next generation, a plan for a stronger Denmark, and I actually hope that there is a majority here in the Folketing who will be involved in that. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906131045	Thank you to the rapporteur. The first brief remark is from Mr. Jesper Petersen, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906131050	Thank you. Sir. Jacob Jensen believes it is nothing less than brilliant, and compares it with a Michael Laudrup score. I think that the reception of this plan by the people is so much more over in a Jesper Olsen return that leads to Spanish targets in the 5-1 bottom line. I think we are more in the category that I have at least seen. On the other hand, it must be given to the Left that they have shown a hitherto untamed mathematical creativity in presenting what the consequences really are of the tax policy that lies in the game. And with all the more or less hidden attempts at manipulation, I just think there is a need to establish whether the rapporteur can confirm the calculations that the LO has now made and which show that, as a result of the government's 2025 plan, a director will get an increase in his available amount in both crowns and ears and in percent, which is significantly greater than that which a typical LO worker, cashier or employee will get out of the tax policy that has been put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906131155	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906131158	I know there is an enormous amount of focus on the individual elements, but what has been put forward is if we just look at the tax part, as Mr. Jesper Petersen asks about the fact that, with the elements we put into our plan here, it is actually the long-term unemployed who, compared to the tax payment that will be paid, if our plan goes through by the way, will make the greatest progress tomorrow compared to today. And it is quite conscious that we have put the pressure there. Because we feel that it should pay better to work. I guess, too, and I actually think so, sir. Jesper Petersen agrees with me that one of the greatest social boosts you can give to a person is to ensure that there are jobs. And that is the second building block we have with us and, as I have also heard from the Socialists, on how we get close to it: to create some growth, to create some jobs. At the same time, however, there is also an economic carrot for those who are outside the labour market to go in and take the jobs that lie there. So that is why we have put pressure on that way, that is to say that we have put the majority of our tax relief proposals on low labour incomes. It's totally conscious.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906131302	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906131306	It's all very fine, but that's not what I asked. In other words, the question is: what are the effects on the individual, and the Left did not want to talk about that very much. I just think there is a need for it to come out honestly so that we can discuss it. Is it not true that a director with an income of 1 million? kr. Will a tax relief be made out of what has been laid out, which is ten times as large as that which an ordinary craftsman will get? This is what the LO has calculated on the basis of their members' income and which they can see is the consequence. Will Mr. Jacob Jensen does not confirm that this is the case? Then we can discuss it from there.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906131340	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906131342	It would be very useful if we could discuss what kind of proposals each of us has on this issue. I just presented our proposal. Does that mean that Mr. Jesper Petersen and the Social Democrats will not give tax relief to hard-working Danish employees? I think so, sir. Benny Engelbrecht confirmed earlier. I wonder, of course, if, as a working party, you do not have the best interests of the workers in mind and, like you, work for them to have better conditions. I have said that our tax plan, which is one building block of many, gives priority to those with low labour incomes. I am happy to stand by that, and I am happy to do so, but it must be seen in the context of the other building blocks as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906131421	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906131426	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. After all, this is what we call a catalogue of ideas. There are some really positive things in it, and then there are some less positive things and some directly negative things. When we read them, there are some of them that we consider to be shell tasks, and some that we might consider more like can tasks. There I have such three things that I would like to ask the rapporteur: if you take housing tax and the PRS, in other words the future energy policy, then we really see them as "must" tasks, something that needs to be resolved politically. However, we see the tax reform as a "can" task, i.e. it is not as important as solving the challenges of housing taxation and Denmark's energy policy in the years to come. Does the rapporteur agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906131508	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906131511	In any case, I agree with Mr. René Christensen in that the residential area, that is, the property assessment system, we need to get it under control. I also agree with Mr. René Christensen in saying that the European Union has told us that the system that we have today as a PSO cannot go on. So I fully agree with Mr. René Christensen in. Where the waters may be separated, I do not know if it is possible to say that this is, of course, a priority. As I said, I see these building blocks, including the two mentioned here, as a coherent whole, which can enable us to invest, for example, in the energy sector, for example, in some of the other areas that we all want. But it requires that we have some more blocks and put them together and get that coherence in things. But I agree with Mr. René Christensen in that the two bricks he mentions here must of course be taken care of.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906131557	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906131600	A quite different area is the principle of profit. After all, this has now been introduced in some areas where there must be a principle of profit, among other things. cash benefits. For example, in the case of social benefits, we have a rule today that says that if you stay legally in Denmark without being a Danish citizen you can be an EU citizen or any other citizen you can, among other things. Go up to your municipality, if you have a dental bill of less than DKK 10,000, DKK 9,999, and then you can put it down and get it paid if you pay 600 kroner yourself. Is the Left ready to go in and see if there should also be an income principle in relation to these things, i.e. how long have you been in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906131637	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906131640	Basically, I am of the opinion that it is important that you, one might say, contribute to Danish society before you can start to enjoy the various services that exist. Of course, we must respect international obligations and what it is all called, but I do share Mr. René Christensen's view that it is important that people also contribute. That is why we insist that those who come here should also make a positive contribution, not least in the labour market. So let's discuss the proposal that Mr. René Christensen here is laying on the table. We'll take that with us when we talk about it in the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906131713	The next brief remark is from Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906131719	Thank you. Back in 2008, Mr. Bertel Haarder, in charge of raising the disability allowance for students with disabilities, and the Left Party has also been in charge of raising the supplement to single parents in the past. On the whole, there have actually been good bars from the Left when it came to ensuring a proper and solid basis of living for students. But the SU proposal that has now been put forward affects everyone. It's 800 kroner. a month for students with disabilities who cannot work for single parents who do not already see much of their children. It is ordinary students and students who cannot call home Mom and Dad and get some help when there is no food at the end of the month, or when there is no money for the dentist bill, or when books are to be bought for thousands of kroner. What I would like to hear from the rapporteur is this: when the Prime Minister stood and promised before the elections that the SU would not be tampered with, and now that we see this flagrant breach of promise, the rapporteur really believes that Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, the current prime minister, would have become prime minister if he had said things the way they were?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906131843	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906131848	That's a hard question to guess. But I just want to correct one thing: the disability allowance for students is not affected by this. The total amount of available resources is actually increasing, and what everything else must determine is whether, as a student, you have the opportunity to pay your bills and your rent and what it is all called. Then it is true that we are adjusting, in relation to how much of the amount available is grants and how much of that is loan possibility. But the amount available will not be reduced; on the contrary, it will increase. In addition, and this must be what students have to focus on, we focus precisely on the quality of their degree programmes. After all, this proposal brings us up to 8 billion. kr. into the education system to increase the quality of education, we provide an increased opportunity to make money alongside the studies, i.e. an increased free amount, and then we give an extra tax carrot of DKK 17,000. In deduction, the first years you get to work. What must be the reason why you start a study is to get into the labour market and earn some money both for yourself and also for contributing to the community. These are the elements of our SU system. Actually, I think it's brilliant.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906131950	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906131957	What I heard the rapporteur say in the first place is that it is difficult to know what would have happened in the elections if the Prime Minister had told the truth. It's a flagrant breach of promise. It was promised repeatedly, and it came from the Prime Minister's own mouth, that the SU would not be tampered with, and the government is on the utmost mandate. But it is true that this could not be predicted, but I do not think he would have sat here as Prime Minister. Having said that: yes, the amount of availability is the same if you can work if you want to borrow, but that is not what ensures that students get through their education. The SU ensures that you get through it, even if you do not have much money in the bank account and even if the loan options are not used.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906132039	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906132045	To me, it must be a question of what you have to pay your bills in the relatively short period of your life where you are a student. We'll increase that. At the time there was a red government and, with the Social Democrats in the lead, an SU reform was carried out, and it was decided to cut 2.2 billion. kr. of the amount and hence the amount available. We don't. We go in and adjust to get a smaller grant, but increased loan opportunities and, overall, increased room for manoeuvre, and that must surely be what determines whether people in the short period of their ability to be a student can complete their studies, in addition to the things that we are proposing with an increased free amount, increased tax rebates when you come out, and most importantly an increased quality of education.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906132128	Thank you. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906132131	There are two kinds of breach of the promise: the right vows and those that political opponents just accuse you of. What the Left has said in the election campaign prior to the last elections does not constitute a breach of promise if you change it after another election, and this SU is something that you want to implement after another election. But this is a real breach of promise: the Left went to the polls that during this parliamentary term the public sector in Denmark, which is already one of the world's most expensive, should not be even more expensive. Instead, the money was to be set aside to lower the tax at the bottom. Now the government has put forward a plan that up to 2025 will spend as much as 22 billion. kr. more in 2025 than today in the public sector, and then the tax will only be reduced at the bottom with a very small job allowance of 4.5 billion. kr. So 22 billion. kr. to a larger public sector, 4.5 billion. kr. for job deductions. How does this relate to what the Left promised in the election campaign?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906132238	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906132241	This sort of thing is quite well linked, because what we said in the election campaign was that we have a stop to spending as a means, but not as an objective. And you can see from these plans that we are putting forward that, by getting more people into employment and, in general, increasing the scope for re-prioritisation in various areas, we will have more room for manoeuvre. And that allows us to invest extraordinaryly in, among other things. to finance tax cuts, which are not just 4.5 billion. kr., but which total is 11.5 billion. kr. in the plan we're putting forward. It also gives, as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen so correctly referred, the possibility that we increase the public budget by 1⁄2%. average in the coming years. But we can only do that if we increase the room for manoeuvre and if we can get a majority to increase the room for manoeuvre. We have not had a stop to spending as an objective, but as a means, and that makes a difference after all.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906132324	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906132328	After all, the goal was to ease the tax burden on people in work in the low part of the income scale. It was said that there were some priorities and that the Left placed more emphasis on reducing taxes on labour than on making the public sector bigger. Today we can see that it is quite the opposite. Left wants to spend 22 billion. kr. extra in the public sector and only 4.5 billion. kr. on a job deduction. - Sir, you can. Jacob Jensen didn't explain away. That is quite a different policy today than the one put forward in the election campaign.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906132402	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906132405	I don't think you can say that. In other words, we have said that we would like to have a public sector that was well-functioning. We were starting from the fact that it should be in the size we knew, but we have then seen that if we put forward a plan with which we gave a room for manoeuvre that was greater, it gave us the opportunity to • but also only for that reason that we found the money for modest, increased public spending. At the same time, we say that we are going in the same direction as before the elections, namely that it is with the focus that the tax on the first earned crown should be reduced, but among other things. For another group, too, as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen knows I put a lot of emphasis on than the one with the first earned crown. That is what we have put forward, and I can stand up for it entirely.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906132441	Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906132445	Thank you. And I would like to thank the rapporteur and, in fact, also praise the government for presenting a 2025 plan. I think that is commendable. What I will then concentrate on is that the government calls it an overall plan. And what then puzzles me in that overall plan is in relation to climate, environment and inequality. So, climate and environment are completely absent and, in my view, the plan promotes inequality. So how does the rapporteur see that this 2025 plan meets the UN's sustainability targets, and how do we implement the Paris agreement in the 2025 plan?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906132520	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906132524	Well, we have, of course, continued the most ambitious climate policy in the world with a desire and a goal of being a fossil-free society by 2050. The fact that we are now going in and abolishing the PSO scheme is, in fact, helping to ensure that there is funding for the green conversion. And the second arrangement of PSO was such, one might say, taken out of the drawer. Here we get it into the Finance Act and say that this ensures funds, as long as there is a majority for it in the Folketing, of course. So I think that actually helps to secure and strengthen the green transition. But I just want to emphasise that we still have that ambition. We have then said some things about how we want to prioritise how we get there a little differently. We are not so fond of coastal wind turbines, for example, but in return we would like to talk about expanding offshore wind farms to give just one example. But we have not relaxed our ambition, and we are still away one of the countries in the world that has the greatest and most ambitious objective in this field.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906132622	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906132625	It may come as no surprise that I think we are going the wrong way, because I think we are actually relaxing our ambitions in climate and environmental matters. However, let me address the inequality in the plan, also in relation to the UN's sustainability objective that we must combat inequality, both internationally and also nationally. That is also what lies in the UN sustainability objectives. So how, for example, can we do this? Do we have a reform of the SU which means that young people do not carry out the training because they have to borrow? It's just one example of the inequality.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906132710	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906132713	No, I do not see that it should increase any inequality, that we are actually strengthening education and that we are actually giving a tax rebate, you might say, an incentive to enter the labour market and that, moreover, we are giving a better opportunity to have an increased room for manoeuvre when you are a student. But let me give you another example, just to illustrate it when we talk about inequality. So, the fact that there are hundreds of thousands of Danes today who save nothing for themselves other than the basic pension is an inequality if we do not get something done about it. We have addressed this in our plan, so we are just going in and ensuring that some of the pensioners and other groups who are not saving up today will do so, so that they will be less dependent on the politicians of the future, you might say. So this is just another example of how we also address the inequality in this society.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906132754	Sir. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906132759	Perhaps, following on from the last discussion here, allow me to say that, if you do not see that the government is cutting in the field of education, when it continues a re-priority contribution that will cost just next year education 0.9 billion. kr., and when we are in a situation where 1 in 10 high school teachers are dismissed because of government savings, it seems that the cloud flaps are also on. However, my question was actually quite simple, because there was a liberating clear message that was today's news, I think from the Danish People's Party in relation to the tax freeze on housing, and I quote: The time has clearly run from the tax freeze on housing, because it doesn't work. Because the reason is galloping out there, and no homeowners have gotten security out of that tax freeze. Now we have the chance to make a much better and fairer and fair payment. Does the Left agree with the Danish People's Party on that remark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906132849	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906132853	At any rate, I agree with you and I can almost sense that it is Mr. Martin Lidegaard's view that the tax freeze has not provided the security that we might say had been expected to give. I actually agree with that, and it may well be that that is the second big news today, I do not know. But that is precisely why we are now using this opportunity to say that we have had a property assessment system that has not worked for various reasons, and that has not been fair. We have seen examples of quite different estimates and of people having paid almost arbitrary housing taxes. We now have with this plan, if we notice some decisions, an opportunity to set a very, very large billions of exactly 24 billion. kr. We suggest that it is possible to make a fairer and fairer model, and then, when we get further into the autumn and see what the overall model looks like, we have to come back and see how we can get the ends to meet, in relation to what should be political elements in it. But we need to see the model first. But I share the ambition to do something about this area. That is not good enough in the way it works at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906132947	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906132952	After all, no one can foresee the outcome of the negotiations, and it is quite fair that the rapporteur of the Left cannot do so either, but now I am asking about the position of the Left, and it would actually be nice just to get the clear and simple statement from the Left that time has run from the tax freeze on housing. In fact, it has been removed in the 2025 plan, but it is not the case that we have been able to lure neither the Prime Minister nor the Finance Minister into saying in a public space that we are now dropping the tax freeze that has actually brought nothing good with them, and then we are creating a more simple system which will create both greater security and greater room for manoeuvre in the economy. So that is actually just the small sentence I would like to hear the rapporteur of the Left say so that we could move on.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906133028	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906133030	At any rate, I can say so much that we have no plans or any interest in demanding more money in housing taxes. I think it's about 42 billion. kr. or something of the order of magnitude that is being demanded today. But we have an interest in that and I hear that I share with Mr. Martin Lidegaard to create a better system, a safer and fairer system than today. But I can then ask the opposite and I know that Mr. Martin Lidegaard is now unable to answer, but even so, whether it means that the Radicals will demand that the housing tax stop be abolished if there is a government led by the Social Democrats. I can see that, sir. Martin Lidegaard nods. I'll sign for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906133102	Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906133106	Thank you. There are a great many figures in this whole discussion about education and savings, and that is why I have only rhetorical questions to the rapporteur, because then it is easier to answer yes, no, yes, no. Is it true that last year's government set out to save 8.7 billion? kr., and that we are therefore not unaccustomed to discussing training savings? Is it true that out of the many billions that will be cut in the coming years, a billion will be returned to a so-called pool of competences to be spread out? Is it also correct to understand that the person with a disability who is a student who is still receiving his disability allowance will be cut in his SU because there can be all kinds of good reasons why he cannot work?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906133155	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906133158	That was a lot of questions. At least I can try to answer some of them. In relation to the SU part, which is being asked here at the end, the disability allowance, as I said to Mrs Pernille Skipper before, is not affected. On the contrary, we ensure that both students who are disabled and other students are given the opportunity to have more room for manoeuvre. Yes, it is true that we then adjust the scholarship part. I believe that today's name is 66 per cent. scholarship and 33%. loans, i.e. loan option. We will then adjust that so that it is called about 50· 50 per cent, but at the same time, and that is what I think in this question is the important and the brilliant thing, if you can use that expression, we will then use precisely the means to upgrade the quality of the training. And it must surely be in the interests of students that they have the money to be able to carry out their studies, that quality improves and that they will even have the opportunity to have a tax rebate when they enter the labour market in the first few years after that. The three elements plus an increased amount of free money when you make money next to being a student, I actually think that in itself is very well connected.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906133301	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906133304	Sorry, with all due respect: I asked some very specific questions so that I would not have the same nonsense for a gossip that the rapporteur gave to Mrs Pernille Skipper, some very specific questions: yes, no. The rapporteur must recognise that when you cut the scholarship to someone who has a disability and who is a student who is still getting his allowance away, but where there can be all sorts of good reasons why he cannot work next door, the disabled person will be hit very hard by government policy. The rapporteur cannot then say that education will be improved once a lot of billions are removed with one hand and then, with the other hand, one billion will be returned to a so-called pool of competences. That doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906133343	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906133347	I don't know what to say. I have, of course, repeated what I have said about what our plan is about. It is, of course, that the disability allowance will not be affected and that the disabled student will also have the opportunity to have a higher amount of money available with that plan this morning than he had yesterday, and that we will also have the opportunity to have a tax rebate when we enter the labour market. Because I assume that if you are a student, that is the purpose of taking an education in some context. There may be different options if you are disabled or otherwise, I agree. We have other options for that too. But the fact that you get a tax rebate, I think in itself is really, really positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906133423	Sir. Nicolai Wammen, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906133428	Sir. Jacob Jensen said the government's plan is brilliant. In politics, the only praise one can be sure of is self-esteem, and one must at least say that the government could have an Olympic gold medal in that discipline. I cannot help asking the rapporteur whether he also thinks that in the Danish country, that is outside these thick walls, it is a brilliant plan; whether he is of the opinion that a cashier who will get approx. 220 kr. in tax relief per month, it seems brilliant compared to the director, who earns about 1 million. kr., will receive a tax relief of approx. 2,000 kroner. I believe that a great many people will say that it is neither brilliant nor fair. That is why I would also like to ask the rapporteur of the Left to explain why it is so uneven a distribution that is in the tax cuts that are being proposed. Why does the director need almost ten times more than the cashier?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906133536	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906133538	At least we have a plan that the Danes can relate to. I guess that's something more than you can say about the Social Democrats. You have three words, haven't you? More dignified, more just, and what was the third? Something about richer? I think it was. That was their plan. Here, after all, we have put forward a plan that the Danes can relate to, and I think the Danes actually like: that politicians have been elected in here, who think a little further forward than just next year, but also for the next generation, and in general dare to put forward a policy. But let me just say in relation to this that it should be particularly wrong in the tax plan that has been put forward as one of the elements of our overall 2025 plan that the emphasis on the tax cuts that we put forward is on the low income groups; it is on the low income groups. Yes, we would also like to do something for the higher income groups, which is why we have also talked about and put forward proposals to reduce the top tax on income up to 1 million. kr. But the emphasis is on the 11.5 billion. kr., we add up to be relieved in the tax on labour income, is on the low incomes. And it is quite conscious that it is precisely to be better able to pay off working and to come from passive support and into the active labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906133642	Sir. Nicolai Wammen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906133644	I believe that the Danes are interested in ensuring that we take good care of the Danish welfare community by investing in our hospitals, in care for the elderly, and that we also take care to educate people and create private jobs. But then I also think that the Danes look very carefully at what the government has actually put forward and which they themselves call brilliant. I would therefore just like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that, when all the talk is put aside and the confetti is left on the floor after the presentation of the government's plan, what is being proposed is that the director, who earns 1 million. kr., gets a tax relief of approx. 2,000 kroner. a month, while the cashier only gets one of approx. 220 kr. Would the rapporteur not just confirm the fact that this is the case?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906133729	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906133732	It was not many years ago that the rapporteur, the questioner here, was himself in government. I guess it was just about a year ago. And when you did a tax reform yourself, who was it that got the greatest relief there? Who was that? That was the director, I think somewhere down here was shouted. That was the director. Let me just ask the opposite: if there is another Social Democrat who can at some point answer 'Because I have already explained what our policy is about, namely the focus on low income: how much tax relief do the Socialists think the cashier deserves? We have not yet been told this because the Socialists have no plan, no plan at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906133810	Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906133816	Thank you. I was actually going to ask you something else, but I'm going to follow up where Mr. Nicolai Wammen ended. The rapporteur did not answer the question. The rapporteur mentioned that the emphasis on tax relief is being placed at the bottom. But would the rapporteur not just confirm that the picture is that for the craftsman, who has an annual salary of DKK 350,000, a monthly tax relief of just under DKK 199 is granted, while the director gets a tax relief of DKK 2 000. If you then add that the craftsman, who uses his body every day and has a hard and hard work, will have to pay the tax relief he gets of 199 DKK. a month, with him working six months more with his already worn body and having to postpone his person. Will the rapporteur not just confirm that picture?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906133903	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906133906	It must be a picture, sir. Hummelgaard himself has drawn for his inner eye, for it is not an image I can confirm or recognize, at least not in the plan that lies here. I don't know if it's in the plan that the Socialists... well no, they don't have a plan. Well, I'll just repeat quite quietly and factually from what our plan is, every time we take off with 4 kr, we take off with 3 kr. at the bottom • 3 kr. A total tax relief of 11.5 billion will be provided. kr., if I'm not mistaken. I think it's 1.6 billion. kr. at the top and the rest are in different ways with job deductions etc. at the bottom of the labour income scale. Of course, you might think that's wrong. I think it's pretty well screwed up.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906133944	Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906133947	Yes, but at the same time Mr. Jacob Jensen to tell you that a large number of other things are being done, such as removing the green cheque, less-regulating transfer income, creating a ceiling on cash benefits, ensuring that the weakest elderly are cut into housing benefits, and that those who have worked longest in the labour market have to work even longer. That's what makes the whole thing in this plan, which one dares to call a holistic plan, but which is really a deeply crooked plan, very, very unfair. Therefore, I just want to confirm that the calculations show that the available amount is 199 kr. for the craftsman and for the Director 2,000 DKK. a month. Is Mr. Jacob Jensen did not agree with the calculations made by the LO?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906134026	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906134029	The fact that we're less regulating the transfer income, where you're producing prices, but you're not producing wages, isn't our invention. This was something that the then SRSF government introduced and implemented for a period of 7 years. We will then allow ourselves to continue for two more years. When S sat in government, the 7 years were quite fine, in order to afford tax relief to the director, tax reliefs, and what do I know? Good things, but that's what you did. Now we allow ourselves to put forward the view to continue the mechanism that S, R and SF introduced for another 2 years, and then the world suddenly collapses. I think it's a logic that's limping something.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906134108	Sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906134112	We may disagree on many things and very politically, and there are major political differences between the Enhedslisten and the Left, but I think that being honest with the electorate should be something that brought us together in here. After all, it is not a question of whether there has been a breach of the promise when it comes to the retirement age of the Danes. It is promised before the elections that you did not plan to mess with the Danes' retirement age, and then you come as a thief at night and say: Hey, anyway. That is why I would actually like to ask the same question that Mrs Pernille Skipper asked about the SU: does the rapporteur think that the Prime Minister would have been Prime Minister today if the Danes had been told honestly what it was that they would be doing when they had got the ministerial taboos?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906134211	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906134212	Without too much Christiansborg technology going into this, I would say that we normally say that if we get there and give the people the opportunity to be asked before the things we want to change are implemented, then the people have the opportunity to reunite the Folketing, and that is what we are doing, so it is not right when Mr. Pelle Dragsted says we come as a thief at night. On the contrary, we are coming, for example. in the area of pensions with a phase-in, where it is not until 2025 that the change takes place, i.e. in 8-9 years. There has been one and probably two parliamentary elections, and there may have been more. And in relation to the SU, after a parliamentary elections in 2019, it is similar that those changes could enter into force if, after a new parliamentary election, there is still a majority behind any changes we may make. So it doesn't stick to the city court here at Christiansborg, if we had one of these, to say that this is a breach of promise when we do it in the way that the people can be asked both once and several times before the changes come into force.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906134313	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906134315	But what is and remains a piece of talk because the Prime Minister was asked explicitly and even chose to speak about the SU himself and to tell him that he did not think it should be tampered with before the elections. We therefore have a government which was elected under a narrow, narrow mandate. In fact, we have a government which is perhaps the weakest government in terms of mandate, as we have had for many years. I cannot help but sit back with that feeling, especially when I think that the government is led by a party which is, of course, busy attacking the previous government, often with good reason, for breaking promises and which has itself won power on one promise after another.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906134354	Thank you, sir. Pelle Dragsted. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906134356	But the difference is, sir. Pelle Dragsted's party supported a government that actually came as a thief at night and changed things during the period when the people were not given the opportunity to reunite the Folketing, if you wish. Yeah, yeah, that's what happened. Sir. Pelle Dragsted's party supported a Thorning-Schmidt government, which came as a thief at night and changed things one had said that one would have done the opposite before the election. We then come and say: yes, we want to develop our welfare society; we want to create an increased room for manoeuvre so that we can invest in our education, our elderly, our health. We would like to do so, but in a way that would allow the phasing-in to be such that the people can reunite the Folketing if they disagree. Well, there's a difference, I'd say to Mr. Knox. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906134439	Thank you. Sir. Erik Christensen, the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906134446	Thank you. It's almost gonna be tragic. I will try to follow up some of the questions put to the rapporteur in the past. I can only read that the rapporteur does not want the Danes to know what these tax cuts are actually going to mean. That is why I ask once again: can the rapporteur confirm that the increase in the amount available, which an average cashier will receive after the 2025 plan, will be DKK 221. a month? Will the rapporteur confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906134521	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906134524	It depends, by its very nature, on what kind of economy it is, what kind of wages and everything else you have. So, by its very nature, I cannot confirm that. But I can confirm, and I would like to repeat that from here to Christmas Eve I hope that we have landed an agreement, but I can also repeat that for every 4 kroner. I'm gonna give you 3 kroner. (ii) to reduce the tax burden on small incomes. It is in different ways, through job deductions etc. That is the fact. You can then sit and hit the table and everything else, but then you can come up with a plan yourself. Where is the Social Democrats' plan? You sit and criticize us for wanting to give tax cuts to hard-working Danes who get up every single morning, lubricate their lunches, go to work and do their duty. We would like to give them a tax credit. I have not yet heard what tax relief the Socialists have imagined, but that is enough because there is no plan. That is, of course, very regrettable, but nevertheless true.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906134615	Sir. Erik Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906134619	Dear sir. Jacob Jensen, I have not criticized anything. I have asked for a concrete answer to a specific question. Now I ask again: the government has made a lot of calculation models, and so I would like to ask whether the rapporteur can confirm that with your model it will mean that an average cashier will get DKK 221. more a month. Can the rapporteur confirm this or not? I have not criticized anything; I have just asked a question and I expect an answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906134651	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906134654	Copy that. It was just more general for the Socialists, but it has been received and I would like to sign that it was a question. But I must then reply as I have always done, namely that we are focusing on the low level of labour income. But I can almost hear that 220 kroner. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is not enough for the Social Democratic Party that it is too small a tax relief. So I just ask the opposite, and it may be that there are others that can enrich me later: how much tax relief do the Socialists think that hard-working employees, including cashiers and others, should have? We don't know anything about that. We are discussing up against the Left's plan, but what is the plan of the Socialists in the area of taxation? Should I understand that it is too little for us to lighten the tax on low income income for the labour force? It must almost be when this series of questions is very much focused on it. I am pleased about that and we would like to continue working on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906134742	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906134754	Even though we sit close in here, it is difficult to reach agreement and get the feeling that we actually have transparency and trust in each other, which must also extend beyond the walls of Castle. That's actually what could kick-start my question. The whole package here, I would like to acknowledge, is a whole, because there are mistakes and shortcomings in a whole package. I can disagree with something. There is also something that is good, but the basis for believing that this will be good and the direction is set is precisely the honesty that Mr. Pelle Dragsted talked about before, the openness of what you really want. And there I think that in what has been proposed for example in the field of taxation, namely the kick-start, the reboot, the whole restoration of the SKAT, there is simply a lack of people and the rest of us being given us who have now entered as a new party in here and maybe have not been involved in all the negotiations yet; the possibility of believing that what we are about to set in motion will be good, that we have learned from our mistakes. I have to say that what has been proposed in the field of taxation up to now will not take political responsibility. And it's not just about the government, it's quite general, I'm calling for before we start this new big plan, we're gonna have to take a political responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906134857	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906134900	In fact, I very much share that view. René Gade in, and therefore I am very pleased that it is exactly addressed, one can say whether it is by 2025 plan or finance law, it is invariably linked and that funds are specifically set aside in the Finance Act. Now there are many figures, but I think it is 6.7 billion. kr. or something in the style that will be set aside in the years to come for the tax administration in addition to tax relief, that is a different story, because there is precisely a need to restore the confidence that must be in a country which, even after our tax relief package, if it gets through, still pays off one of the world's highest taxes. This is the model we have screwed up in Denmark, and I think we should stand guard over it, but it then requires that there is that confidence in the tax administration, and there is not today. Hopefully this will bring about additional efforts, which we hope will be possible in the years to come, so that they will also come into play again and it will be fair and proper what is going on in the area of taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906134950	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906134951	At the moment, however, we do not want to take political responsibility. You've fired officials, and that's it. And then we must set a new plan in motion, given that we do not want to place a political responsibility. I'm not out in a witch hunt here. It might as well be the alternative that was in a situation where we had been involved in something that had gone wrong. But I can only say that right now, perhaps at the end of this month, we are faced with a new EFI scandal if we are not lucky. There are some systems which are being delivered and which are very, very late. Why is this happening? What's at stake? None of our parties are clearly responsible for this, but we need to learn from it. And I find that you do not want to take political responsibility and put it on SKAT. We need it in order to learn from it in other areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906135031	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906135034	In other words, placing political responsibility or responsibility at all is always a matter of taste. I think that at least at the beginning of the day the tax minister tried to place a responsibility. At least there was a director in SKAT who, for example, is no longer the director. In addition, we must then try to make a suggestion as to how we can restore confidence in the SKAT. I hope, sir. René Gade has an even better offer, and then we will have to talk about it, including, of course, the funding needed if it is money that is required. We would very much like to talk about this with the alternative and, moreover, with other parties, because that is where I think we, like Mr Tugendhat, are going. René Gade says he does not disagree with a political context, but we just need a real tool on the field. So we'd like to talk about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906135111	Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen, the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906135118	Thank you. After all, it's an honest matter to disagree, and if mr. Jacob Jensen thinks that it makes Denmark a better country, that the director gets a tax relief of ten times as much as the average LO employee, then it is an honest matter. The only thing I and we are trying to get the rapporteur to say today is that this is the case. Mr. Jacob Jensen, that it is a very good policy that it is brilliant that it is fairly well screwed up, as the rapporteur has spent on these plans, that the director gets ten times as much money as the LO employee?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906135155	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906135157	In other words, if this is what Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen is suggesting, then we might well be accused of learning lessons from the tax reform of the previous government, because it was precisely in relation to the distribution of income that it was the director who was given the greatest relief and tax relief and other things in that way. What I have said a few times and would like to say again is that every time we take off the tax, we take off with 3 kroner. at the bottom and 1 DKK. elsewhere. Of course you can think that is wrong and not; I do not know whether the question should then be understood in such a way that what we take off with, for example, on the first earned crown, is too little. Of course, we still have the benefit of knowing that, because, as you know, the Socialists do not have a plan for it at all. You just want to distribute the existing room for manoeuvre. We are interested in creating a greater dynamism in our society, which means that the room for manoeuvre will increase, so that we can also invest in our welfare societies, not just next year, but next generation. I do not know whether that is what is involved in the question, that then it seems to us that what we take off with at the bottom is too little, but if so, then we would welcome a discussion on it in the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906135256	Mrs. Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906135259	Now I know Left Language. When you say dynamics, it usually means greater inequality, and that's exactly what this plan is going to lead to. I can say very clearly that my position is that I think it is frivolous that the director gets DKK 2 000. a month, while the home production school student loses DKK 3,000. It is frivolous, and I do not believe it, it makes neither Denmark richer nor wiser nor fairer. I believe that this means that there are fewer young people coming into education and work and that the director will just get more of what he already has the most.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906135335	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906135338	When someone is favoured by a tax relief because of entering the labour market, there is a greater increase in wages than if you were not in the labour market. That's right, of course. But that is also what Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen's own party and government carried out, i.e. transfer income regulation, where it was argued with price regulation rather than wage regulation. It was a mechanism that was introduced under a social democratic government which we then continue with. I guess it wasn't wrong. I think it is wrong not to give a profit to those who do a job. I would like to make a greater gain and also motivate those who are not in the labour market today to enter the labour market, and that is what our plan is for.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906135418	Thank you. That brings us to the last brief remark. It's from Mrs. Lotte Rod, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906135426	Left talks about next generation, but what you're doing is cutting education and nothing doing for climate. Over here with me, your policy means that, for example, Southern Denmark's Business School must save 83 million. kr., and that Rosborg Gymnasium should save 22 million. kr. Why has the Left chosen to cut education?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906135450	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906135453	Well, I don't recognize the picture that Mrs Lotte Rod is drawing from the fact that we had to cut education. On the contrary. What we are proposing with our plan for 2025 which, incidentally, I have signed for the reception of the Radicals; I would like to repeat here, it seems to me to have been very constructive, is that we are just trying to create an increased room for manoeuvre, among other things. in relation to the adjustments in the SU area that we have discussed a few times, which allows us to channel and extra invest 8 billion. kr. In the field of education, improve the quality of education and training. That is what is proposed with the plan, and I hope that the Radicals will also be on board and discuss it further.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906135525	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906135528	I have of course deducted what the Left gave back the schools both in 2016 and intend to give them back in 2017. What remains, if we take Southern Denmark's Business School, is black and white, that they have to save 83 million. kr. Why did the Left choose that? Why do you choose to cut education?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906135548	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906135551	Now, it is perhaps so much to give us responsibility for both what are local priorities, and also what a majority in the Danish Parliament outside the Left might think. Because there may be a majority in the Folketing who means something other than we do. We're a modest little government that does our best every day. On the other hand, with few exceptions, we are the only party to have put forward an overall plan which can also strengthen training. And that is what we are doing for the simple reason that we are not just going to say, as the Socialists, that we are just distributing the existing room for manoeuvre. No, we want to create more room for manoeuvre, so that we cannot just say to the next generation: we withdrew. No, we will say to the next generation: We added so that your opportunities to train you are better than those that we had in our generation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906135633	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left, and so we go to Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906135645	When the Prime Minister presented this so-called overall plan, he spoke very long about the fact that it was about future generations to ensure them better conditions and future-proof society for the sake of our children. But when I read the contents of the plan, I can't make it stick together. I have two children myself, a boy of 11 and a girl of 14, and I just can't see how this plan will make life better for them and for all the other children who grow up these years. Because what does the plan really mean for them? Yes, they must grow up in a society where they have to pay for education. We know what the consequence is, because we see it in other countries. Fewer people are going through higher education and it is going to hit awkwardly. Young people from homes, where there are not so many books in the bookshelf or so much money in the account, are hit harder than those coming from more wealthy homes. What are the better conditions for our children? That's the opposite. They must grow up in a more unequal society where the Denmark, which I think very many of us love, where it is not so far from the top to the bottom, is being transformed into a society where we have poor people. In the midst of wealth, we have people living in poverty. They have to grow up in a society where the penalty for becoming unemployed, that is to say to get a bill, innocent, is harder because you have to live on less while looking for a new job. And if you are so unlucky that you are affected by an accident at work or chronic illness, then you are permanently hooked up with the development of prosperity in society. They must be prepared to work many more years before they can retire, whether they start early, whether they are many years in grueling jobs. Then they must also grow up in a welfare society that is increasingly hollow. I heard this morning on the radio how we are already in a situation where nurses go home from work with stomach pain, because they may have just been able to cope with the most necessary. But they could not hold the dying patient's hand or have a proper conversation with the relatives. And that's only the beginning if this plan is implemented. How can you call this a security for the future? How can you say this creates a better life for our children? I don't understand. And what's strange is that we're richer today than we were when I was young. Why, then, must our children grow up with fewer rights, with a poorer welfare society, with poorer SU, with less security when you are hit by unemployment, even if society has become richer in the meantime? That doesn't make any sense. Well, the Prime Minister says it's because we need to get the growth in society going. That is why we need new reforms and more tax rebates for the richest in society. But let's try to think about that argument, because it's really pure confession. Now, for more than a decade, the Danes have put their backs on an infinite series of reforms: pension reform, early retirement reform, unemployment benefit reform, sickness benefit reform, progress reform, cash relief reform 1, 2 and 3, corporate tax relief, marginal tax relief, and this is all the way I could go on from the promise that the reforms would make growth and prosperity grow in society for the benefit of all of us. Now the Prime Minister comes and tells us that we have a growth crisis; that today's growth is lower than before the politicians in here went through reform. It is then a confession case, a direct recognition that their policy, that the whole series of reforms has not delivered on what they promised; that all the sacrifices made by the Danes did not create growth, but just made our society more unequal and more insecure for ordinary people. There should be a majority in this Chamber with red ears. But instead they do come in and ask for more of the same, for more tax relief for the wealthiest Danes, for more reforms to motivate Danes to work more. I cannot help but ask myself: How stupid do they really think the Danes are? But then let's try to play with the idea that this plan actually creates growth... that several of the same reforms that have not worked so far create growth. Is it worth the price? Will we accept a more unequal education system? Will we accept that people in Denmark should live in poverty? Will we accept that old-age pensioners and early-retirement pensioners should be made poorer and that sick people should be abused in our cash assistance system in order to have a little more growth? It's as if this whole debate on growth has been turned upside down over the last few decades. There was a time when the purpose of growth was for us to have more rights. For every generation, ordinary people got better rights, better opportunities. But now the right and their economists want us to give up rights and opportunities for growth. And that is a growth which must be distributed more and more unequally at the same time. But what will it do if parts of society become economically richer if it is a worse and safer society that we have to live in if it is socially and humanly poorer. That brings me to the perhaps most serious problem of this plan, namely that it fails on the most important challenge at all, which is the climate and environmental challenge. How can you talk about a plan for the future, how can you talk about ensuring the future of society, how can you talk about not sending a bill to the children's room while you loop wind turbines while destroying the financing model that has been central to Denmark being the leading green economy in the world? How can one even talk about growth, without considering whether the growth one creates will lead to even more emissions of CO2 Again, I would ask: What do we need growth for, what do we need a little more wealth for, if we do not have an earth on which to live? That's not future assurance. It's a huge failure for the future. That's the whole thing for this plan, that it's exactly the opposite of future security. This plan will mean that my children will grow up in a society that is less secure for ordinary employees, in a society where there are fewer rights than today, in a society where our nature, our drinking water, our streams and fjords and forests, our wildlife and our plant life are in worse shape than today and where the climate disaster has moved closer. It's not a plan for the future. It's a past plan. It's not bringing us forward. It'll bring us back. And that's too bad, because there's such a need to think about the future in these years. There is also a need for us to develop our society and to make sure that we leave a better society for our children, that is, a society where everyone is involved and where it is not the money purse or the number of books in the bookcase that determines who gets what education; a society where we should not be afraid of being affected by unemployment or disease or of getting old, because we know that the community we have contributed to is there and has been able to seize one when we need it; a society in which our nurses, our social workers and our educators and all the other public servants can go home proudly and joyfully from work because they have been able to provide a service and have been able to use their professional skills together with the users; a society where everything is not just about growth and GDP and more and more and more consumption, but where everything else that gives our lives value to culture, nature, creativity, the strong communities between people, everything that we know about, which means more to us that we are going to have a lot of room for us in the world and where we are living; where we have a lot more room; and we have a lot more space in which we have a lot of life; we have a lot of life; we have to live in which we have to live in which we have a society, and a lot more time; we have to live without a society; we have to think about it; we have to live; we have a whole, and that we have a society, and that we have a society, and that we have a whole, and that we need; we need, and that we need; and that we need, and that we need, and that we have a lot; we have a lot; we have a society, and that we need, and that we have a society, and that we have a society; we have a lot of life, and that we need, and that we need, and that we have a lot, and that we have a lot of life; we need, and that we need, and that we need, and that we need, and that we need, and that we need, and that we need, and that we need, and that we need, and that we need, and that we need, and that we need, and that we need, and that we have a better society, and that we have a better; we have a better; we have a lot of There is a lot to be done, and we have the opportunities in Denmark. We are a rich country and we are an effective country. We are a well-educated country. We can do this if we want to. If we dare to think again instead of driving along the same road that we have gone on so far and that has not worked. In the Enhedslisten, we are one hundred percent prepared to help create such a plan for the future. But basically, it must bring us forward to a better life for our children... not back to anything that is inferior.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906140627	Thank you to the rapporteur. The first brief remark is to Mr Seligman. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906140634	When you listen to Mr. Pelle Dragsted, one gets the impression that we should endlessly pursue a more equal society, that is, a fairer distribution of total income in society. I would like to know whether it is the case that at some point before everyone has exactly the same income, whether they work very much or little or work skillfully or less skillfully, it will be the case that Enhedslisten will say: Ej, now we have enough equality, if we do it more right now, then it is damaging the motivation to make an extra effort. Or is the ultimate goal of Enhedslisten that there must be completely equal wages for all regardless of working hours and work performance?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906140729	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906140731	I do not think that absolute equality can be achieved or that it is appropriate. And in relation to the fact that it motivates people and all these things, I think that the Liberal Alliance totally overestimates those effects. But, of course, you have to be able to earn more by going more to work than by going less to work. Of course, if you train and spend a few years on it, you have to be able to earn more than if you hadn't. But what we in the Enhedslisten think is a problem is if the distribution of income is too large. And when, in recent years, and especially since the financial crisis, you can see how wages for ordinary employees have developed and have almost stagnated, while the directors of the companies in the C20 index just from, for example. 2013 to 2014 saw an increase in wage income of 32%, as far as I remember, so I ask: Why? You have to believe that the directors of that year were 32%. more productive than their employees in companies in the same year? No, there's no logic or justice in that. It is because some have managed to acquire a greater proportion of the values that are being created in our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906140844	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906140846	This is interesting, because Enhedslisten has so far sounded as if any difference that might be on people's income is an evil, no matter how large or small it is, and that it was always better with more equality. But now I understand that there are limits to how equal a society can be. The Enhedslisten simply does not believe that the limit has been reached in Denmark, which is probably the world's most equal country, a country in which 300,000 people have little economic motivation, a poor financial gain by going to work according to the figures that came from the S-R-SF government. Equality can become a problem, but it is not a problem in the world's most equal country, Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906140931	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906140933	I do not know whether equality can become a problem, and I do not subscribe to that understanding that there are 300,000 with little motivation to work. That's the economic thinking of the Liberal Alliance. Well, it's interesting enough that of the 300 grand, sir. Ole Birk Olesen talks about is by far the majority in work, over 95%. of them are at work. Why? Yes, because you cannot choose to be unemployed in Denmark. For if you are unemployed, you must be available for the labour market in order to receive a benefit and if you do not do so, you will be sent into a useful job. And what's a useful job? It's a job without pay, it's a job on cash benefits. That is the choice that is being made as unemployed in Denmark. Then I think we all know very well why we go to work. Of course, it's to make money. I have no objection to some making a little more money by going more to work, but it is also for a lot of other things because it gives us a community and a wealth that I mentioned, which is not just economic.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906141024	Sir. René Christensen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906141029	It is actually a follow-up to something that I had not imagined I should ask questions about. But I think it is quite interesting, because now I have heard about it from both the Social Democracy and the Enhedslisten, i.e. that the directors are at least on the evil team. If you have started up a company and you have created jobs in Denmark, you are at least on the evil team, and you have to be punished for that. Is this not the case if you now choose to become a manager and head of a company and you bet everything that is fair enough that you actually get a profit in the long term when you help create, for example, private jobs? Isn't that positive? And isn't it fair enough that there's a difference? When you're the director of a company that's been betting something for a long time, you've been helping to create something.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906141112	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906141114	I've never talked about anyone being mean at all. I just take the view that prosperity is something that is being created. You don't create that on your own. And I think I would just like to quote from a Danish translation of an American member of the Democrats who has said this: nobody gets rich only by their own power. You've created a company or a factory. Hey, good job! But let me make one thing clear: You drove your goods out on roads for which the rest of us have paid, you hired workers that the rest of us have paid to train, you could be safe in your factory because of the police and fire brigade that the rest of us paid for. So: You built a company and made it a success. Hey, really good! And of course you must be rewarded for what you have created, but the underlying social contract is that you also pay a good deal back to the community that gave you your opportunities, so there are also the same opportunities for the next one that gets a good idea. So this does not come from a red socialist, it comes from a member of the Democratic Party in the US Congress. I think it answers your question very well.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906141218	We don't address each other directly. Pelle Dragsted on the rapporteur's question. Sorry). Sir. René Christensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906141225	Thank you. Yes, it may be a bit on the edge of a financial bill debate, but it's just very interesting how different you actually look at it. At any rate, the matter with the Director has now been mentioned three times today, so very condescending. It's the director who gets it. Now it is said here that you cannot create it alone. I fully agree with that, so there is nothing better than the last indent, and the last indent is also the cowardly boy standing behind it, he is also part of the company. However, Enhedslisten does not recognise the Danish model by having an agreement and receiving the wage agreed on in the labour market etc. etc.? If you can then run a business well you have bet, you have even taken loans in your property and everything else, you bet it all, you can also lose everything and if there is a gain, you take that gain; you must of course behave properly, you have to pay contractual real wages. The Enhedslisten does not recognise that the system works in Denmark and that therefore you cannot stand in this Chamber up to several times and be condescending to the director.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906141320	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906141322	I would again deny a myth that I have been condescending to the director. I have heard some members of the Socialists who just found out how much the director gets in tax relief compared to a cashier. I think that is a perfectly fair question, given that we had a Prime Minister who presented this plan and said: I am not interested in the millionaires. If you can then prove figures for figures that it is the millionaires who get the biggest gain, then it is a relevant information for the citizens in order to be able to relate to this plan. I don't understand why it should be condescending. Do I believe in the Danish model? Yes, I do. But I also note that the distribution of income in the Danish model is growing, and I am concerned about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906141400	Sir. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906141402	I would like to ask Enhedslisten if the Enhedslisten is so per. definition is opposed to tax relief. For example, tax cuts could be made for the low - income group; they could be cashiers or others. Does the Enhedslisten mind tax relief being given to that income group?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906141417	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906141419	No, certainly not. I would also like to use this opportunity to again deny a myth. Now the low-income group is being said, and there has been talk of tax relief being given at the bottom, but this plan doesn't give it. In economic terms, the old-age pensionist is at the bottom of our society, who is the early-retirer, who is the recipient of cash benefits, and with this plan they are not just being cheated again for tax relief, no, they have to finance it. People's pensionists' taxes are being raised and I hope that people will follow out there very well, because that is the reality behind this plan because the so-called green bottom allowance is being abolished. We would like to contribute to tax reductions, but if you are going to do so, it must be the personal allowance, that is, the basic allowance, that has to be raised for everyone. Moreover, it would, but I do not think I have time to explain that, in the end, it would be an advantage for employees who go to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906141508	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906141511	I think that is a good thing, because then we have also got the Enhedslisten on to the team of parties that want tax relief. I think that's a good thing too. Then I would like to ask a few questions on this further question: does the President-in-Office of the Council not agree with me? Pelle Dragsted recognizes the context that is why we call it an overall plan that is. We discuss a lot of taxes and look in isolation at who gets what after a tax change or reduction, but acknowledges Mr. Pelle Dragsted is not that there is a link in our society, namely that the fact that someone is going in and making an effort on the labour market, that some people are paying taxes because they are going into work, is helping to finance the fact that the early retirement and the pensioner who is outside the labour market also have the opportunity to have a better welfare society, that we can invest so that they also have a better welfare society? Recognizes Mr. Pelle Dragsted not that connection?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906141553	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906141555	Do I recognise the link between people going to work and paying taxes and the financing of transfer income? Yes, of course, but just remember that those who are early retirement were employees yesterday and those who are unemployed today were employees yesterday. So sometimes you contribute, sometimes you enjoy. The next part of the question was whether I believe that these factors of economic motivation work. No, I don't believe that very much. Why don't I believe that? It is because I can see that it has not worked so far. How can one continue to run in a path of reform where one has not even taken the trouble to check whether the reforms that have been implemented actually work? We saw the cash benefits reform. There would be 2,000 to 4,000 a year, but at least ten times as many people fell out of the system because the forecasts did not fit. It didn't give any money in the Treasury.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906141640	Thank you. Sir. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906141645	Thank you. I kind of share Enhedslisten's frustration over the lack of foresight in the green area. On the other hand, if we agree that we would like to use this treatment of the 2025 plan to make a package for our children, so that we can pass on a Denmark that is even better than what we got, then I simply cannot understand the enormous outcome of Enhedslisten towards reform. If we now try to turn back time, Enhedslisten was also against the adjustment of the early retirement age we made and shouted out etc. Today, however, we would very much like to spend the money and the room for manoeuvre that exactly the pre-retirement reforms provided. It is part of the economic foundation on which we stand today, and in my book, if you can put it that way, the fencer is as bad as the stealer. So Enhedslisten is not coming to the realization that if we want to ensure the future of our children's education, in order to be able to make a green transition, in order to do everything that I think we agree on, then it also requires an economy. And it also requires that we ask the older generation to give a generational gift to the younger one.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906141749	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906141751	Of course, it requires an economy, but politics is about where that economy should come from. The Radicals want to find the economy by forcing worn-out employees to stay longer on the labour market. I don't want to. I would like to find that economy, for example. to say that income on capital we tax at the same level as income on labour, or by saying that when you sell a house with a huge profit, then tax on that additional income must be paid. Of course, you should not pay for what you have repaired or built, but the value that has just grown because the prosperity of society has grown, you pay taxes. I could make many other suggestions. This is political priority. Have those reforms worked, for example? the pre-retirement reform and the pension reform that is only getting under way? We'll see about that. Does this just mean that it will be harder for young people to enter the labour market? Does this just mean that many of these worn-out people end up with other benefits because they are unable to work until you are 73 years old when you are a scaffolding worker or a bricklayer worker? We don't know, sir. Martin Lidegaard. I finance every proposal I make, not with any room for manoeuvre, but with other revenue. When we have not been invited by the governing party to a financial bill debate, it is clear that we do not decide what kind of money we are debating. But I do not believe that those reforms have created the room for manoeuvre that Mr. Martin Lidegaard believes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906141912	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906141914	Well, this isn't supposed to be a matter of religion. The pre-retirement reform, which was made at the time, has already meant that considerably fewer people are going on early retirement. Of course, some still do, but the extra economy it creates is part of the room for manoeuvre that I assume Enhedslisten also uses when they have to make their financial bill projections, just like all of us do. We have such strange hateful results that we are going to whip worn workers to go to work, but on the contrary we have proposed a new system, namely that everyone who is worn out should be able to stop working five years before everyone else. But, on the other hand, how many years must lifespan be extended before Enhedslisten thinks it is reasonable that healthy and bodied people like us take a few months more on the labour market?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906141959	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906142001	Well, I think it's really good if people take some extra years on the job market. The interesting thing is, and we have seen that people have done so quite independently of these reforms, because people are getting healthier and because many are actually happy with their work. One might also ask: was it the case that many more had gone on early retirement if this reform had not been implemented? It's a little counter-productive. But I think it is good if people stay longer in the labour market. I can just see what the consequences of that reform are. And the consequence is that it hits so badly because we are some people like me who have taken a long education and started late on the labour market, which should not be so many years on the labour market. And then some started when they were 18 or 19 or 20 years old, and they're not gonna make it here. It's not solved. It is good if the Radicals want to solve it, because you are also responsible for the fact that it has happened.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906142049	Thank you. Mrs. Merete Riisager, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906142053	Thank you. Sir. Pelle Dragsted is concerned about the future of his children and whether they will owe themselves as they start reading. I can understand that. I am also often concerned about my children and their future, and what is going to happen to them, but in relation to the debt situation in the course of the studies, it is the case that what the government has put forward for each student will mean that you get 800 DKK. less a month. Now I have no reason to believe anything but that Mr. Pelle Dragsted's children are very bright young people who can also take a study job while they are reading, so I would like to jump to and reassure the rapporteur with the latest knowledge in this area. I am reading here briefly: Bachelor students at the universities in the country, who supplement the SU with income from a study job, are no more likely to be delayed with the studies or drop out compared to their fellow students who receive only SU. It was kind of just a soothing information for mr. Pelle Dragsted. It's the latest knowledge in the field.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906142202	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906142203	Thank you for trying to calm down. What I'm wondering about this SU proposal is why? In Denmark, we have a really well-functioning system which means that we actually have a much higher rate of implementation of long higher education than the countries with lower SU. We can see, for example, that in Norway, for example, it had consequences for the implementation of long-term higher education when the SU was cut. There were fewer people who completed the training they started, and therefore I simply do not understand why you want to go in and make such a run for it here, because if there is anything that matters for the future, it is then that people take an education, and then the other is just a question of general justice. Why is it that one of the groups in our society that has the least to live for, the students, must have less so that we can give tax rebates, among other things. For people who have more than they can use? Well, I just don't understand the sense of that, quite simply.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906142315	Mrs. Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906142317	Sir. Pelle Dragsted can see no reason why you should cut a little bit in the SU. Now we are some who think that when you take some of people's money, as you do when you collect taxes, you have to have a very good reason for it, and that we are now spending as much money on SU as we do on our entire higher education system, might be reason enough to see if we are spending enough money. It is the case that the total amount has increased quite a lot over the last ten years. And if sir... Pelle Dragsted should be worried about the children of unskilled parents, we will just jump to and provide an extra bonus information about them: At the same time, students with unskilled parents who choose a study job are less likely to be delayed than their fellow students with academic parents. It's just that if mr. Pelle Dragsted had that concern too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906142406	Thank you to Mrs Merete Riisager. Then it is the rapporteur to answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906142415	Once again, I'm glad you're calmed down. I don't mind that people, if they have the opportunity to do so, it's a little different from study to study, how the opportunities are • have a study job. That's just not an argument. And with regard to the fact that the cost of SU has increased, I would say: yes, it is for the joyful reason that many more people are taking an education. But is that an expense? No, it's an investment. It will be, as if one company said, that now we send our employees on continuing training, and saw it as an expense instead of seeing it as an investment. This is an investment. After all, it is money that will return home later, because we have more people who carry out education than other countries who do not have the SU system we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906142452	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906142459	The government has presented a 2025 plan, and that is good. The government is addressing issues which are important and which we in the Liberal Alliance also believe should be addressed. The four most important are, in our opinion, 1) that there are too many people in Denmark who do not work, even if they are of working age; 2) that there is too little reward for those who make an extra effort; 3) that there are too high occupational taxes in Denmark, which make companies a little too often prefer to invest in new jobs in countries other than Denmark; and 4) that they are currently pursuing an asylum policy that does not allow Denmark to say stop if you experience conditions such as those experienced last autumn. The government goes some way here, but the government doesn't go far enough. Especially when you look at the tax at work, we in the Liberal Alliance could do better than the government does. Let me briefly outline what we are proposing about the tax on labour income. We believe that no tax should be paid on the first DKK 84,000 you earn a year, or DKK 7,000. a month. This will provide a tax relief of approx. 20,000 kroner. For everyone at work. In addition to that, we believe that there should be a maximum tax of 40%. of all income exceeding DKK 84,000. a year. That is our policy, and before the left quite ritually accuses us of not wanting to let the widest shoulders carry the heaviest burdens, there is just a little fact I have to sketch out for you. If you compare two people with an income of DKK 200,000, respectively. a year and 2 million. kr. a year, then the person who makes 2 million. kr. a year, with the Liberal Alliance's tax policy pay 16 times more in tax than the person who only earns DKK 200,000. a year. So the person who earns ten times as much will pay 16 times as much tax. This is particularly the result of the high, high base deduction that we place on the lowest incomes. As the tax system is linked today, the person who has an income of 2 million will pay. kr., not 16 times as much in tax as the person who has an income of 200,000 kr., but only 12.5 times as much. So there is more difference between the tax payments made by the rich and the tax payments made by the less wealthy with the Liberal Alliance system than there is with the tax system that exists today. With LA's tax proposal, the person earning 2 million will pay. kr., 16 times as much in tax as the person earning DKK 200,000, and with the current tax system pays the person earning $2 million. kr., 12.5 times as much tax as the person who earns 200,000 kr. So I guess now all the talk that the Liberal Alliance will not let the widest shoulders carry the heaviest burdens, and thank you for that. How are we going to get there? When we look at the government's 2025 plan, we find, unfortunately, that the government is not pursuing the policy on which the Left was elected. The left went to the poll that the public sector in Denmark, which is already one of the world's most expensive, should not be even more expensive instead the money should be used to lighten the tax at the bottom. We can now see that the government wants to increase public spending by 22 billion. kr. in 2025 and only wants to lighten the tax at the bottom by 4.5 billion. kr. In other words, in the past year, the Left has had quite different priorities. Now it is much more important for the public sector, which is already one of the world's most expensive, to become even more expensive than for the tax to be relieved at the bottom. If we instead set aside the 22 billion. kr., with which the Left will increase public spending, for tax cuts at the bottom, then we could get there that no one paid a penny in tax on their wage income of the first 5,000 kr. they earn every month, or of the first 60,000 kr., they earn every year not a penny. That would be a tax relief of just over 10,000 kroner. a year or nearly 1,000 kroner. a month for everyone at work, from the lowest-paid cashier to the blacksmith, to the carpenter, to the architect, etc. Everyone would have a relief of just under 1,000 kroner. a month or more than 10,000 kroner. a year. However, the government unfortunately has other priorities, the government would prefer public spending to grow by 22 billion. kr. Then there's the famous treasure at the top of the pay scale. The Liberal Alliance wants to lighten that tax, and there are two reasons for that. Firstly, it does more harm in society than it does in the treasury. If you charge 2 kroner. in top tax in Denmark, according to the conservative models of the Ministry of Finance, it really only leads to 1 DKK. more in the Treasury because economic activity is being lost, which would have earned income in the Treasury from taxes other than the top tax if you did not have it. So we make the Danes 2 kr. poorer with the top tax and receive only a penny in the treasury every time. It's not a good business. It's like a comprehension that goes to the market and trades a cow for rotten apples. We should not do that, and these are even the figures of the Ministry of Finance, and they are cautious. The wise men say that we, for every time we charge 2 kroner. in top tax, gets a large, round zero • 0 kr. There is no extra money in the Treasury as a result of the fact that we have top tax, so the wise men say, and that is so the tension in the economists' assessment of what top tax contributes in society. There has been much talk of uncertainty, and it is true that there is uncertainty in that range, but there is no uncertainty that it will benefit the economy if we lighten the top tax. The only uncertainty is how much it will benefit the economy if we lighten the top tax. You cannot find recognized economists from the University of Copenhagen, from Aarhus University, from the Institute of Wise Men, from the Ministry of Finance or from the Ministry of Taxation, who say that there is no effect. The lowest bid is that 50%. However, top tax relief comes in the treasury from a better economy in society. There is no lower commandment, unless you want to pull out old traversies from the left hand hand side... Jesper Jespersen, Christen Sørensen or something like that. This effect has recently been illustrated by the reduction in registration fees. When we negotiated the Finance Act last year, we did so on the basis of an economic statement that said that in 2016 there would be 19 billion. kr. in the Treasury of the Registration Tax. We negotiated with the message from the Ministry of Finance that if we lowered the registration fee from 180 to 150 per cent, it would mean a minus in the Treasury of 350 million. kr. So there was no 19 billion. kr. from the registration fee, but something in the vicinity of 18.65 billion. kr. The reality is that we have got 20.1 billion. kr. in the Treasury in 2016, if the estimate now holds. That's not 19 billion. kr. as provided, before we reduced the registration fee, but now they say that there will be 20.1 billion. kr. in the Treasury, i.e. 1 billion. kr. more than was guessed before we lowered the registration fee. It is an example of dynamic effects that work. After all, the Danes have accepted the registration tax exemption by going out and buying larger and safer cars. They don't buy anymore as many Oops as they used to. They buy more family cars with room for the whole family and also a pram, and that is the result. My time's up. I just want to say that we expect good negotiations. We like the reports that have come here today from the platform from the Danish People's Party and the reports that have come from the Left, and we also expect good reports from Conservatives. We believe that things are going well and we are very optimistic.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906143536	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall now proceed to brief remarks. First it's Mrs. Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906143543	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. It is refreshing when we have colleagues in here who stand by what they mean and dare say it out loud. That is why I would just like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur cannot tell whether it is true that the vision is a Denmark where there is a greater difference between rich and poor than the one we see today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906143609	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906143611	Yes, it is true that if we adopt the whole of the Liberal Alliance's economic programme, the inequality in Denmark will be approximately at the level of inequality in Sweden, which means that it is slightly greater economic inequality than today, but not greater than inequality is in Sweden.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906143626	Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906143630	It was, of course, a rather low vision for the most liberal party we have in the Folketing, if that is the way it is formulated. It was a humble wish if it really is, sir. Ole Birk Olesen dreams at night. In concrete terms, however, the policy means that, with what the Liberal Alliance has already voted through and not just what the Liberal Alliance is dreaming of with the benefits of integration, the ceiling on cash aid, etc., there is a doubling of the number of children growing up in poor families in the future compared to what we have seen in the past. Can the rapporteur confirm that this is the intention?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906143710	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906143712	No, I cannot confirm that this is the intention of us, among other things. voted in favour of a ceiling on cash benefits. The intention is for more children's parents to get to work. We have this idea and we think it's a sensible idea, but that children also benefit from growing up in homes where Mom and Dad are at work, instead of growing up in homes where Mom and Dad through very large parts of their children's lives are on transfer income, so that children don't get to know what's good, it's to earn their own money and support themselves. We in Denmark have been moving in a very bad direction over the last 50 years, in the direction of increasing numbers of parents not in work, and this problem has been exacerbated by the influx of immigrants who have very major problems in gaining access to the Danish labour market, and we must have done something about that. The goal is not poverty, the goal is to get parents into work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906143806	Then it's mr. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906143809	I would like to sign for the Liberal Alliance's announcement, of course both on the platform. It's not so surprising, because we know the points of view, but also for the reception of the plan. It is, of course, a great plan that contains a great many elements, and I think we will also have some very good discussions about this in the Ministry of Finance in the coming period. I also recognise and also share the ambition that we should work together to bring down the tax on labour. It is one of the world's highest taxes, and we must be able to do better. I'm just gonna ask sir. Ole Birk Olesen about something. Now it is the Left that has put forward a 2025 plan, and the Liberal Alliance has previously, I think it was last year, put forward its version of a 2025 plan, but that is probably what we have to deal with. We have an honorable Social Democrat who wants the government of this country, but they cannot even put forward almost a financial bill. Mr. Mr Ole Birk Olesen, is it not a rather strange way for us in the debate to discuss up against a wall without there really being any response?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906143909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906143911	Yeah, I think so. When we were in opposition, and we are, in comparison with the Social Democrats, only a relatively small party, we put forward a well-thought-out 2025 plan, in fact, also a quite comprehensive 2025 plan, contrary to what one might think when one hears the Prime Minister say that the Left is the only party looking at the whole, while the rest of us are looking only at details. I do not understand why the Socialists, since they are now a party that wants to have the Prime Minister's office, do not want to say: what do the Socialists want with this society? When, for example, you're gonna have to do something about it. If the government's proposal is criticized for the fact that the relief at the bottom is too small, we must then put forward how much we want the relief to be and where the money should come from. When you criticise all sorts of other things, if you do not want to make that saving, you must also say what you want to do to find money for the things you want to spend money on. I think we are missing that, so I agree with Mr Beazley. Jacob Jensen in.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906144014	Let's move on. Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted
ParlaMint-DK_20160906144020	Thank you. That the Liberal Alliance believes it is a good idea to spend a large billions of dollars to lower the tax for some of the wealthier in Denmark is known matter. It is also known substance that Enhedslisten thinks we can prioritize in a wiser way. So let's just leave it alone and instead look at the financing of this whole plan. Because here I do not really understand the policy of the Liberal Alliance, even within your own logic. A good deal of these tax discounts on, among others. According to the plan, the top tax will be paid by raising the tax for the old-age pensionists and early retirement pensioners and the unemployed by abolishing this so-called green bottom allowance. This means that they get less money paid out after tax. That's what we call raising the tax. So those with the lowest incomes have to pay more in tax so that those who have the most can pay less in tax. So my question is actually quite simple: if the Liberal Alliance thinks that it is reasonable for people who have worked their whole lives and paid their taxes or, for early retirement, for people such as myself. If you have a disability, you must receive a tax increase in order to provide tax relief, among other things. Up to the top of the income scale?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906144137	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906144138	It is not our proposal that the green cheque, which is a sort of tax rebate, should be abolished. However, there is the logic of the government's proposal that the green check was introduced to free people with low incomes for the increases in green taxes that were adopted at that time. After all, one of the green taxes is being reduced, or actually it is being completely removed, namely the PSO tax, and then there is the logic that, when you lower the green tax, you can also remove the green cheque, which was a compensation for the rising green taxes. However, the Liberal Alliance has presented a 2025 plan in which we do not remove the green cheque, but find the savings that need to be made, the efficiency that is needed to ease tax where we want to lighten taxes, and to consume more where we want to consume more, in all sorts of other ways. But now we are going into a course of negotiations, and everyone has to give and take, and if anyone is sticking to this with the green cheque, we have to see whether it can be done or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906144244	Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906144253	Thank you. That was, in fact, an honest answer. It's not the Liberal Alliance that will stand firm that this green check needs to be kept. It's true that it has compensated for some green taxes, but there's still a lot of them left, even after this plan. Actually, this just means that a folk pensionist gets less money into the account per year. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I think that this is interesting and I also think that many of the folk pensioners who are watching will find it interesting that the Liberal Alliance, with their negotiating capital, is more busy defending that people who really have a lot of money in our society should have something more, but will not use their negotiating capital to ensure that the folk pensionist and the early retirement pensionist should not have their taxes set up. It says something about what interests are intended to be defended in this process.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906144341	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906144343	So we still have the benefit of seeing how the overall plan affects the economy of a folk pensioner. Because this isn't the only element of the plan, there are other elements as well. And then, when we have been in the process of negotiations, where things are also being done and the parties are getting their stuff with, what is the impact on the population pensionist's economy? How would things, for example? developing if property taxation was allowed to increase as provided in the current system, versus how property taxation is allowed to develop in the new property taxation system? When all this is added together, it is easy to get out there where the old-age pensionist is less expensive.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906144424	Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906144427	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteur. I would like to ask the rapporteur how the Liberal Alliance feels about the fact that the UN's sustainability objectives are apparently not being met in this plan and that the Paris Agreement is not being implemented. Now we heard the rapporteur say from the platform that it is true that inequality is increasing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906144451	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906144454	Unfortunately, I have to ask what UN sustainability objectives are being referred to there. Now we are talking about inequality afterwards, but I am not aware that the UN has sustainability targets for inequality. And if the UN has it, I do not think it has any relevance for Denmark, which is the world's most equal country. I hope that Mrs Bock will be able to tell me about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906144518	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906144521	Yes, but the UN's 17 sustainability goals go, among other things. We have to reduce inequality both between countries and in our own countries, and that is what we have agreed to. And we have joined the Paris Agreement, which is about the environment if it is not Mr. Ole Birk Olesen knows. So I would like to repeat the question: what is the rapporteur's position on the fact that inequality is now evidently increasing in view of the fact that the rapporteur, as he himself states, will help to further increase inequality in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906144549	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906144550	Well informed that the UN has sustainability goals on the development of inequality in Denmark, I would say that I disagree with the UN that inequality must not become a little greater in Denmark, because there are a number of benefits that can be achieved for the Danish economy, by pursuing a policy that has a side effect, that there is a little less economic equality in Denmark. Working in Denmark must pay off. It must be worthwhile to work more in Denmark. And that has the side effect of a little less economic equality. And I don't think that's a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906144622	Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906144625	There is almost such a spring atmosphere in the Parliamentary Hall today, although it is autumn, because first the Danish People's Party opened the ball by saying that now time has passed the tax freeze on housing. The Left went as far as the poor rapporteur could now be allowed to go, but at least the government has not included the tax freeze in its proposal, and it must be understood that the Left too is aware that the tax freeze we have at the moment does not in any way guarantee the homeowners. On the contrary, then gallops the root cause out there. So it is time to make up for the current tax freeze and make a stable, proper solution for Denmark's homeowners. Does the Liberal Alliance really agree with that too, that the tax freeze is simply a saga and that time has run out?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906144708	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906144710	The Liberal Alliance voted that the tax freeze on the property value tax should continue and that the tax ceiling on the land tax should be converted into a tax freeze. So we want to expand the tax freeze. But we are now in negotiations and there are a number of shortcomings with the current system. One of the shortcomings is that the large tax increases that have been in the real estate sector in recent years have been imposed largely exclusively on people living in family houses because they have had this tax freeze on the property value tax but have not had a tax freeze on the land tax, and it is a little difficult to see the fairness of that. So why are those who live in a family house who have to pay the entire tax bill in the residential area? So I think we have to say that now things are being thrown up and then we have to catch them again in the most appropriate way, and in any case I think that most of this will have an effect after another election.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906144813	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906144815	I think that is actually a rather constructive approach to it. We are also open to finding the good model, as long as it is not one that completely undermines the entire system of property tax, because on the part of Radicals we would rather lighten the tax at work than lighten the tax on property, but also one that is more reasonable. I therefore agree with the idea of creating equality between land and city and houses and condos, etc. Could the Liberal Alliance see itself as part of such a solution that it was agreed in a broad settlement to say that we must now find a new way of assessing property, but that if we find it in a proper way, we simply say that housing taxation increases with wage developments, no more and no less, so that all homeowners have security, no matter what type of housing they live in?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906144901	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906144903	I am not going to reject anything at this stage, but go for the best possible result for homeowners, and the result that Mr. Martin Lidegaard outlines here, is better for the homeowners than the system that has been in the 00s and up. That is why it is a little funny that when the Radicals presented their proposals, they said that there would be an additional revenue in the Treasury which would be spent on all sorts of good things, but when the economists had looked at it, they said: No, this actually means a small amount of revenue for the Treasury, because the property owners win on the fact that you are implementing this. So it was against what Radicals have said in the past about increased housing taxes, because it was actually less increased housing taxes than with the existing system, but it sounds fine and at least better than the current one.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906144946	Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906144949	Thank you. I would like to pursue the question of what pensioners are getting out of this, let alone a folk pensionist who only has his old-age pension. What does the pensioner get, who has paid taxes and worked all his life, for example? Do you live in a rental house? What's the pensionist getting out of this 2025 plan?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906145012	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906145014	After all, the pensioner receives a PRS tax that disappears as an example. The pensioner may also have a ground debt that will not increase as much as provided, and even if the pensioner lives in a rented residence, it is also the case that the landlord pays ground debt and passes on that cost to tenants. So it's not that easy to predict. But I must also say that the Liberal Alliance is going to these negotiations to increase the benefit of working. It actually means more to us to lighten the tax for those who go to work than it does for us to lighten the tax for those who do not go to work. We want to make all things better for all people, but in a choice between facilitating the tax for people at work and for example. increase the pension in Denmark we choose to lighten the tax at work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906145115	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906145116	No, sir. Ole Birk Olesen says that if he breaks up with this plan, he'll see that it's not about the pensionist living in a rental apartment having to have more, it's about the national pensionist living in an apartment having to have significantly less, because the housing allowance is deteriorating, the PRS that disappears is only a third or a quarter of the green check that also disappears. It doesn't go one way or the other, far from it. With the deterioration that is happening and where the pensioner does not get anything out of it, I do not ask Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, what the national pensionist should have extra, the national pensionist who has worked all his life. I'm asking why that old-age pensionist is paying the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906145159	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906145201	The slight adjustment of the housing benefits system for pensioners, which has been discussed in recent financial negotiations, mainly leads to people not experiencing such large increases in the future, and only to a lesser extent to some who will experience less. What is being worked on is a solution where nobody gets less, because it is not finally fixed. So it is not about people losing a lot of money, but about the fact that the increase, which in the future will be very great if nothing is done, should not be so great.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906145236	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906145239	I would like to ask a few questions about possible negotiating results for the Liberal Alliance. If we now imagine a scenario in which we will have some very large tax cuts, massive reductions in corporation tax, perhaps the elimination of the bottom tax, and if we get rid of the top tax completely for all incomes under a million, will the Liberal Alliance vote in favour of such an agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906145305	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906145307	Yes, we always vote for everything well. Anything that improves the situation for the Danes, we vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906145316	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906145318	I think that is very nice to hear, because that means that there are opportunities to find solutions where you do not just lock yourself onto one point. But if you get a unified and indestructible good agreement from the Liberal Alliance point of view, then you are willing to strike. I'm really glad to hear that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906145335	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906145337	That is correct, but I believe that Mr. Rasmus Jarlov misunderstands it as if for that reason I say that we will protect the government. Well, we are voting for everything well, but we have set up a government with the idea that it should lower the tax on the last earned crown by 5 percentage points. So even if there are proposals in the Chamber, which we think we must vote in favour of, because they are better than what is today, we may well think that this is not good enough and that it does not meet the requirements that were made when the government was put in place to make a relief of at least 5 percentage points on the last crown earned.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906145412	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906145416	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Liberal Alliance and to the rapporteur for also lifting such a slightly dry budget debate to a level where it is also about value policy and where you want to go. I have a question. In the last 20 to 30 years, we have seen a wage trend in which they are 10%. The richest and especially the richest percentage have become much richer, while we have not seen quite the same development for the rest of society. My question is this: is this a positive development, from the point of view of the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906145444	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906145446	It is a positive development if you live in a society where there is so much economic activity that everyone gets richer; that everyone who goes to work gets richer. This may sometimes lead to some becoming more richer than others getting richer, and we think that is okay if it is the result of those who become more richer also becoming more productive. In other words, if it is a natural wage formation in which people are paid as earned, in relation to how much value they have for the company in which they are employed, then we certainly have no problem with it. We are not opposed to some people getting more than others. We want a free society where the economy is active and where those who cannot do so themselves are taken care of. We do not want a society that is stiffened in concrete and in which no one can run away from the others if they have otherwise made an effort to justify it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906145541	Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906145545	However, it is indisputable that inequality has increased, and the rapporteur has also just said that we would like to see inequality increase more. I understand that we have to hit the Swedish level, because then we are in the goal. But would the rapporteur not just say that the fact that there is greater inequality is beneficial in itself, if that is what reflects the position of the Liberal Alliance?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906145602	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906145604	But when you say such things as that it should pay to work or that it should pay to work more, it is an expression of the belief that there should be a greater difference between those who work and those who do not work and those who work a lot and those who work little. That's what's in it. But we have no objective of such inequality. We have a goal that there must be motivation to make an extra effort. I mean, if everyone wanted to work so hard and earn the same amount and work equally well, we wouldn't have anything against it. But we need a policy that rewards people who make an effort.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906145646	Sir. Orla Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906145650	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur. I have calculated the same examples with DKK 200,000 respectively. and 2 million kr. After all, I came up with a very different result. Well, I'm glad that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen reassures me that the most wealthy are going to pay more in tax than those who pay the least in tax. So I just have to ask: does this mean that the Liberal Alliance has abandoned the desire to make this society more unequal and has listened to the arguments that child poverty is widespread in the West and on the outskirts, that the government will again take away from people on transfer income, that the reduction in top tax goes to North Zealand, that few women pay top tax, and that the only thing that is agreed is that there is uncertainty about the effect of lowering top tax? Does this mean that the Liberal Alliance is now engaged in creating greater equality in our society?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906145754	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906145756	I'm afraid I have to say that if Mr. Orla Hav has calculated on this and has reached figures other than those I have presented from the platform, it is very likely that Mr. Orla Sea has miscounted. As it is today, a person with an income of DKK 200,000 pays. 64.239 kr. in income tax, while a person with an income of 2 million. kr. pays 80.01.1 kr. in income tax if you do not have any deductions next to it. DKr 82.011 is 12.5 times more than 64,239 DKK. On the other hand, I must state that it is the case that if you get the great relief at the bottom that the Liberal Alliance wants to implement, and if we remove the top tax that the Liberal Alliance wants, there is a difference in the tax payments on the two incomes, so that whoever earns a lot pays 16 times more in tax. So I think that Mr. Orla Sea has miscounted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906145906	Orla Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906145908	I was trying to sign with Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. The calculation presented gave the impression that the Liberal Alliance is now in favour of achieving greater equality in society. That's kind of the receipt I gave you. So I can see through the math. But isn't the problem that this society is experiencing that people don't invest? We are in a situation where 600 billion have been paid out. kr. in dividends for shares. That money won't be invested. Investment in Danish society has fallen by just about 20%. Is it a society that sizzles and bubbles of investment desire because the rich have good opportunities to invest in this society? Are they not the ones to be focused on, rather than being after them with small incomes?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906145956	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906145958	We also have a focus on that. The problem is that the return on an investment when creating a job in Denmark is less than the return on an investment if you create the job abroad. This is why Danish companies are currently creating more jobs abroad than foreign companies create jobs in Denmark. That's the way it is. That's a problem. We can solve this by reducing the costs of creating jobs in Denmark, on the one hand, and by reducing taxation on the profits that will be generated by creating jobs in Denmark, on the other.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906150034	Then it's mr. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906150039	I understand that the Liberal Alliance wants a 5 percentage points reduction in top tax and that it is a red line. I understand that the Liberal Alliance wants it to be for everyone and that it is a red line. But I have not yet heard the Liberal Alliance say when this is to be introduced. It's got to be per. January 1, 2017, or should it be later? If it is later, we will have plenty of time to change everything again when, after an election, we will have a new government and a new majority will be added. So when is this going to come into force?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906150113	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906150115	Here I must give credit for a really relevant and good question, because that is also a matter of consideration. Unfortunately, however, I have to disappoint because I cannot tell you here and now on the platform about our debate in this area. But it's true that if the parties in the blue block form a majority and make this 2025 plan together, and if the result of that is that we can get our top tax relief in 2025, while the others need to spend their money in 2017, then we've probably been cheated a little. So that, of course, is also on our notice board. But thank you for informing us. If we had forgotten, that is, that it was a relevant topic, then it was very good that Enhedslisten could bring it to our attention.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906150206	Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906150208	This has been the experience of getting praise from the Liberal Alliance down here in the Parliamentary Chamber. But it is not because I have to give good ideas to the Liberal Alliance in relation to the negotiations that are going to be, but is it not very strange that you have very fixed red lines on the content when it comes to percentage points that the top tax should be lowered and when it comes to whether it should apply to everyone, but that you do not seem to have any lines at all in relation to when it should be phased in? I just have to say that this is an incredibly happy news for us in the Enhedslisten. For then, when there will be an election next time and we will hopefully have a new majority, then I can promise that one of the first things that will be included in a budget debate with a new government is to roll back exactly everything that will be decided on in this area right away.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906150250	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906150253	I am fully aware of this will be the goal of Enhedslisten. I can then be delighted that Mr. Benny Engelbrecht of the Social Democrats has stood here on the platform without saying that they will roll back a top tax relief. I have to say that they will not do so, otherwise he would have just said it for the sake of peace in the red bloc and so on. In order not to be criticised by Enhedslisten, he would have just said that well we roll it back immediately after a choice. But he hasn't said that, and it's because he won't do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906150321	Erik Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906150325	Thank you. Now we have heard Mr. Anders Samuelsen said several times that top tax relief was not just a matter of tax policy, but that it was also a matter of value policy. That is why I would like to say that when the Liberal Alliance also makes a great deal of money out of telling the public sector that there must be less user charges, and we must cut the public sector, that must also be the expression of value policy. I would like the rapporteur to be a little more specific. What is it that the public sector is solving today that the public sector is not going to solve if the Liberal Alliance is given power that they are paying attention to?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906150403	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906150405	Well I can stand here and list some things about city bikes that cost a fortune, and benches with lights in and 50 communication employees in a municipality etc., but it's not there for real batter. Where it bats is not where you cut down on the service to the citizens, but where you streamline the production of the service. The former government and the author is a member of one of its parties... set up a Productivity Commission with the smartest heads that the government could find, and the Productivity Commission analysed three heavy areas in the municipalities and concluded that in the three areas of childcare, schooling, care for the elderly, the municipalities could together be 10%. If only the municipalities that are not as efficient were as effective as the municipalities that are already effective. Then the Productivity Commission also said that there was a presumption that, in the regions and in the state too, there would be an equivalent efficiency potential, and that is what we are proposing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906150511	Erik Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906150515	That's very interesting. Now I'm gonna say that I've spent a lot of years of my life in the communal world before I started in here. However, what the rapporteur says is that it can be made more effective in terms of day care, in relation to primary school and in relation to care for the elderly. I would just like to say that this is an interesting point of view and I am quite sure that the day care providers and the school teachers and nurses who at the moment think that they are running really, really fast without really being able to provide the services they really want are of interest. They must then run even stronger, and you must have even more children per. the day-care institution, or even more nurses, must be dismissed in the public sector. That's interesting. But, of course, it is also value policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906150553	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906150555	But I'm not the one who says that. It is, after all, the committee of experts set up by the author's government that says so. And there are municipalities that are already doing so today. The most efficient municipality is allegedly the municipality of Frederiksberg. There you already solve the tasks as cheaply as other municipalities could if they were as skilled and as skilfully managed as the municipality of Frederiksberg. So it's not like it's some kind of science fiction vision. It's already out there today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906150630	Then it's mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906150634	Thank you. The ceiling for cash benefits has many faces, and there are 34,000 children affected by it, and one of them is Laura 13 years old from Kolding. She is a part of DR's program • Childhood on welfare, and she tells there bravely, I think about how she sits at home with pain in her stomach when her friends go to Kolding Storcenter and McDonald's, because the mother cannot afford to give her money so she can take part in social activities. She tells how she fears that the girlfriends think she's boring because they can never afford to go on vacation in her family. - Sir... Ole Birk Olesen does not explain to me how it can be a value policy objective to pursue a policy that has the direct consequence of creating more with the living conditions that Laura so courageously describes in the programme?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906150729	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906150731	But it has to be the case that there is a difference between being at work and not being at work. Unfortunately, that is how we can see today that in the groups in society, for whom there is the least difference, there is also the greatest unemployment because it is not worth their while to get to work in the jobs they can get. So there has to be a difference, including in families that have children. I guess so, sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen also agrees that there must be a difference, even if people have children, because we do not want children to grow up to an excessive extent in families where there is no link with the labour market. Even sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen does not think it should be the case that children in families where parents do not work can afford exactly the same things as children in families where both parents work. Even Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, I guess.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906150829	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906150831	I would ask the rapporteur to bear in mind that the policy of the rapporteur leads to 34 000 children being affected by the poverty which means the living conditions that Laura courageously tells us about in the television programme. 34,000 children are affected by the ceiling on cash benefits, and this has an employment effect of 500. Is it really a price that is worth paying for such a modest employment effect that we have to have more of the kind of stories that Laura very grippingly tells in this DR programme?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906150908	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906150910	The employment effect of the ceiling on cash benefits is a short-term assessment. Listen, when we, for example... in Denmark adopt a smoking policy and we raise the price of cigarettes, so we know that very few of those who are already smoking today are stopping as a result. However, one suspects that some people may not have started smoking because of the policy they are pursuing, and this is also the case in the unemployment system. We know that it is difficult to get those who have been in the unemployment system for 10 or 20 years into work, but we are also concerned about those who are entering the unemployment system so that no bad habits are established, including in the families that have children.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906150956	Then it's mr. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906151000	In the alternative, we are constantly looking for the steps that allow us to take some steps together, including across party differences. Yesterday I had a debate in the Stock Exchange on a common core issue for LA and the alternative of our entrepreneurs. The title was that we would like to give the opportunity to pay a greater proportion of the salary to employees in employee shares for entrepreneurial companies. The title was then that the alternative can easily see itself in the 2025 plan. Some wondered, because it is actually a very small part of the 2025 plan that we can see ourselves in. Very large areas make us think that this is a completely wrong direction. I have said this as a disclaimer to the rapporteur, so that he should not feel that I am going to bind the rapporteur to what he might say 'yes' or 'no' to now. With this in mind, can the rapporteur say that it is not necessary to make a complete confession simply by giving a small credit, that there may well be derived positive effects in elements of the Danish economy that the models of the Ministry of Finance do not take along? I mean, I'm talking about the calculations we get from the Ministry of Finance every now and then that indicate a direction for society. Can there be positive elements that are not there that are created by some derived effects? Because in everyday terms and generally, when we have the debates, it sometimes sounds as if we do not recognise it in the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906151117	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906151119	No, sir. René Gade then heard wrong. We recognise on an equal footing with the Ministry of Finance that the Ministry of Finance cannot count on all derived effects because it is too difficult. They count on it where they think they have a knowledge base that allows them to count qualified on it. If, for example, you're gonna have to... If you take such things as top tax incentives, the Ministry of Finance only calculates the extra labour supply effect into it. They don't count extra productivity into it. That is why there is a difference between the very cautious assessments made by the Ministry of Finance and the rather more optimistic assessments made by the wise men. This is because the wise men include productivity increases as a result of reductions in marginal tax while the Ministry of Finance does not. So that is what modern Danish calls a no-brainer to say: yes, Mr. René Gade is right.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906151211	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906151213	I would like to respond to this by saying that there are rumours sometimes that in the alternative we do not recognise economic models. That's not true. We very much recognise economic models that go in and mark a direction or set a framework for what it is that we need to be aware of that might go wrong or go well in the future. That said, I would really like us to go in with the Liberal Alliance and look at what these are all derived effects we don't get when we look at the models today, when we go out and make budgets, for example when taxes are counted, or when entrepreneurial benefits are counted. In other words, one could have a debate where one did not hurry to say that LA is sitting up at the top of a tree or that the alternative is sitting out in a ditch when we came up with something that pointed to a dissident. I would like to see us helping each other to get through with new thinking.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906151301	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906151303	Yeah, I'd love to. But derived effects that have to be included in the models must have a character in which, with a certain knowledge base, you can count on it. And that's a problem if you ask them to count on something they can't count on. I also have to give a ruffle to the alternative, because when the alternative in the debate that has taken place has questioned whether Denmark would become a poorer country, if the Danes worked less, then I think it has contributed to an attempt to foolish the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906151332	Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906151336	Thank you. Now I'm a simple man who's only in here, and it's such that sometimes it can be a little difficult to understand the a little peculiar logic that prevails in here. That's how I usually work as a mentor at a job center, which means I work with some of these cash benefits recipients. And there I understand from the rapporteur that he is aware of a mechanism which means that if you push people into the economy, in other words if you force them out of their own homes or reduce their social conditions, they should, for some reason, get easier to enter the labour market. I would like to hear a little bit about what kind of mechanism this is. I have to say that my experience in this area has taught me that it is actually exactly the opposite. Then it is the case that the longer you push people out, the longer you push them away from the labour market. If you make sure that they cannot stay in the accommodation they have, or if you make sure that conditions are deteriorating for their children, then it will actually be very much harder for them to enter the labour market. So I would like to hear what kind of special mechanism the rapporteur is aware of, which makes it easier for them to get back into the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906151443	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906151446	I believe that almost all unemployed people in Denmark wholeheartedly want to get a good and well-paid job, that is. a job where the salary is worth the work and is seen as worth the work and where the work is exciting and evolving. Unfortunately, not everyone can get jobs that they think live up to it. They are then referred to and should be assigned to take the jobs they can then get, i.e. those who just feed on the table. There is a problem that there is too little difference in terms of taking some jobs that you don't think are exciting, that you don't think are developing and where the salary isn't particularly high. It is a problem if the public money is 80%. Or more of what you'd get if you got into a job. That was also what the Social Democrats, SF and Radicals thought was a problem when they sat in government. I maintain that this is still a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906151550	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906151553	Well, then I can just say that if you say, for example... If you are a young person under the age of 30, you are paid about DKK 5,000. This means that you have a available amount of perhaps 2,000 DKK. a month. There is no job that would not give you a significant boost in relation to the income you have. It's not that these people don't want to work. It's because they can't, and there's just what I don't quite understand the philosophy of, when I'm trying to get them to work, there should be some mechanism that would make that if I made sure that they moved to a whole other city, maybe because they can't find a home in the city they live in, then it would bring them closer to the labour market. I just don't understand that mechanism.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906151635	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906151637	This is, in fact, a very interesting example which the questioner raises, with young people under 30 years of age who receive lower cash benefits than if they are over 30 years of age. I do not have the figures with me here today, but it has been concluded many times that unemployment for this particular group has fallen as a result of lowering their cash benefits rate. I do not think you can reasonably sit and shake your head off. It has been established by all the factual people in this country, economic wise men, ministries and so on that it has had an effect. This was also why the scheme previously only applied to young people under 25 years of age was extended by the S-R-SF government to cover them from 25 to 30 years of age. Because you could tell it had an effect. It is only Enhedslisten who disputes it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906151722	Then it's Mrs. Yildiz Akdogan.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906151725	Thank you. The rapporteur justified his argument to my colleague, Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen, that it was good with the ceiling on cash aid and savings on integration benefits, by saying that children benefit from parents working. I would just like to ask the rapporteur: do children also have the opportunity to go to birthdays and go to various sports activities and spend time together, along with their classmates? It's just a simple question: Do children benefit from it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906151800	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906151802	Children benefit from this, and fortunately there is also the possibility of doing so, even though they have made cash benefits reforms. Going to birthdays is something that's typical, because I know children at that age... require a gift for a ten or a twenty. When it comes to going to sports, in many clubs there are special offers to children of parents who have little money where you can get a free space, possibly get it paid by the municipality. I think you can do that in some places. Those options are there. So you should not push the children before you at least because you do not want to do anything about the economic motivation to want a job. I don't think that's a matter of fact.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906151843	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906151846	That was a very interesting answer. In other words, one must be motivated to get to work, says the rapporteur. As far as this new ceiling on cash benefits is concerned, it is more than 4,000 people who are affected by it. Looking at it from the government's own calculations, the employment effect of this cash aid ceiling is only 500 people in work. Is this really the employment logic that the Liberal Alliance thinks it is necessary to do, as well as motivating more people to get into employment and to make it pay to work?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906151923	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906151924	Well, as I said earlier, I think that is a short-term assessment in those figures. The long-term effect of reducing access to the system is greater than the short-term effect, where you only look at who you get out of the system. So I see something more optimistic about the long-term impact of these reforms than on the short-term impact.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906151946	Thank you, sir. Ole Birk Olesen is no longer a questioner. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906152002	Thank you. I would like to start by commending the government for presenting a 2025 plan, a plan for the future for Denmark. In fact, I think it is commendable that the government is trying to light the long light and dazzle up towards the future. The government has done a great deal to present its plan for the future, its 10-year plan, as an overall plan, but it is not in my optics. It is a growth plan and it is a growth plan that focuses on two things and two things alone: GDP and public finances. This does not focus on welfare, it does not focus on the climate, and it does not focus on the inequality, and therefore not in my optics at all on the whole. Because if you had focused on the whole, it would have taken into account the three bottom lines as we call it, namely both the social bottom line, the environmental bottom line and the economic bottom line, and how the three bottom lines affect each other. It had also been focussed on and it is implicit in the three bottom lines of how to meet the UN's sustainability goals and how to implement the Paris Agreement in Denmark. But that focus has the 2025 plan, the overall plan, not. It focuses on the economic bottom line and a completely absent focus on the globe and climate and on the world we want to pass on to our children and grandchildren. And it gives the impression that the government really sees the economy as the goal and not as the means of achieving the improvements we want for our future. When I read the government's financial bill and when I hear the Prime Minister present his 2025 plan, I am unfortunately confirmed that there is a lack of innovation, that there is a lack of courage and that there is a lack of vision for Danish politics. The handles we know are screwed, and we keep what we already have. There are proposals to increase the retirement age, there are proposals to cut the SU and there are proposals to lower development aid. There are also proposals that we should be able to close borders and that we should be able to reduce public services. What do you do with the money you get out of it? Yes, they are then given as tax concessions to the high-paid and as tax incentives to the business community. Then why do you do that? Well, that's what you do to preserve what we already have to take care of Denmark, as the government says. The only problem is that it does not solve the most pressing challenges that we face, because we must not just preserve. We need to change, we need to renew and, above all, we need to improve, because we need to address the major crises that we see not only challenge Denmark, but the whole world and which we cannot ignore. This is how we really look after Denmark and the rest of our planet. We do not solve the climate crisis and the global inequality crisis by going down in the competitive state's machinery spaces and turning a little on some of the buttons, as we have seen before, and which are also implicit in this 2025 plan. No, we are really about to develop completely new machines. We need to invent a balancing state instead of a competitive state because there is a need for more trust and less control in the public sector and because we need to focus on the three bottom lines: the environment, social sustainability and the economy. We need to create a new tax system because it must be more sustainable both economically, socially and environmentally. We must reduce the tax on labour and raise it on housing, wealth, pollution and financial transactions. We need to develop a whole new economic thinking, moving from cashier thinking to human and environmental thinking, because growth and prosperity must not be created at the expense of people and the environment. Then we must develop a completely new and more flexible labour market, because it is a bottom-up task to distribute work more in solidarity among us and to reduce the stress that is in the population and to ensure that families can have working life and leisure time together. Those visions, the long-term and sustainable visions, are the visions that have to take account of the whole, and I miss them in this so-called overall plan. As is probably reasonably clear here, the financial bill and the 2025 plan are not something that has been made in one of the political laboratories of the Alternative, because there is a desire to cut the SU and make it more loan-based. It hits socially wrong, and it prevents more young people from taking an education. It is also worrying to us that both the Finance Act and the 2025 Plan increase inequality. This is not least due to the tax reductions introduced in the 2025 plan. These are things that would not have appeared in our political laboratories. In fact, we also think that it is out of proportion that the government wants to lower development aid, while at the same time spending more of the money reserved for the world's poorest to deal with our domestic political tasks. Nevertheless, it is not the deterioration of the SU or the distribution of tax relief or the reduction of development aid that makes us most impressed. No, actually, these are the things that aren't at all involved, and I've been talking a little bit about it. It is precisely that we do not resolve the climate crisis with the plan and that we do not implement the UN's new sustainability goal of reducing inequality. It is a mystery to me how the government has managed to create a 10-year plan that totally ignores the climate crisis. The climate crisis is undoubtedly the greatest threat to society and the planet, and I believe the Prime Minister himself has acknowledged this to the political leader of the Alternative, sir. Uffe Elbæk, during a question hour in the Assembly Hall. The current situation of rising temperatures, more natural disasters and an increasing lack of resources underlines the seriousness of the crisis, but what it also emphasises is that it is now that we need to start acting if we are to prevent the climate crisis from turning into a permanent climate disaster. Nevertheless, the ambitions on behalf of the climate are completely absent from this 2025 plan. And, in fact, it goes the wrong way when the government wants to abolish the PSO system, which we know will lead to an additional emissions of approx. 3 million t CO2 Of course I fully respect the government's right to set different priorities, but when you present a 10-year plan as an overall plan and you completely ignore the climate crisis, which is the biggest threat to the planet and society, then you could say that it is like standing in a burning house and discussing the color of the curtains instead of putting out the fire. Then I will come to the positive, and that is that it is planned to improve conditions for Danish entrepreneurs, and we are very pleased about that. In the alternative, we launched 26 proposals in the spring on how to support entrepreneurship in Denmark. Several of these proposals are included in the 2025 plan, but in a slightly modified form, but we think that is very positive. This is true, for example. the proposal that it should be easier as a private person to invest their pension funds in an entrepreneurial enterprise, as well as the proposal that there should be a higher tax credit for people investing in entrepreneurship. I would like to commend that. We had hoped it would have been more ambitious and we would like to provide input on how it could be even more ambitious. But it's a start, and we're really happy about that. But overall, the 2015 plan and the financial bill contain deteriorations on the social and environmental bottom line, so overall we think it gives a minus that Denmark cannot be served with. So I will conclude by saying that I think that in order to be able to call it an overall plan, account must be taken of the three bottom lines of the environmental, social and economic policies, and in this plan the economic bottom line has been primarily taken into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906152909	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is one brief comment, Mr President. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906152913	Thank you to the alternative for the speech and also for the positive comments, not least here in the end. Now it is the alternative that we have on the platform, so you always have to look for alternatives, you might say. That is why I just want to ask you quite simply: what plan does the Alternative's rapporteur think best about the government's 2025 plan or the Social Democrats' 2025 plan?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906152935	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906152937	After all, I have not heard the Social Democrats present a 2025 plan, and I stand up here to discuss the government's 2025 plan, so I think that is what I am making comments on.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906152948	Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906152951	Well, that is true, of course, because the Social Democracy has no 2025 plan. Now, of course, we are talking about the Finance Act. What does the alternative think is best: is it the government's draft Finance Act, or is it the Social Democrats' draft Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906153005	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906153007	I mean, it's a little difficult for me to answer, because it's the government that's putting forward a financial bill, and that's what I want to comment on. I look forward, moreover, to being able to make the alternative's financial proposals, which we will also present when we get to that point.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906153019	No one else has asked for a brief comment. That is why we thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line with Mr Beazley. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906153038	In Denmark, for generations, we have had the tradition that the generation in power passed on a Denmark to the next generation that was even better than what they had got from their parents. That is simply why Denmark has been one of the best places to live for two centuries, one of the most equal societies in which everyone has been able to grow up in relative security when we compare with other countries. We have been able to remain one of the world's most prosperous countries, and lately we have also become one of the world's most greenest countries. We can be proud of this, and the radical ambition is simple, that in our generation too we take responsibility for us and pass on a Denmark to our children and grandchildren, who are even better than what we got. That is why our main priority in this year's Finance Act will be a so-called generational gift. We will ask those in my generation who can, who are not worn out, to take one more year on the labour market when we reach 2025, so that we can afford to invest in our future. In concrete terms, next year we would like to allocate 1 billion. kr. extra for children and education, for day schools, for primary schools, for upper secondary schools, for universities and higher education, for professional colleges, etc. etc. We would also like to do so in 2018, in 2019, in 2020, in 2021, in 2022, in 2023, in 2024 and in 2025 so that in 2025 we can invest 9 billion. kr. more in the next generation than we can today. At the same time, we are setting out to continue the green transition, which is also part of passing on a good Denmark. We are the number one in the world because we have made a green transition that is not only ambitious but has also led to lower prices for electricity and has proved that making economic development is not contrary to being sustainable on the contrary. That development must, of course, be continued, just as we are allocating funds to development aid; we are allocating funds to a large number of efforts to be made without cutting back on basic welfare benefits. This, of course, also includes, as has been debated in the media today, the fact that we do not want to contribute to the deterioration of the world's poorest families, for Denmark's poorest families, which together mean that 7 000 children in Denmark fall below the poverty line. Not only are we opposed to the poverty benefits, i.e. the integration allowance, the ceiling on cash aid and the obligation to earn; we also intend to give room to abolish them as soon as we have the opportunity to do so, if and when we get into government, or at least when we have a different majority than the present one. We are funding everything we propose. We will not pass any unpaid bills on to the next generation, either economically or climateically, or when it comes to ensuring that poverty does not get stuck with the most vulnerable families in Denmark. What is the position of the radical plans in relation to what the government has put forward and which are, after all, closely linked to the 2025 plan presented by the government? Let me say that there are actually many bars in what the government has put forward that we can see ourselves in. First of all, we think it is a relief that we are getting up on the big nails and having some reforms discussed that can really make a difference for the next generation. We think we need to look at whether we can speed up our pension reform when it is the case that we live significantly longer than what we assumed when we made the agreement, but we also recognise that this can only be done if we at the same time take care of those people who cannot remain in the labour market. We are going to have to make a considerably better arrangement than the one we have today for people who are worn out. It will also be part of the demands we make for the negotiations, and we would like to go further and be more ambitious than what the government is proposing, both when it comes to how long we have to stay on the labour market • there we would like to have 1 year extra in 2025 instead of 1⁄2 years • but also when it comes to the people who are worn out, which we will propose will have the opportunity without the entire work test that we know from today, to be able to step by 5 years before others. When it comes to tax cuts, we also think that there are many sensible tactics on the part of the government, especially with regard to the profile of tax cuts, so that all Danes benefit from them. On the other hand, we would certainly like to see funding different from that put forward by the government. As a starting point, we are not interested in cutting back on the SU. We think it's as it should be. That is why we are proposing a more serious withdrawal reform, because then we will be able to finance the entire tax package and the job reserve in that way. Similarly, we believe that in the tax package there are quite excellent incentives to increase pension savings for ordinary people. And I would also like to commend the government for addressing the problem we have had for many years, namely that we have 760,000 Danes who do not save up for their own pension and that we therefore have a huge inequality problem in retirement age. It is also good to get to grips with it. We're also ready to look at property assessments. After all, we think it is time we got rid of the tax freeze on housing, which has created no sign of security, but rather a galloping cause, and in which no one has any interest. And it has been a pleasure to hear today that both DF, Left, Liberal Alliance and several others would like to take a look at it. It is a task that must be solved now, including with new property assessments, so that all homeowners can see themselves in it. No one should go from house to home, but we should not give tax relief every year to the wealthiest homeowners in Denmark either. Then we have to solve the PSO challenge. We would like to see a model different from that put forward by the government, but we are going into it. There are two areas where we think the government is failing and failing disastrously, I would say in the policy they have put forward. One is the green area. You simply cannot find the word climate or green in a single place. How can the Prime Minister get himself to stand up and say that now one would like to consider the next generation and that one is concerned that our children should not have unpaid bills, while at the same time God help me put forward a proposal without a single green initiative, without a single direction on how to achieve our climate targets by 2020, by 2025 or by 2030, and at the same time having the nerve indirectly to denounce the energy reconciliation that 95 per cent. by the Folketing was behind, contrary to any parliamentary tradition, and proposing savings of 7.2 billion. kr. on a settlement that no one has terminated in the last election campaign? I just don't get it. And that is certainly not something we intend to negotiate; we assume as a starting point that the government stands by the settlement it has reached until we hear otherwise, and other things will also be unheard of. But we want more than that, because we do not just want to stand on the backs of the energy reconciliation we have all entered into apart from the Liberal Alliance. We really want to move forward, including with a large number of green initiatives. It's something we can also make a living on. This is something that is part of creating growth throughout Denmark, because many of the jobs we have in this area are in rural areas. So this is the one area where improvements need to be made. The second area is education, which I started by saying is a core priority for us. We think it sounds hollow that the government will create a so-called training pool, while maintaining the 2% re-priority contribution. This year alone and next year alone mean a reduction of 0.9 billion each year. kr. of the education sector in Denmark. This government has led to one in ten high school teachers in Denmark being dismissed, and this hits extra hard on youth education in rural areas. That is why, for us Radicals too, it is a matter of priority in the forthcoming negotiations to get more money for education and training. We would like to roll back both the savings and, as I said, we would also like to set aside what we call a future billion, a billion. kr. extra for our children and young people and their education from ABC to PhD, as some say. So education and the green will be crucial points for us, both when it comes to financial law negotiations and when it comes to the 2025 plan, because it is precisely about the next generation and therefore about the choices we are making now. In a world with such great changes and with such great challenges, but also with such amazing potentials, we owe it to our children to dress the Danish society in the best possible way to meet the challenges and exploit the potentials. It calls for due care, and it calls for us to have the courage to invest in the future. Let me conclude by saying that when I visit nursing homes and discuss with older Danes, it is actually thought-provoking that some of what matters most to people who reach a later age in life is that they believe that their children and grandchildren meet a good future. I think that is how most of us feel, and that is why I believe that the Danes are actually ready to give the generational gift that we can, those of us who are not worn out, can take some extra months on the labour market if we know that we will then be able to afford to invest in our children and grandchildren.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906154048	I would like to thank the rapporteur for this. The first to a brief remark is Mr. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906154054	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Around the retirement age there is no doubt that the Radical Left and the Danish People's Party view this matter very differently. But what I find interesting is that you say that you want to make a different arrangement so that you can retire earlier if you are worn out, and it may sound so enticing. After all, we have tried to reform the social security system in the past, where everything had to be much easier and all the bureaucracy had to be removed. And then you ended up with 33 different benefits, and at least you had a bureaucracy that wanted something. Now the Radicals are saying here that it should not be bureaucratic heavy and you should not go through work tests and all these things. If Radicals cannot then lift a little bit of the veil, because we have heard that before, and I think that many parties want to make this whole work test system more flexible. And it almost gets heavier and heavier every time it's on the table. What kind of arrangement is it that you think can make it easy to resign? Five years before you reach your retirement age?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906154147	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906154149	We have not laid down a definitive system, and so we are quite open as well. But what we imagine is something like that if you raise the pensionable age to 68 years, then you will be when you hit the 63 years, and if you have lost some of your ability to work, for example. can get a medical certificate on it or something similar to it; a simple notification from the municipality could, on the other hand, avoid the entire mill we have today, in relation to the work test and how much work capacity you actually have left. Because today's system is such that if you can work a little, you have to do it and then you can get benefits for the rest. There we have thought of a much simpler line, which says that if you lose some of your working capacity and it is documented in a much simpler way and you can discuss what is most effective then you get rid of the whole mill with the work test. That is quite simply what we are proposing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906154246	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906154248	Well, that certainly sounds interesting. If it were that easy, it would probably have been used in other areas as well. What is in the government proposal is 1⁄2 years old. I understand that one more year will be spent by the Radicals. I would like to ask: when you come to where the old withdrawal reform really is and where you first had to raise the retirement age, will the retirement age have to be raised further by one year, which will already be added to 2025?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906154317	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906154319	See, we haven't really taken a position on that if I have to answer frankly. We haven't based our calculations on it, because it's something that won't matter until we get 5-10 years further forward. But it's a discussion you have to take with your forehead upstairs. I can say that the Radical Left has the basic principle and starting point, and I think I am also answering on behalf of the parliamentary group, without taking the oath that, as we happily live longer and longer on average, the principle must surely be that the extra life we get is distributed so that we can enjoy an even longer retirement. However, in order to afford it a decent retirement with proper health and care for the elderly, those who can must also contribute a little more to the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906154404	Then it's mr. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906154406	I would like to express my sincere thanks for the remarks made here today from the platform and for the reception of the plan. Of course, there are some areas that we look at differently, that goes without saying. But I think it is good that the Radicals can see themselves in many parts and in many of the areas we need to address. I really think that's a good idea. A little along with that, sir. René Christensen asks: in relation to what we are proposing to increase, I would actually rather say adjust, the retirement age with what we have already agreed here in the Folketing, namely that we should be able to produce a 141⁄2 year pension period, I would say that if we succeed in getting through with it or something similar to that, the radical rapporteur can then here today promise me that the Radicals, if the accident should happen, and there should be a new majority after a parliamentary election, will be the guarantee that it will still be something that can be expected just as the last time we made a corresponding adjustment?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906154509	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906154510	In other words, we Radicals have the simple tradition that we mean the same when we are in opposition, as when we are in government, and vice versa. So the policy that I have presented here today is also the one that we, if necessary, are going to vote on and, of course, will fight for in a new government. If there is a settlement that we are entering into, and we assume that it will be a collective settlement there are, as one can hear already, many loose ends, but we are happy to be part of it, so of course we will also take it with us if we have to get back into government.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906154543	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906154544	I would like to thank you for that. It is, of course, important for us to know, and this makes it all the more politically interesting that the Radicals are also part of the idea that the retirement age can be adjusted so that we actually live up to what we have already agreed. It is a happy situation, you can say that you live longer and longer and are healthier and healthier in your old age. That's good. But I would just like to acknowledge that the radical rapporteur here promises at least to work hard to ensure that the accident, as I see it, happens and there will be a new majority, and then the Radicals will still be a guarantee that that agreement can continue to run into a new parliamentary year as well. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906154622	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906154624	Yeah, but you're welcome. We only have an interest in pursuing our own policy, and we have had the views I have expressed here for a long time. But I also hope, of course, that the Left will be prepared to make the concessions that are needed to make such an agreement. And I have to say that I do not quite share the rapporteur's frustration that there could be a different majority. Because I think there is a lot of politics, at least a very radical policy, which will be possible if there is a different majority. But that should not change the fact that we are working, regardless of who has the majority and who comes in the government, for the policy that is ours, and would like to conclude an agreement that promotes it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906154702	Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906154705	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech, however, there is a small correction. Not all Danes will benefit from the tax plan presented by the government. The early retirement pensionist, the old-age pensionist and the unemployed person do not do so, and they are therefore still Danes, even if they do not count in the famous job offer. But it was really something else I wanted to talk about. This was the SU question, because I am, of course, very pleased that the Radicals, like the Enhedslisten, are turning to these cuts in students' livelihoods. It is both stupid from a perspective that we need to train, and it is antisocial. We know that it harms social mobility, and that is why it is very good for us to know that the Radicals are the conciliation party and can block it, so that it can only be implemented after an election, and that is what I hear the government say. What then becomes interesting is what happens after a choice. So my question to the rapporteur is really whether we can, together, i.e. the Enhedslisten and the Radicals, together with other parties, give students a guarantee that if there is a new majority of parties that have rejected this cut, then we can cancel these changes in the SU, these cuts in the student's livelihood before they come into force, because they can only enter into force after an election. I think that would be a very important common signal to send out that the students showed that if they vote for the Radicals, on the Enhedslisten - I am sure that SF and others will also be there - they can count on the SU they have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906154830	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906154831	I would say that let us talk about this when we see how the negotiations in the autumn have gone and go, and when I put it that way, it is of course because if we end up making a big deal in which we manage to cut back sharply on the savings that the government has imagined to make, then we may be obliged, if I may say so, to stand as guarantor of it, and that is why I will not give any guarantees in advance until those negotiations have been completed. We are operating in this way, and not so many parties in here do, it sounds like we are coming in with our positions, and there should be no doubt about that, and you will see that when you now see our financial bill and our 2025 plan that we are not financing anything with savings on the SU. It is not our policy to cut the SU any more, and that is the starting point for us when we enter the negotiations. But sometimes you do, for example. Now here the students, a greater favor by going in and reducing the disaster than by standing outside with clean hands. It's a role. It's not always as grateful as we radicals have tried to take on us before, so my call will be for us to have the talk that Mr. Pelle Dragsted will start when we have been through the rounds of negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906154940	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906154943	Thank you for an honest answer. I think that is commendable. But let us play with the idea that what is happening is what most people expect is that an agreement will be made over in the blue block, which may not be quite similar to what the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister presented, but that this part called SU, which I have not heard violent protests against, either from the Danish People's Party or from the Liberal Alliance or from the Conservatives. There's gonna be a deal. In that case, will the Radical Left help to issue a livelihood guarantee, we can call it to the Danish students, which means that after an election, immediately before these deteriorations enter into force, we find the money to ensure that the students can be sure that the SU they have today can they keep?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906155034	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906155036	I can at any rate issue the guarantee that before we enter the next parliamentary elections, the Radical Left has a very clear message on the point that was asked here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906155045	Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906155050	After all, the Liberal Alliance wants to tighten up asylum policy in Denmark. We continue to believe that if you have a job on hand and can support yourself, you should be welcome, but if you come as an asylum seeker and to a very large extent end up on transfer income, we have a challenge with our system. In connection with the government's 2025 plan, some funds have already been included that have been saved on alien policy from the past, and the government is proposing further tightenings. Is this something for which the Radical Left will help to provide funding, in other words that plan, by tightening asylum policy, or what does the Radical Left say about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906155132	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906155134	As I read the government's proposal for the 2025 plan, there is no direct funding in any alien straits forward-looking. I have certainly not seen them, which is why I see no reasonable reason why the government's immigration policy should be stamped in order to reach an economic agreement. I have just asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration a question about this, because I am quite convinced that the relative fall we have seen in the number of asylum seekers for Denmark is entirely in line with the relative fall we have seen in relation to asylum seekers for Europe in general. It has therefore been said that I am not so convinced that it is the Danish foreign policy austerity that has led to a decrease in the number of asylum seekers to Denmark. Perhaps I have a pretty strong assumption that it is rather more European policies that have worked, including the agreement with Turkey, but it will be interesting to see the answer to the question whether it is European policy or Danish policy that has led to fewer asylum seekers, but to a direct question: no, there is not much of what the government has put forward that we will be able to support. We look at it without prejudice, but at first sight there is not much that is our policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906155246	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906155248	Whatever the fall in asylum seekers to Denmark is due to, there is a saving from last year's introduction of an integration benefit. Whether it had been exactly the same figures, there would still be a pure saving there, and it has been set aside to ease the tax on work in the 2025 plan. That is what was agreed at the time. I must also believe that some of the austerity which the government is proposing will provide a financial contribution. But is it to be understood that the Radical Left will not support further austerity, but that the Radical Left will have no objection to using the funds which may be saved and which have already been saved for the purposes of the Radical Left in a possible negotiating situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906155328	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906155329	It must be understood that the Radical Left is opposed to the benefits of integration, we are opposed to the ceiling on cash aid, which particularly hits hard in Denmark's rural areas in these years, we are against sending 7 000 children below the poverty line, and we will not enter into any agreement where we commit ourselves to continuing that policy. That is why we find room in our draft to reinstate those benefits so that people can live a decent life.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906155356	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906155401	Thank you. According to figures from Statistics Denmark, there is a huge difference between how long and how good an old age you have, depending on what education you have and what work you have, and we probably shouldn't have statistics to tell us, because we can figure that out. Those with the long courses will be longer in the labour market, and they will also have longer in their old age, where they are still in good physical form. Men with a short education can expect approx. 15 years without activity restrictions, as it is called, from 50 years of age. In other words, there are quite a few short-timers who go directly from the labour market to a sick bed in some form or another. They don't have years of retirement where they can take time off and enjoy their retirement, as we call it, rooting in the garden or carrying around the grandchildren because they feel physically bad. My question to Mr. Martin Lidegaard is: What do the short-educated men say when Radicals tell them that they should live longer on average?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906155518	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906155520	As I read the statistics, after all, everyone benefits from that promise in life's age. But that does not change the fact that there are people who are being worn out at the age of 50 is a huge challenge and a huge problem which, whatever the discussion we have here today, we should do much more to resolve, and that will certainly be done with something quite different from withdrawal reforms. It has to be done in such a way that if people are in danger of being worn out at such a young age, we should make it much easier to retrain, get another education, get another job before they are so worn out. After all, it is not a question of whether the retirement age is 67 or 671 1/2 years, whether the type of people described there by Mrs Pernille Skipper will have a dignified life after they have been 50 years, but it is, of course, a question of getting far, far better at taking care of the working environment and changing. When we say that we need to do better for worn-out people in the 1960s, it is in recognition that today there is a group that we do not catch, and that is why we want to do more for them. And if we are to be able to afford it and also to have proper care and, by the way, afford further training and training for those who have not been worn out yet, but who we would like to have an opportunity not to do so, then it requires that we who can take it is you and me and probably most of the people in the Danish Parliament take half a year more than perhaps a year.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906155637	Thank you. The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906155641	In fact, it is the same, that is, that people who are not worn out stay quite a lot longer in the labour market. What I find difficult to understand is that people, including those who are worn out or in danger of getting it really early, are first forced to stay longer in the labour market and then intend to make very, very airy solutions for them. My grandfather was a land mailman, and he had such a hard physical job, but when he retired, he actually had some years left, and he had a utility garden that he was going through, and he could do that for quite a few years. What is wrong with the solution of the Radicals is that you do not recognise that it is actually okay and fair enough that you are not allowed to leave only when you are worn out. Should it not be the case that you have some years in which you have not broken up, even if you have had a hard physical job?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906155735	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906155737	Yeah, but that's kind of why we do it. I do not know where the Enhedslisten's rapporteur is from, that we will first introduce one and then the other. We are therefore suggesting that there is one agreement that must enter into force at exactly the same time and that people who are worn out should have the opportunity to go from five years before everyone else. That is what the radical proposal is about. I find it difficult to see how Enhedslisten, no matter how you try to distort it, can make it antisocial that we will improve the chances of leaving earlier than it is today, and we will do so at the same time. Somewhere else, however, we must also be able to afford to make the efforts for the worn out, including in the field of health, and that is our next proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906155820	Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906155823	Thank you to the rapporteur. I would like to ask about the transport sector. Now Radicals helped to make the agreement which reduced the conditions for electric cars in connection with the increase in the tax on electric cars. What are some things that the Radicals will bring into the negotiations if they are called to them in connection with the 2025 plan for the whole transport sector, including the electric cars?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906155847	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906155849	Yes, well, there will be a very concrete proposal within a few days in the area which I believe Mrs Josephine Fock will really appreciate and which I also think has a fairly fair chance of going through the conciliation circle, which is now small. It's only the Left, the Social Democrats and us. We agreed because we had the promise in the negotiations that if we do not achieve the targets for the sale of electric cars, then the agreement will have to be revised. We hold the other conciliation parties to that. This means that the agreement will have to be revised this year. We have devised, we think, in cooperation with the industry and the electric car alliance, etc. some pretty good measures that we think will enable us to achieve the targets set out in the agreement. But since we've just agreed that we'll only publish it in a couple of days, I'm sorry I can't uncover this, but I promise it's purely a treat. What is important here is that we insist that we hit the targets set out in the agreement, in other words to revise the agreement so that we can achieve them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906155955	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906155957	Thank you for your answer. I will look forward to seeing that very much. I look forward to it. But what about the other actions that lie in the 2025 proposal, for example. development of E45, etc.,? Is this some measures that Radicals fully support in terms of getting a more energy-friendly transport system, can you say, in Denmark? Yeah, that's the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906160021	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906160023	We have simply not had the opportunity to look at all the specific individual investments contained in the plan, but overall, the radical transport policy is such that we give priority to the large sums of money. When we talk about billions and not millions, we give priority to public transport, cycling, electric cars, everything that is moving in the right direction. Therefore, there is no doubt that when we enter into the negotiations on the profile of the investments to be made under the 2025 plan, it is also in that direction that we will draw. Whether there was a single place we came to support, I dare not say I am no longer a transport rapporteur, but what will be our own initiative is the Train Fund DK, which everyone agrees is a good idea, so that we can have proper, coherent public transport in Denmark, and that is that we earmark far more of the annual investments we make in transport in a sustainable direction. I can guarantee that will be radical politics.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906160123	Thank you, sir. Martin Lidegaard. And then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906160146	The Prime Minister lifted Monday night on Facebook veiled the government's 2025 plan. He said: Popularly speaking, we tighten the bardunes on the whole tent, so that it can also stand in storms and storms. The weather metaphor was the closest, the Prime Minister came both the climate and the environment and the climate changes that are going to change everything. And with regard to tents: Honestly, that is something you set up to harass Syrian refugees. This is not an appropriate metaphor for a country. My brother, who is a carpenter and builder, would probably think that the Prime Minister of the country would rather talk about our country as a solid building with a sturdy foundation, and where it is bad style to stain over rust, because it spreads anyway. Our house is cracking these years, and it's going to be broken. Instead, we must keep it in order and take care of it. After all, today we are dealing first with a financial bill that has almost drowned in the catalogue of unpleasant things, also called the 2025 plan or the so-called general plan. The Finance Bill continues last year's marked cuts in welfare, housing benefits and education. The so-called re-priority contribution to education continues at 2%. a year, and the municipalities are still being cut by 1⁄2 million. kr. It is not possible to look in isolation at the financial bill, so I also need to come up with the Prime Minister's plan. These are tax cuts, mostly for the rich, which are financed by young people, with huge savings on education and the SU and the abolition of adult apprentice subsidies. It also affects parents and students with disabilities, as we have heard today. The elderly are also affected by a higher retirement age, and there are benefits instead of collective pay in senior jobs, and there is a deterioration in housing benefits and the green cheque. Finally, there are those who are unemployed, who have reduced their daily allowances, cash benefits and pensions, and they do not get the green cheque either. The validation system will also be abolished. If it wasn't so severe cuts, it was just before you fell asleep out of boredom. Could it be more predictable? Foreigner stragglers to DF, break up with conventions as if it were use or throw away, top tax concessions to the Liberal Alliance and otherwise a fight with the SU. A study by FTF shows that a lower SU could cost society 3 billion. kr. a year. Several studies show that higher SU offers students with a background in low-income families or education better opportunities in the educational system. In the study there was a connection between the size of the SU and the dropout among students with parents without a higher education, whereas children of academic parents are not affected • they will be okay. The PM's making three tricks that he hopes we'll jump on true or false? 1) More to welfare: False. Twenty-two billion. kr. sounds like a lot, but it is far below what the Ministry of Finance itself has assessed to ensure an unchanged level of service. And that is less than the increase in expenditure resulting from the increase in the number of elderly people. Yes, you can see that the number of public employees will be almost constant. Who, then, will care for the many more elderly? 2) The council room is created with this plan: False. The council room is 39 billion. kr. without this plan and there will be nothing more and nothing less with this plan. Some of them are getting rid of tax cuts to the richest and the companies. A huge amount is reserved for the landowners. And the 2025 plan is therefore not necessary. So the Prime Minister will not solve the hammock problem with this plan either, and new measures will necessarily have to be taken. False or both. After all, the government has carefully mixed everything together, and it is claimed that a pensioner receives DKr 3 000. Get out of the plan. But these are not tax cuts; on the contrary, they are affected by the abolition of the green cheque. These are more dubious gains, among others. Because the government believes that when you lighten the tax on companies, it benefits all of us. On the other hand, a director's family receives more than DKK 32,000. The Prime Minister has tried to make the calculation as if the richest gets the most in dollars and cents, yes, but that the lowest paid gets the most in proportion. But that's not true. The director's income increases by 3.7%, and this is significantly more than that of the cashier's. It is a citizen's distribution policy that can be understood. The elderly have to retire later, and when the Prime Minister tries to calm down the worn out with the so-called senior flexible job, yes, it is approx. 100 people • 100 people who benefit from it. The Ministry of Employment's own figures show this. In addition to the whole, the Prime Minister sprinkles remnants from the rich's table and tries to present it as if trickle-down is real, but there is no empiri for it to drip on the clerk when it rains on the priest • no proof that jobs are created when the top tax is lowered. In fact, working hours have fallen as marginal taxes have fallen. However, it is easy, too easy, unfortunately, to criticise government policy, which is why I would like to spend some time talking about what the 2025 plan should solve. The Prime Minister has stated that this is an overall plan to ensure future generations, show responsibility and, quote: develop Denmark, so future generations will say that they added to, they did not withdraw. That's a great ambition. If the Prime Minister should have lived up to these fine words, the plan should have answered three of our greatest challenges and I deliberately say no problems, because if we succeed in doing so, we can ensure a better world for our grandchildren than today. But if we fail to do so, the consequences are both incalculable and limitless. With an English expression from a famous book, our world is feverish, flat as a pancake and overflowing. Earth's temperature is rising, globalisation has broken down borders of good and evil, and we are about to become 9 billion people. It is also important for Denmark and us who live here. We must equip ourselves for a future of climate change, new technologies that we cannot even imagine today, and therefore it is imperative that we change course so as not to end up with a devastating inequality that divides us apart. Inequality rises both at home and throughout the world. Income inequality in the world's countries is now at the same level as 1929, and a large number of organizations are warning against the increasing polarisation that inequality entails. Technological change will affect inequality if we do nothing. Denmark's cohesion is closely linked to our welfare society and with the fact that we are not too unequal. But that's changing. A plan for the future should secure us against it and not increase inequality. Inequality shows its ugly face when vulnerable children do not get the help and care they need and when we do not break negative social heritage. And inequality increases when we do not invest in education. Education and skills to learn new are absolutely fundamental in the society of the future. New technology, automation and robots will radically change our society. Jobs will disappear by mass, and the only way to prepare for a fundamentally different future is through education, qualification and adult education. What helps the mantra that it must pay to work if there is no job to get? We run the risk that a large proportion of the population will be out of work with a very small income, while a small group is foaming the cream. Technological change is happening exponentially and will change the way we work, transport, live and live together. And it's fast. We have no idea what our world looks like in just 20 years. We're not talking about it, but we should, because it's going to change everything. Climate change means that our land is approaching the absolute pain threshold, and it will affect refugee flows and global agricultural and food production. At the same time, Denmark is at the forefront, and green technology creates jobs and is our biggest export product. Unfortunately, the green ambitions are completely absent in the government's financial bill and in the plan. They will abolish the green cheque and abolish the PSP. Investment in green technology, in climate adaptation and in green jobs is not a luxury choice, it is absolutely crucial for our future. SF has created a holistic plan that shows a different way for Denmark, a better Denmark. It shows that there is room for more and better welfare, more public investment, green conversion and the creation of new jobs in both the private and public sectors without antisocial cuts. It creates a better Denmark, also for top taxpayers. The SF will go a completely different way than the Left. We want to improve our common welfare, where the Left is calling for a deterioration. Not least, we want to invest in education, where the Left has put forward a reduction in funds for both education and the SU. We want to invest in prevention. All children must have a good start in life. The health and safety at work must be lifted. Unemployed people with problems need better help. Prevention pays off and that's the wise way to strengthen Danish economy. We will put the green transition back on track. More renewable energy and more energy savings are needed to achieve climate targets. And we want to create more private jobs through a forward-looking business policy focusing on the green area. Finally, we want a more equal society. We think it is a good thing that we have an education system where it does not do from or into the purse, which family you are born into and where you can get a low benefit, but yet conditions to live off when you are unemployed and where worn out should not pay for massive tax cuts to the best. That is the society we want. In conclusion, however, I would like to commend the government for coming up with a plan that will last ten years in the future. I think we need to discuss which way we should go, especially at a time like this when things are going to change faster than ever before.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906161211	Thank you. Sir. Peter Hvelplund, Enhedslisten, with a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906161216	Thank you. First of all, I would like to acknowledge a good rapporteur's speech, which very rightly points out that instead of saving on climate and environmental efforts and saving on education and welfare, there is a need to invest in it instead. It is also quite true that it is a purely scare-down catalogue, because both the draft budget and the general plan will increase inequality. I would therefore like to ask the SF's rapporteur about the minor regulation that has been made of transfer income, which actually means that people who are on transfer income benefit, cash benefits, early retirement pensions, do not get a share in the prosperity development that is taking place in society as such. Well, the inequality is increasing. That really is some of the things that add significantly to the inequality. It was part of the tax agreement that SF helped to conclude together with the bourgeois and the rest of the government back in 2012. Then I'd like to know where the SF stands today. Will the SF help to abolish the minor regulation so that we do not experience the loss of income for those people who, for one reason or another, are not part of the labour market?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906161328	If I have understood the questioner correctly, the question is whether it should be extended. Do you have to keep on regulating? No, we don't think you should.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906161340	Sir. Peter Dolphin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906161343	Now it is the case that the government's proposal proposes to extend it from 2023 to 2025. But is it the case that the SF will already be involved in making proposals for the abolition of minor regulation now?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906161357	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906161359	The honest answer is that I would like to take part in that, but we cannot, because we are part of an agreement from 2012.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906161405	Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906161412	Thank you for the honest answer. I would like to ask you about another settlement of which SF is part, namely the SU settlement. There were some minor adjustments under the previous government, but the proposal that is now on the table removes DKK 800. the month from the scholarship itself, which means that there are some who are getting less money between their hands and who have to either take out more loans or work alongside the studies at great risk of it hitting socially wrong. I have also heard that the SF is very, very concerned about that. So I will not ask any further questions about that. I know that's definitely not SF's cup of tea, and I think a lot of people outside know that. But now you're actually in the settlement. Should we understand SF's resistance so that you will also use the right of veto that you have to block it from happening here and now, and that, together with Enhedslisten after the next election, you will say: Our voices are going to remove the deterioration if the bourgeois manage to get them voted through?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906161526	Thank you. You don't address directly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906161529	The SF will not in any way lay votes to implement the government's deteriorations as they lie here, or some other deterioration. We think it's been cut enough. We think it is necessary to have the SU that we know today in order to ensure that such people as me, who do not have academic parents, can both afford and feel psychologically safe to take the education they want. This applies to any education. There's a lot of talk about college students. But this is SU. I also heard Mrs Pernille Skipper say that earlier. These are SU degradations for everyone in all educations. All we know is that it matters what a background you have, whether you feel safe and expect your parents to sponsor your education. Families in this country live very differently, and that makes a huge difference. So, of course, we don't want to be part of it. I also hear the government say that they will terminate the settlement and implement these deteriorations after an election. But at least this isn't gonna be with SF's help.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906161639	We have to get back into the rumble after the summer break and remember the Rules of Procedure. You don't address directly, and you say Mr. and Mrs. Here you go. Sorry)
ParlaMint-DK_20160906161652	I'm really glad to hear that. This then means that we are secured • unless the government again chooses to break all conciliation tradition, as they have done with some other settlements • up to 2019, and both the students at the universities and those who read to the educator or anything else are actually guaranteed an income. I'm really glad. When we stand there in 2019, at least we are ready to say: If they succeed in implementing it, they should succeed in convincing the Danish People's Party to somehow add votes to this, if they are allowed to bother some foreigners, then we will be ready to change it after the next elections, if we should have a majority in favour of it. Does SF support Enhedslisten in that question?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906161744	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906161746	I was just about to use a swear word. Mrs. Pernille Skipper thinks we are. Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906161752	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Brian Mikkelsen, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906161813	It actually looks quite good for Denmark. It's been an excellent summer. We had a nice flag day, and on Sunday we beat Armenia in football. And then we also have a bourgeois majority in the Folketing. As we all know, it is a bourgeois majority who must, as a starting point, create a Denmark with more security and more opportunities. It is also as if the political debate is now more about what is going to happen to change. The discussion has begun to be more about the future and concrete political substance, about what is important to all of us: our security, the business environment, so that we can create jobs and welfare in Denmark, the family's private economy, and how we can create security for the homeowners. It is not many years since we were here discussing the Finance Act, where it was about everything that did not happen: payment ring, iPads for schools and 40%. lower prices for public transport. So I am glad that we are now dealing specifically with the things that create value and growth and the financing of our welfare societies in the future. And everything that's gonna happen. That is why I would also like to thank the government for the concrete proposal for both the 2025 plan and the Finance Act and also for the fact that there has been a concrete proposal for how the government wants Denmark to look and how it should be financed. In general, this is a good plan, but on many lines it could be more ambitious and in some areas it lacks some significant adjustments. What's the biggest challenge that's really guessed is housing taxes. With the 2016 Finance Act, the Conservative People's Party managed to freeze the ground debt. Thus we stopped tax increases to the property owners of 750 million. kr. I think it was quite reasonable and it was a good step for the homeowners so that you could sit in peace. You had a good gut feeling, and you could stay with your family in your home without raising housing taxes this year. So it is possible to safeguard the families. We do not want to watch the children's families and pensioners being taxed by an income that you do not have when you live in your house. When you buy your house, it's a place where you want to be with your family, where you might have lived for many years. It's not an investment because you want to make some money. It's because you want a house you can stay in. Therefore, we will not regard the house as a tax item because it is technically convenient. For us, therefore, it is very much about people from all parties who want to make sure that you can stay in the most important thing that you will experience in your life, namely that you get a house, a dwelling, an apartment for yourself and your family. That is why I must admit that I was also very surprised that yesterday the SF played out that housing taxes should rise by 5%. I think we should abolish housing taxes altogether. I also think there are many folk pensioners and many voters at the SF, for example, who think whether it is reasonable to be taxed by one's house or apartment, because the SF wants the tax on their house or apartment to be set up? Everyone who lives in the house or apartment already pays the taxes, so you have to pay the increases in property taxes every year by taxing money. This is one of the main adjustments to the government's proposals that we need to address. We need to create some peace and security in the belly of sir. and Mrs. Denmark. More than 2 million people live in their own homes should be able to stay. You have to be able to be with your family in the garden without constantly having to wonder if you can stay 1 or 2 more years without being taxed on fire or being thrown out of your house or apartment. We also need to tackle Denmark better as a competitive country. Today Danish economy is in tug gear. We have very low growth compared to surrounding countries. Although the future can look good on a sunny day like today, our lug gear position means that we have fewer opportunities to compete, fewer opportunities to be productive and fewer opportunities to create jobs in Denmark. There we therefore need some more opportunities in the Danish economy. We lose to Norway, to Sweden, to the UK and many other countries we usually compare with. So tough and simple is the verdict of the World Economic Forum's latest list of global competitiveness. We therefore need to change this with reforms and political agreements, so that we become more competitive, so that we create more jobs in Denmark, which can also finance the fantastic society in which we live. A number of fiscal and business policy measures require targeted tax reductions for different sectors of the economy and also greater focus on entrepreneurs. We will introduce a four-year rule stop for entrepreneurs, so that at least the amount of bureaucracy does not increase, that you are allowed to be alone as an entrepreneur, without having to be burdened by new taxes and new taxes and new rules, so that you can develop your product and grow big. We will also continue to phase out corporate tax, which, since the mid-1990s, has fallen by more than 10 percentage points from the 34 per cent it was at then. It is also worth bearing in mind that at the time, too, various politicians warned against watering down welfare if tax relief was made for companies. What is the situation today? We have never spent as much money on the public sector as we have today, and we have significantly facilitated corporate tax. Then, of course, the top tax must be abolished. I am pleased with the tax concessions we have made in the past. I myself took part in the previous government, the VK government, in facilitating the top tax, i.e. marginal tax, by 7.5 percentage points. It gave more productivity, it gave more production in Danish society. And now the time has come for more, because the top tax kills growth. This means fewer jobs and less prosperity. In fact, it kills more wealth than we get into the treasury, so we pay to destroy our own economy. It therefore seems somewhat incomprehensible that we should impose that arrangement on ourselves. I also think that today's debate so far has shown that it is very much too many parties about how the money should be distributed and what things you do not want to reform and what things you think are sacred and will not touch, although it seems unlikely that we can just continue like this in that trump hole without anything happening. Unfortunately, I think it is almost symptomatic of many of the debates we have about the future in Denmark. You dare not touch anything you dare not do anything. In this way, you shut yourself down and pursue ostrich politics, and then we become poorer. Then we lose jobs and welfare. Everyone wants to share in distributing gifts, but very few will be involved in financing them. It must be the aim of every party to help create growth that can help finance a better society. It is growth that makes the young people have some good jobs to look forward to. It is growth that ensures that it is attractive to invest in Denmark, and this means that jobs stay in Denmark. It may seem very trivial when I stand here on the speaking chair of the Folketing and say so, but it is trivial because it is true. The lack of growth really needs to be addressed. But it is not easy to get through with that message, we can also hear in today's debate. I understand that there are some areas in the political spectrum that are not interested in, for example. to give the business community better conditions, because then you are afraid that you will take money away from welfare and money away from people who need help. But what are the facts? If we give industry better conditions by reducing taxes and taxes, then jobs will be created in Denmark. Then you come from transfer to work, while moving the money away from giving money to people, to making your own money. So this is a win-win situation. Growth means that we have more money for a better health sector, for a better education system. Growth means that we can afford better care for our older fellow citizens. Growth is a relieved tax at work, so as a family you have the opportunity to dispose of yourself. Growth is security. After all, growth is also that we can finance a larger police force and a defence. And it is not cold at all, it is not cynical when we stand here talking about growth and when we talk about the need to give business better conditions. In the context of the Finance Act, we would also like to give priority to more security and more opportunities. The trust we enjoy in each other in Denmark helps make us the world's best country. We can trust each other because we are rounded up by the same culture because we have experienced that others show confidence in us. We have to hold on to that. It is therefore also important that we strike down all the tendencies of parallel societies that do not respect Danish law and order. I am thinking here of stone throws against the police in the ghettos, and I am thinking of what is worse, radicalisation of young people. This kind of thing isn't about money, it's about value slips. That is why these matters must not be a question of money either, because those areas must, of course, be given priority. That is why we are also proposing more money for the police and the defence and intelligence services in connection with the forthcoming Finance Act. There are plenty of things to do in the coming months. We also have proposals for facilitating capital tax taxation, so that we get more investment in Danish companies and a whole range of other proposals. We are also prepared to see that these are tough negotiations that await us. On the other hand, we also know that if we can agree cross-cutting, there are additional good results in sight that can finance and ensure that we still have a great society in Denmark in the years ahead. We must secure all Danes living in their own homes by abolishing housing taxes. We also need to ensure a safer Denmark where Danish law and law apply throughout the country. And then we have to ensure more opportunities in Danish business through tax cuts and thus create more jobs for the Danes. I hope that in the autumn we will see the cooperative popular government from its very best side, because it is the results that count. We are ready to achieve the great results together with others.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906162837	Thank you. Then there are a number of questioners, and the first is Mr. Erik Christensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906162844	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteur. After all, the government's 2025 plan does not provide funds to continue the housing tax stop after 2020, and the Conservative leader, Søren Pape Poulsen, made it quite clear on 18 June of this year in an interview to Berlingske that the issue of housing tax is the absolute top priority of the Conservatives, so I would like to ask the rapporteur: does this mean that it is an ultimate demand from the Conservatives that no one should pay more in housing tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906162916	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906162918	Yes, it is crucial for the Conservative People's Party that you are better off than you are today. It is crucial that we ensure that the landowners do not become the cashier from which the government can simply withdraw a lot of lottery tickets and money, and it is, of course, an easy source of income for the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury to keep pulling money out of the landowners. kr. next year, which you will pull out of the pockets of the homeowners... but we will not be part of that. For it is a double taxation of people living in their own homes who need the calm and security to ensure that it is not considered an instrument to just pull money out of an ordinary family who just want to live in that house with the children, or by the pensioner couple who have lived in Brønshøj for 25 years and experience that they cannot stay in Brønshøj because housing taxes are allowed to rise year after year. So, yes, housing taxes must be lowered so that you feel better than you do today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906163015	Sir. Erik Christensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906163021	I am listening that it is an ultimate demand from the Conservatives to agree to an agreement that no homeowners will pay more in housing tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906163032	Here you go, sir. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906163034	In other words, we are now a party that does not make the ultimate demands, because the way in which the people's rule is to function is to negotiate with each other and agree with each other, and in this way we will achieve best results. But that is a requirement for us to vote yes 2025 plan. Then the government will have to get a majority from elsewhere if you want to. But that is a demand from us for us to vote in favour of the 2025 plan. It is vital for us that the landowners get better. Otherwise, we will not vote in favour of the 2025 plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906163102	Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906163104	Thank you. As the debate has shown, with the overall plan, the Left is proposing to increase the tax on, among other things. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and preparations. Now I have heard the rapporteur talk a lot about the fact that the increase in housing taxes can push pensioners out of their homes and other things, and we share, as the rapporteur well knows, the concern and fully agree that we have to look at these current taxes. If they increase faster than the income they can very easily do for pensioners, then you have to do something about it. So we are in complete agreement on that. You have to find a solution to that. However, I simply do not understand why the Conservative People's Party cannot, in the same way, totally reject raising the tax for the pensioners, as the Prime Minister proposes, because for the individual folk pensionist or early retirementist, it is a matter of whether it is the housing tax that increases or whether it is the green base deduction that is being removed. That's the same loss you get.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906163216	Sir. Brian Mikkelsen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906163219	Now the government has to explain their own plan. From the Conservative People's Party's point of view, we are not putting forward any tax increases for anyone. However, we would like to add up, and this is part of our plan, that it is better to work, especially at the bottom, and that is why we are putting up a marked difference at the bottom, in the sense that we will give relief to people who are in work by means of a greater reduction in employment. But it does not have to affect others who are not in employment. We will therefore increase the difference between being in work and not being in work by providing improvements to those who are in work. It doesn't have to take out those who aren't at work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906163255	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906163306	Well, I think that is a good thing, because some time ago it was the Conservative People's Party itself proposing to abolish the green cheque, but it is a good thing if you say that you do not want to do that. That is a good thing for the country's old-age pensioners. But that is not an important requirement, as far as I can understand. I really want to ask you something else. There is one thing with the Conservative People's Party that puzzles me, because you talk almost only about taxes, and I really thought that conservative heart blood was about such a thing as family conditions, and therefore to be very brief: how can you help to reduce the conditions for children's families with the lower child benefit that lies in this plan, and will you do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906163345	You still don't address each other directly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906163348	In relation to the first part of the question: yes, we will abolish the green check because time has run out of the green check. It was a compensation for some taxes that no longer exist. So that's why there's no need for the green check. With regard to the conditions of families, I would say: yes, but we are fully in line with the government in terms of setting a limit on the amount of child support available in relation to the number of children. I mean, I do not see it as a deterioration in the conditions of families with children that we say that there must be a limit to how much money you can get in children's money. So there is a limit to what is to be financed. It is, of course, financed by all Danes, so it is only fair that priority should be given, and we think this is a quite sensible way of giving priority to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906163428	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906163433	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. I was very pleased when I read a few weeks ago that the Conservatives would like to have lower taxes on environmentally friendly company cars, and I want to know if this is something that the Conservatives are going to bring to the financial law negotiations with the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906163448	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906163450	Yes, it certainly is. One of the reasons why we were not in the agreement made by the government with the Social Democrats and DF and Radicals this spring on registration fees for electric cars was that we thought they were too expensive. So we would very much like to look at how electric cars become cheaper, so that there will be a sensible alternative to either diesel or petrol-powered cars. The proposal we made about company cars is a first step on the road. But we still want to look away at the registration fee so that it will also be cheaper to have electric cars, because we are not part of the agreement that the government has made in that area.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906163525	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906163527	Well, thank you. I think that sounds really exciting. So to stay on the green track, the Conservatives are the green party in the blue block, if you can put it that way, how do the Conservatives feel about seeing a 2025 plan here that can cast doubt on whether we can achieve our 2040 target at all? Are the Conservatives going to press the government to make further climate- and environmental-friendly policies in the 2025 plan?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906163557	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906163559	As I mentioned before, we think that the government's plan is really very good. We are very positive about the plan, but there are areas where adjustments are needed. I mentioned some areas in the majority where strong adjustments were needed. The landowners were one of the areas, but the climate is another area. Because there are far too few ambitions in the area of climate change. After all, we still need a discussion about the PRS funding and the coastal mills. We also lack discussions on the 2040 target. These are clearly some of the things that we bring to the table with the Minister for Finance. But the starting point is that we like the plan. Economically, it is well connected and secures the welfare state in the future. But then we will have to fight for improvements in the green area, for homeowners and for business.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906163643	Thank you. Sir. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906163648	Following on from the questions that have been asked, I would like to ask a few questions about this tax freeze. Because there's been such a spring mood in here. After all, both the Danish People's Party and the Left and LA recognise that the tax freeze we have had for housing up to now does not work. We in Radicals have had that view for a long time. The reason has exploded. The landowners don't feel much about that tax freeze. So it is spreading a good mood that we must have scrapped it. Then we must have a proper housing tax, which is to be reckoned with and which cannot just run out of control, but which, on the other hand, has a different fairness and fairness in it, for example. so that it can follow wage developments from a given level, as one can then discuss what should be. Are you Conservatives prepared to contribute to the spring mood and say that what we have now, at least, does not work, and let us now find a fair housing tax that does not lock itself in some strange system that some Prime Minister came up with 15 years ago, but which is based on the reality that the homeowners are experiencing today and that must have a fairness and economic sustainability in it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906163753	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906163755	Yes, we are very prepared to do so, because there has been some strange misunderstood mood and analysis among so-called independent economists of the fact that there has been a real housing tax freeze. There hasn't been. If you look at what the housing taxes have brought, then the only ones who have really been happy are the Ministry of Finance. For in 2001, when we carried out the so-called housing tax stop, the total housing tax added 24 billion. kr. to Danish society. This year, they pay 43 billion. kr. and by 2020 51 billion. kr. So we are very, very aware that we have a responsibility to ensure that the Danish families can stay in their homes and that it is not just such a tax machine that you can pull money out of the families with. That is why we are looking creatively at all proposals for what can be done to safeguard families. We have come up with a concrete proposal from the Conservatives that all housing taxes should be abolished without exception, so that you can stay in your home, and then we make a profit tax when you leave the housing market, so that you do not lose money until you leave the housing market. Then you can sit in peace and security when you're in the housing market.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906163900	Thank you. Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906163902	That's interesting. I think that most economists think that introducing the model that Mr. Brian Mikkelsen made it. But it could be that you could make a combination. We're kind of going into this with an open mind, too. But is Mr. Brian Mikkelsen also agrees that this means a final farewell to the tax freeze we have had so far in the residential area? One of the goals must then be to make a housing tax, which also makes it a little more equal, depending on whether you have bought owner's residence or house; make it a little more equal, depending on whether you are in town or on land. In other words, there are also some shortcomings in some paying both land and property value tax, while others paying only property value tax. We must have a system that is fair for everyone and that is reliable, but also does not erode housing taxes in the long term.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906163952	Thank you. Sir. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906163954	Our starting point is that you have to pay less in housing tax in the years ahead, because we think it is a wrong and unfair source of funding. There we feel that as politicians we have a responsibility to ensure justice and fairness for families. Of course, all we can do to improve the conditions of the homeowners will fight for, because the half-tax freeze that applies to the homes today is not worth much when we can see that since 2001 it has exploded from 24 billion. kr. in revenue at 43 billion. kr., and just for the next four years alone it will increase by 8 billion. kr. further. So it is the landowners who are going to pay it. We do not think that is fair. So if we can create a new construction that facilitates the conditions of the property owners, we are willing to look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906164036	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Lea Wermelin, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906164041	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. Now the rapporteur started his speech by talking a lot about housing taxes, and my party colleague also asked a little about the tax freeze in relation to housing. But I do not think we got much wiser, because first the rapporteur said that what was on the table now would not be involved, and then the rapporteur said that it was at least crucial to look at the matter of housing taxes. So I just want to get a little smarter about what Conservatives really want. Your party chairman said in an interview on 1 September 2016: Will the rapporteur not explain what that means? How many more funds will Conservatives set aside for the homeowners if you are to be able to be part of an agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906164133	Here you go, sir. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906164136	Yes, we will abolish all housing taxes. We do not think it is fair that you as a family should sit and have anxiety and insecurity in your stomach, because you cannot pay the rising property taxes because the land is increasing year after year. Normal families find themselves having to pay 25,000 - 30,000 kroner. net just in the area municipalities to Copenhagen, and that is not fair. So we want to abolish all housing taxes, and then we propose that a profit tax be introduced when you leave the housing market. It gives peace and security to all families, and then you have to let go of your pennies when you leave the real estate market.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906164212	Thank you. Mrs. Lea Wermelin.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906164217	Unless Conservatives expect it to be the agreement with which it is going to be, that is to say, that there are no housing taxes, then you have to have expectations with which you enter into such negotiations, and that is what we are trying to be a tiny bit smarter. Because when your party chairman says that the landowners should be better placed, what does that mean? Does this mean that if you don't get to the point where there are no housing taxes, no homeowners are allowed to increase in taxes, or what does that mean? Can the rapporteur not be a little more precise?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906164245	It was a good thing that the rapporteur was said at the end, but there is no need for direct indictment. I know it's difficult here after the summer break, but all we have to do is get used to the fact that there are Rules of Procedure that we have to abide by in here. Here you go, sir. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906164258	It is crystal clear from Conservatives that the property owners must be better placed than they are today. It is, of course, like our negotiating paper to the government. We have also said that we are not voting in favour of any overall 2025 plan, because we believe that things are connected, that money cannot just be raised somewhere and then spent somewhere else. And here are the landowners who are milking cow for the state's coffers. Therefore, the landowners must be better placed in the future than they are today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906164329	Thank you. Sir. Kaare Dybvad, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906164333	Thank you very much. I noticed that the rapporteur's speech, and indeed the debate on it here, have placed a great deal of emphasis on housing taxes. The rapporteur's party chairman was even out in the Region of Zealand to talk to homeowners and held a press conference in front of homeowners who paid 35,000 DKK. in housing tax. It's a little expensive for that area, but that's not what I'm gonna ask. But can the rapporteur perhaps come a little closer to what the Conservatives really think when they say that the housing owners should be better placed?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906164410	Here you go, sir. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906164412	First of all, I just want to tell you what people generally pay. In the past, at least when I was a child, there was something called OBS broadcasts on Danmarks Radio, on television, and this is kind of a note from up here. If you're looking at what's going on, for example. is paid in the municipality of Ballerup, so the property owners pay 28,691 DKK. On average, 28,691 net kroner is on average just due to reason. In Rødovre Municipality you pay 25,577 DKK. In Gladsaxe you pay DKK 24,944. And they all increase by between $1,300 and $1,500. the first year. Then they rise again on top of it, and then they rise again on top of it, and then they rise again on top of it. This is how the system has been set up. And this means that the families in Ballerup, Rødovre and Gladsaxe sit with unrest and have a little stomachache and think: Can we really afford to stay here, because it increases year after year? So when we say from the conservative side that you have to be better placed, that means that we will stop that increase. Then we'll make sure you can stay in your apartment. This is our starting point for the negotiations, and it is also the criterion of whether we are voting in favour of a 2025 plan, which, as I said, on many lines we think is good. So that's how it works.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906164536	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906164538	So, if I understand the rapporteur correctly, this means quite specifically when the Conservatives say that the landowners should be better placed, that no homeowners in Rødovre or Ballerup or any of the other 96 municipalities in the country should pay a penny more in housing tax, as the rapporteur said.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906164559	We are going to the negotiations with the stated aim of abolishing all housing taxes, and we are financing that by tax when you leave the housing market. If we go further in the negotiations, and if the government and the other parties do not want to take part in the otherwise very excellent proposal, which will be the right proposal for Denmark, then our starting point and also our final conclusion will be that the landowners should be better off than they are today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906164625	Thank you. Is there anyone else interested in a dinner break? I think there is an interest in there being a dinner break, even though it does not seem that many people have asked for a second round. But it might well be that there were a number of comments to the Minister of Finance, so at 3 p.m. 5:30 p.m. will be a dinner break. Then it's mr. Troels Ravn, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906164652	Thank you. We need a round of housing tax because it is generally interesting that the government has not allocated money to the housing tax stop after 2020. I heard in the rapporteur's speech that there was talk of security, trust, that we should be able to trust each other. It must be the case that the citizens have a right to know exactly what the Conservatives are doing. I guess everything else creates the very opposite of security, namely insecurity. Then the rapporteur will not explain whether the Conservative People's Party can see itself in a 2025 agreement where the housing tax is not DKK.?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906164750	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906164752	We're only with a deal where the landowners are better off than they are today. The landlords are being ripped off in treasure today. The cash cow, as it has become for different governments, we will have stopped so that as a family today you can be allowed to live in your house or apartment without having to risk having to move because housing taxes are increasing year after year. This is like our entry into the negotiations, and it is absolutely crystal clear from the 2025 plan, because it is, after all, an overall plan for the finances of the empire and the family economy. That is why we are linking it together in the sense that we will only vote in favour of a 2025 plan if the landowners feel better in the future than they do today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906164845	Thank you. Sir. Troels Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906164848	Troels Ravn. Excuse me. Excuse me.). It's okay. But it is precisely here that we have to ask the Conservative People's Party to tell us exactly what it is like for the Conservatives to define that the landowners should be better placed. It must surely be the case that when we talk about housing taxes... the rapporteur himself spoke about security, trust, and that we must be able to trust each other... the citizens, the voters, must know exactly where it is that the Conservative People's Party places itself in relation to housing tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906164928	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906164930	I do not think it is quite permissible to ask questions the other way, but I also think I miss what the Socialists really want with housing taxes. But okay, I guess we're the only party that has said quite clearly that we want to give priority to the housing owners getting better conditions in the years ahead, because the security it provides for families also provides security for the economy, so things are connected. We are going to enter into those negotiations and we will resolve the problem. We see the government as emerging and pragmatic, and the other parties will probably be, because we have to find each other. These are good parties that we talk to and negotiate with, so we will find a solution that will improve the situation for homeowners. This is our criterion for participating in those negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906165010	But it is certainly permissible to correct the President when a wrong name is said. Excuse me, sir. Troels Ravn, it won't happen again. Sir. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906165019	Thank you. Now it is the case that the Conservatives like to refer to themselves as the green party in the blue block. That is why I was waiting with anticipation to see that there would now be a gangbull against this totally coal-black financial bill and 2025 plan from the government. But I was a little disappointed there, because I do not think it filled so much in the rapporteur's speech. In this context, I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur agrees with the political rapporteur of the Conservatives, who said in P1 here on 31 August following the Prime Minister's presentation of the plan: I was left thinking about when he then mentions, we have a special responsibility for climate and environment and for the world we leave behind for the next generations. After all, it is not only housing taxes that can increase, so can water levels. Given that the rapporteur is so concerned about the landowners, perhaps the rapporteur should also worry a little about the fact that the landowners should also have a country to build housing in. If we don't address this climate challenge, we're going to have some serious difficulties. That is why I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether it is the case that the rapporteur can guarantee that the Conservative People's Party will not enter into an agreement unless the climate challenges are addressed, in other words that it does not accept, for example, that. The plan for the coastal windmills is being closed. Can the Conservatives guarantee it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906165149	Sir. Brian Mikkelsen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906165152	Although there are a great many good tactics in the government's proposals, there are some areas in the climate and the environment that we want to make our way into. We think it is important that a 2025 plan also includes the 2040 objective. After all, we had a green supplementary package, also with the government, earlier this year, which we think is quite reasonable and which is moving in the right direction, so we think that we are going along the road we would like to go along. But then it is our job to help ensure that there is a green profile and keep the government on the narrow track of virtue when we talk about climate and environmental policy, and we will of course do so when we negotiate 2025 plan and finance law with the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906165233	Thank you. Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906165235	[Sound Outlook]... intent. But now the rapporteur was very clear in the past about the situation of homeowners, where he said that it was absolutely crystal clear that there was no deterioration for homeowners. Can the rapporteur be just as crystal clear in relation to the climate and say that there will be no deterioration in relation to climate action, that we can guarantee that there will be no cuts in relation to coastal wind turbines?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906165259	Here you go, sir. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906165301	I think we should be very careful about issuing guarantees in politics, because guarantees and ultimate requirements have to result in a reaction from others to making/do/be as the opposite. So if you want to achieve results, you have to achieve results at the negotiating table. At any rate, I can give the assurance here that the efforts we have to ensure that climate and environmental policy are also prioritised in the 2025 plan and the Finance Act, we will fight for, also in the context of the negotiations we have in the Ministry of Finance and with others in the government. Because it is important, and we owe it to future generations too, that we take that fight for that priority now.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906165338	Thank you. Then it's mr. Roger Matthisen, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906165344	Thank you. I noticed that the rapporteur was talking about more money for the police in the context of radicalisation. Then I would like to know whether the rapporteur believes that more police alone will contain radicalisation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906165357	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906165359	No, it is an entirely palette of various initiatives, both in the social field, education and housing areas. The housing associations also play a strong role in this. But there is no doubt that we have a police force which has been badly neglected. And the deal that was made five years ago was hard on the police. The last agreement made for the police was quite reasonable. But we went to the negotiations with the wish that more policemen would come along as well as helping to combat radicalisation and the terrorist threat we have against Danish society and, at the very least, to create something more secure in Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906165437	Sir. Roger Matthisen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906165440	Thank you. And what is the rapporteur's position on the increasing radicalisation of the right-wing nationalist environments in our society?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906165453	Here you go, sir. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906165456	If it's a threat to Danish society, I'm always color blind. Well, it doesn't matter whether it's a right-wing threat or a left-wing threat. If there is a threat to Danish democracy and society, you have to fight it. The police don't have to wear any colored glasses. You have to fight that. If there is a threat to our democracy, the police must use the necessary resources to sniff out what is happening and prevent any attacks on our democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906165525	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Karin Gaardsted, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906165529	Thank you. Let's get back to the landlords. We have gradually understood that the most important thing for the Conservative People's Party is that the landowners are better placed. What consequences will it have if the government does not meet the Conservatives' demand that the landowners should be better placed than there is any prospect of today?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906165552	Sir. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906165554	It would have the consequence for the landowners that many of them could not afford to stay. If we do not secure the homeowners of Conservatives, the retired couple in Brønshøj may not be able to stay in their house. Then the young family in Ballerup will not be able to stay in their house. It's just like the consequence. So this is the rescue operation we're doing for the families, so you can stay in the place you've chosen to live with your family.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906165624	Mrs. Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906165626	I was now thinking more about the consequences that would have for the government. The rapporteur may have a comment to make on this. In addition, I would also like to hear: where is the Conservatives' limit for improvements for homeowners? In other words, what will the Conservatives settle for?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906165646	Here you go, sir. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906165648	What will be the consequences? Well, we're not gonna overthrow a bourgeois government. Why would we do that? After all, the alternative will be worse for Denmark, won't it? However, the consequence will be that we will not vote in favour of the 2025 plan. We will vote in favour of the 2025 plan if we can agree on the content of the 2025 plan. We have great ambitions there, for example. the business area. Greater ambition is needed in terms of providing better production conditions in Denmark and lower capital taxes. So if we can agree on a 2025 plan and we can agree on better conditions for homeowners, we will vote for the 2025 plan, and hopefully there will be other parties who will vote for it, and then it will be adopted. Otherwise, we will not vote in favour of the 2025 plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906165731	Thank you. Then it's mr. Malte Larsen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906165735	Thank you for the floor. I think it sounds a bit like the rapporteur has lost faith in the fact that the housing tax stop can continue. In any case, it seems as if the rapporteur is skilfully avoiding responding to what needs to be done in concrete terms in order to improve the living conditions of the landowners. I'd like to get an explanation for those two things.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906165801	Here you go, sir. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906165803	I would very much like to do that to my good colleague. We are going to the negotiations with the stated aim of abolishing all housing taxes. It may sound very revolutionary, but that is the fact, for example. has in Sweden. There you live as a homeowner in the happy fact that you are not torn in tax every year because of. increasing land debt and increasing property value tax. We then want you to pay when you leave the housing market, and that is like our entry into the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906165841	Thank you. Sir. Malte Larsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906165843	Thank you for that answer. May I then follow up with a question: how much money will the Conservative People's Party require that specific provision be made to ensure security of the housing tax scheme before you can see yourself in an agreement at this time?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906165901	Sir. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906165903	After all, no amount can be set, because we do not believe that property taxes should be paid. So in the model that we are proposing for the negotiations, property taxes are not paid, neither land tax, which increases year after year, nor property value tax, which is frozen at 2002 levels. You're not gonna pay for that. But you pay when you leave the real estate market, so you cannot say that we are going to set aside a fixed amount. Because there will be a liquidity challenge during that period until you get that money home. But, of course, we can find a solution to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906165936	Thank you. Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906165940	Thank you. There is one issue that has not been discussed much. After all, we are discussing a lot about how the Danes feel and how the Danes should now be able to afford yours and that. And it has been promised by certain politicians that we should not take the money from the nursery. I mean, now it's being stolen, not from the nursery, but from the world's poorest. And I would like to hear what the rapporteur for the Conservatives thinks about the fact that the percentage of development aid continues to be severed, that is to say it is down to 0.7%, but it is also being reorganised completely wildly in relation to how much we spend on strategic development aid for the world's poorest. Is it conservative policy to drive in the direction of development aid at the moment?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906170026	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906170028	We do not believe that development aid should be 0.7%, as the government is proposing, and we have taken that battle with the government in the past. However, I note that, fortunately, as a result of fewer refugee expenditure and higher GDP, more money is going to come to the world's poorest, including in the government's proposal, when it is measured in dollars and cents. So that is why we are in the happy situation that at least more money will come out to the world's poorest in 2017 than in 2016, and we are positive about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906170101	Sir. Christian Juhl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906170104	Now the rapporteur says the poorest in the world. But I have heard from the government that they are not going to spend the money saved on refugees on the world's poorest. And if you look at the strategy paper that has been prepared and that is to be seen in the context of the 2025 plan, you can see that more needs to be invested in the neighbourhoods and more on self-interest than on helping the people who live south of the equator.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906170130	Here you go, sir. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906170133	We believe that greater efforts are needed in the neighbourhood, and we would also like to contribute to spending more money on this. It is for the benefit of the neighbourhoods and of the whole world that greater efforts are being made to make it possible for one to take care of oneself. However, in the Conservative People's Party, our focus is that development aid is an aid to the world's poorest. That is where you can make an effort and where you can make a difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906170158	Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906170206	Sir. Brian Mikkelsen has talked a lot about having a stomach ache when housing taxes rise, and it makes me wonder if there are any taxes that cause you to get more pain in your stomach than other taxes. What I am thinking of, of course, is that when the children's cheque gets impaired, which also means a smaller income tax, a income tax that families have expected to receive, does it not also cause stomach pain? Or, if the green bottom is taken away from what is also called the green check, then you do not get a stomachache when you see your income base being removed, such as the Conservative People's Party. Is that what it wants? If you care so much about ensuring that ordinary people have a basis for security about their financial situation, why are there some taxes that cause stomach pain while others do not?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906170303	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906170306	Firstly, all public services are not simply locked in granite. I hope the Enhedslisten doesn't think so. One must constantly look at how to spend the money, and we can always discuss how big the public sector should be, but in view of the challenges we face as a society and we sincerely believe that we should do something more for those who have the hardest to do in Denmark. I think, for example. not that it does matter that there is a greater difference between being in work and not being in work. It is for the benefit of all of us that there is a greater difference. The green check that I mentioned to Mr. Rune Lund's colleague, Mr. Pelle Dragsted, was a compensation for some charges that have now been removed. If we take the children's check, I stand by the fact that the Conservative People's Party also suggested before the summer break that we should make an almost equivalent model of the model that the government has set up, because we have to look at how best to use public services. I think we should help those who really need help in this society, but it is not helping those who really need help just to tell people who have many children that they keep getting child support for all the children. It is therefore a question of sending out signals that we need to give priority to the resources we have in the public sector. Now this isn't about a lot of money, it is for the individual family, but not in the big social picture. We must look at what is right and reasonable to give money to, and I do not think it is right and proper if you are given money for example. 11 children. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906170432	Thank you. Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906170437	If we start with the green bottom deduction, I would say that it is not the case that all the green taxes have been removed, they are not. There are still plenty of green taxes, and therefore a green bottom allowance still makes sense, so that we can both have green taxes that create a change in behaviour towards less pollution, while ensuring that it has a red profile or a social profile that makes those who have the least in this country get a compensation. So what the rapporteur says is not right. Then I'll have to get back to something. So I think it's strange that just one treasure causes some people to get incredibly sore in their stomachs while others don't. I have the view with regard to the children's check that I think it is important that families with children are helped by society because we want children to be born in this society. That's why I think it's good to have a child's check, and that's why I think it should be there. In relation to housing taxes, all economists are in fact agreed on e.g. When we talk about the guilt that the basic debt is perhaps the most sensible tax that exists, because if you want to lower it as the Conservative People's Party wants, it will immediately be capitalised in higher housing prices, and you will not get any effect out of what you might really want. So it's really about which taxes are reasonable and which are not reasonable, but I just can't understand why the Conservative People's Party feels that some taxes hurt you, but not by others, when, for example, we do. It can be seen in concrete terms that specific families are affected.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906170601	Thank you. Sir. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906170603	Now the children's check is not a tax, it is a compensation we give to some families. Here they get some money while the landowners pay some money. It is like that which is quite the fundamental difference. We have a very generous welfare society that we stand by in the Conservative People's Party, but if that welfare society is to survive in the future, you have to look at who it is we are helping, and it is not natural that, because you have 11 children, you have to have children's checks for 11 children when you are in big financial problems. But if that family has major economic problems, we must help them, and fortunately we have a social system designed to do so. However, we do not believe that families with many children should automatically be given a great deal of child support.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906170648	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Brian Mikkelsen. Then there's no more questioners. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906170713	The Arctic is hot, and it is not only because the ice melts, but it is also because we see the consequences of climate change so clearly in Greenland. There is focus and attention in these years on the Arctic and on Greenland, and the Taksøe report and the government's own Arctic analysis are clear signs of this. Since its entry into June 2015, most of the government's ministers have visited Greenland. The Parliament's Greenland Committee has just visited Greenland, and this is followed up over the next few weeks by visits by the Legal Affairs Committee and the Defence Committee, as have other committees shown interest in visiting Greenland. It is positive that there is such a clear interest in Greenland across the parties of the Folketing. Inuit Ataqatigiit welcomes the fact that the North Atlantic members are given the opportunity to participate in the financial law negotiations, where we as a party, on an equal footing with all other parties in the Folketing, can represent ourselves. So I would like to commend the government for increased involvement in this area. I hope that all members of the Things will have that opportunity. For Inuit Ataqatigiit, the work of the Danish Parliament deals primarily with the 32 areas Denmark is responsible for on behalf of Greenland. It is about Greenlanders in Denmark, and it is about a large number of areas that are being worked out. It is important that the focus continues to be on developing and updating key areas of responsibility before they are to be taken back to Greenland in the long term. I guess we get the greatest political influence by sitting at the table. It is a question of political influence, and therefore it is crucial that the knowledge and the voices that we represent in the Kingdom community are also consulted in the various conciliation negotiations and in future wage-pool negotiations. The efforts for Greenlanders in Denmark must be maintained and strengthened, and it is positive that the main priorities of the draft budget highlight the provision of funds for the inclusion of new Greenlanders also in the years 2018 and 2019. The strategy for vulnerable Greenlanders expires this year, and the strategy, which brings together all the resources around the individual citizen, has shown very good results, and therefore the good work on the strategy must not stop now. It is in everyone's interest to continue this work. Despite the fact that the vast majority of Greenlanders in Denmark are well-functioning, various studies also show an over-representation of Greenlanders in social statistics. Only half of the Greenlanders in Denmark live in cities covered by the strategy for socially vulnerable Greenlanders. The strategy should be maintained and extended to several cities, and the government should enter into dialogue with the municipalities on a priority effort towards socially vulnerable Greenlanders in Denmark. It is obvious that this is being done as part of the government's agreement with KL, because if we do not negotiate, it will cost us more expensive in the end. In the draft budget, priority is given to professional support for the ongoing efforts towards vulnerable children and young people in Greenland. Greenland has taken the area home, and we are responsible for it today, and that is the way it should be in the future. In recent years, there has been a clearer recognition that Greenland needs to do more, and it is pleasing to work together to find solutions for the benefit of children and young people in Greenland. By supporting enhanced supervision at the placement sites, it should be borne in mind that barely 80 per cent. of the children placed in foster homes, therefore the aim must also be to strengthen the foster families, who daily carry out a huge social task. Inuit Ataqatigiit took the initiative earlier this year for a hearing on Greenlanders in Denmark here at Christiansborg, and the IA launched a political initiative on the same subject. From IA we want to ensure increased social preventive action, so that more Greenlanders in Denmark become an active part of society, just as we believe that we need to break down the prejudices that there are against the many Greenlanders in Denmark. This is done by ensuring a greater knowledge of each other in the Kingdom Community, and this is done by ensuring an increased dialogue with Greenlanders in Denmark. Education remains the key to Greenland's future. Greenlandic students in Denmark are already severely affected by the progress reform, and for many young Greenlandic students you travel 4,000 km away to go to school. For some, there are really great linguistic and cultural challenges, and with the financial bill there is further tightening of the student's conditions, where students will need to borrow parts of their SU in the future. With the progress reform and the tightening of the training support provided for in the draft budget, there is a concern that more Greenlandic students are falling away. The proposal envisages an employment allowance for students which can facilitate the repayment of the SU loan, but this applies only in Denmark. This creates a distortion and creates an economic incentive for Greenland graduates to stay in Denmark. Today, the majority of Greenlandic students who complete an education in Denmark return to Greenland after completing their education, and we must continue to ensure that they are also forward-looking. Work should be done with Greenland to find a solution to reduce the dropout due to the progress reform and the tightening of students' financial conditions. Greenland is so in need of native trained labour. The government's long-awaited Arctic analysis came out in June, and it is positive that the defence recognises the need to strengthen defence tasks in the Arctic and in Greenland with particular focus on solving civilian tasks. It is positive that the defence envisages an increased involvement of Greenlanders in the form of a voluntary response, for which Inuit Ataqatigiit has fought for many years, and for the establishment of a basic military education in Greenland. The Taksøe-Jensen report from spring 2016 points to a need for increased priority for the Arctic and Greenland in defence and in relation to foreign policy action, which the government has also recognised in the past. Foreign policy takes place in close cooperation with Greenland's Self-Government, but also depends on a priority in the Danish Finance Act. The government is proposing to add 35 million to the External Action Service. kr. next year rising to 70 million. kr. in 2018. From Inuit Ataqatigiit will strongly urge the government to strengthen the Arctic agenda and Arctic diplomacy in the coming years. The extra money for a common Arctic diplomacy will fall in a very dry place, because we are so dependent on priority being given to foreign policy in relation to Greenland. Today, Faroese students have the opportunity to take their graduation allowance to the Faroe Islands for up to 3 months after the end of their education. It promotes opportunities for employment in its home country, and opportunities should also be offered to Greenland graduates. It is inappropriate for there to be border barriers in the Commonwealth, which even applies only to one in three parties in the Commonwealth. The other barriers that exist in the national community, the so-called border barriers, are identified and described in a so-called two do-list by the government, and efforts should be made to remove the barriers that exist as they are a daily nuisance to the citizens of the national community. A modern kingdom community requires continuous development, and on the Greenland Committee's journey to Greenland here recently we spoke among other things. Greenland police and the Greenland police point out that their communication equipment is obsolete and needs to be replaced within a few years. Danish police are running with modern radio communication equipment that raises communication opportunities and thus the safety of our police officers. A modern communication equipment, which the Danish police have, will cost 40 million. kr. to be implemented in Greenland, but it is necessary in order to be able to solve the tasks of Greenland's police satisfactorily. Within the police, but also when you look at other areas of government, there are unfair wage differences in the community. We see it both in relation to police officers, we see it with asylum officers and in a number of other areas. This is not appropriate for a government and a modern community of kingdoms, and this should be systematically done up to now. The legitimacy of the Kingdom community lies in equality, and it lies in cooperation, so let us continue the positive tendencies that are in that spirit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906171640	Thank you. There's a couple of questioners. The first is Mrs Karin Gaardsted, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906171648	Thank you. On the journey of the Greenland Committee last week, the overriding theme was exposed children and young people. The draft Finance Act provides for an amount for professional support and for additional supervision. What is the rapporteur's position on this? Is that enough? You mean, you get to the end of that effort?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906171715	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906171718	Thank you for the question. It is true that this was something that all the members of the Greenland Committee were very concerned about on the trip to Greenland here recently. And there is no doubt that there is a great deal of work ahead of us to ensure proper conditions for all children and young people in Greenland. And it is Greenland's responsibility, and it must remain so. However, I think it is very positive that we are looking at how we can work together to find a solution, because what we are doing today is not good enough. And, as I said, I believe that there is a greater recognition than there has been in the past when we have to do something more.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906171757	It's Mrs. Karin Gaardsted again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906171800	For natural reasons, the rapporteur has a special knowledge of Greenlandic conditions. I am a little curious as to whether there are other areas that need the same attention as the one now directed at vulnerable children and young people.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906171825	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906171829	I think that where particular attention should be given is in relation to Greenlanders in Denmark, because there I think we have a responsibility that we do not necessarily live up to today. As I said, we can see that Greenlanders in Denmark are over-represented in social statistics, and that costs both individuals and society. And therefore there is a need to look at how we can increase that effort, especially with a focus on the very early efforts. Unfortunately, we have been told that we cannot participate in the pool negotiations, because a large pool of money has been set aside precisely to ensure concrete initiatives to ensure more preventive action. And what I want to do quite specifically is to go round and talk to the individual social rapporteurs to point out that here there is a group of citizens in Danish society for whom everyone in this Chamber also has a responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906171915	Thank you. Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906171919	Thank you. I don't think it's just the rate pool... it was much better to use the Finance Act directly, so it came in and was an integral part of our economy and not just such temporary projects. I think there is a need for long-term action in Denmark towards Greenlanders too. The rapporteur said a little about Greenlanders coming to Denmark and educating themselves. Now it has been much discussed today what will happen when Danish young people lose some of their SU. What about Greenlandic young people in Denmark? Will it be linked, or will this also worsen their situation when they are training in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906171959	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906172002	First of all, thank you for the question. I very much agree that long-term action is needed. The social challenges that have been built up over many decades are not solved in an easy way and in a fast way. So, yes, there is certainly a need for long-term action. As far as Greenlandic students in Denmark are concerned, we do not as such have calculations on how much it will mean to them, how hard it will hit them, and that is why I think it is important to also take the debate in Greenland and give a call from here that Inatsisartut, Landstinget, and Naalaksuisut, the Greenland Government, also relate much more actively to this. Otherwise, the little more than 500 Greenlandic students we have here in Denmark will find it very difficult to complete their education. And I'm really worried about that. In the same way, we are also concerned that there is a risk that there will be a social imbalance, in other words that some people will be able to study because their parents can help them while others do not have the same opportunities.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906172102	Thank you. Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906172106	As far as the socially vulnerable children in Greenland are concerned, it is of course true that it is formally Greenland's responsibility. But I do not think that we can be free from having a responsibility for all of us. When we have a community of kingdoms, surely we also have a common moral responsibility when we see that children are in need to the extent that it happens, among other things. on the east coast and also in the north; then we must do something together. And there I think one small thing could be to ensure that there were enough social workers in Greenland and to train the necessary numbers of social workers. Can it take place in Greenland, or is it also necessary in Denmark to take additional initiatives?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906172149	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906172152	Thank you for the question. We see, among other things. in the municipality of Kujalleq, which the Greenland Committee also had the opportunity to visit, that they have made a cooperation agreement with Aarhus Municipality on case managers. And the initiatives and experiences that are being made in the municipality of Kujalleq will be interesting to follow, because there is no doubt that this also requires a long-term effort, but it also requires a strong anchoring in Greenlandic society if it is to last in the long term. So I think there are some initiatives that are interesting and there is a greater recognition, as I said, that we need to get this under control. We need to ensure proper conditions for our children and young people.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906172230	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions, and the next one is Mrs Aleqa Hammond, UFG. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906172255	Thank you, President. Greenland has the power, under the Act of Self-Government, to take back a matter from Denmark when Greenland wants to finance it, thereby becoming a legislative and executive power in a given area. This is also the case for the vast majority of matters. It is important that professions are, as far as possible, multi-faceted, whether living or non-living. Denmark and Greenland must make maximum use of both employment and economic benefits. Denmark is also a kingdom of Greenland, a kingdom of different stories, different languages and different governments and yet under the same state. This diversity is a positive dynamic for the Kingdom's partners, but at the same time it also presents many challenges. I certainly think it is important to have a common understanding and common ground in the Kingdom of Denmark in areas which have common interfaces and shared responsibilities. This requires that we have the ability to understand each other's views and needs with respect for language, culture and historical differences, that we have a common understanding and common solutions to ensure the confirmation of legislative definitions and obligations at all times. The draft Finance Act and the forthcoming negotiations can set a new standard for our Kingdom community, where significant improvements can be seen for the whole Kingdom community if the government wants to prioritise this. A long-term effort in close cooperation with Greenland is important. I look forward to seeing funds allocated to this long-term effort in the future. Danish investments in Greenland's infrastructure are very welcome investments that can be win-win for both parties far into the future. This requires that both sides want each other and want to create something together. New shipping routes, new professions and new opportunities can be created together. We have high expectations of improvements in the Arctic part of the Commonwealth, as recommended in both the Taksøe Report and the Ministry of Defence's Arctic report. I'll give you a positive sign for both reports. Secure charts, improved defence training, the establishment of a modern and voluntary response, the acquisition of data to support the submission to the continental shelf and increasing traffic challenges in Greenland's waters are something that requires investment in Greenland and that can ensure a good standard of joint effort and research, as well as improvements and a better framework for a safer Arctic. Greenland's path to independence has resulted in the majority in Inatsisartut, the Greenland Parliament, supporting the proposal to create a Greenlandic constitution. Here I would like to see an active Denmark that cooperates at all times and recognizes Greenland's desire for more self-determination by following us as our closest partner and friend. Preparatory constitutional work could be a good example of a joint effort and a common platform for future cooperation and political coexistence in an ever-changing Arctic. As you know, the police and judicial system in Greenland is a Danish responsibility, an area which has needed substantial improvements for many years. The ability of the police to have joint radio broadcasting will be a natural step which can not only improve working conditions in the country, but also make efforts more effective and thus increase legal certainty for the country's citizens. These are measures that have been on Greenland's police wish list for many years. Equal pay and equal conditions for the entire police force of the empire, all employed by the same authority, are a natural measure which is high on the list of priorities. More than 14 out of 60 settlements are without the law's representative in the form of municipal officers. A community of states which puts legal certainty first also gives priority to fair security, and the fact that a large part of the Greenlandic population is without legal certainty is untenable. I hope that the government will see the seriousness of this and allocate funds to the municipal authorities in Greenland. The fact that you cannot recruit municipal officials is not the answer. The answer lies in the framework conditions which can provide a good foundation for the challenge of the profession as a municipal bailiff. The police and society's efforts to combat hashish in Greenland are very important. It is equally important that the police should be given the opportunity to combat this, even outside Nuuk. It is therefore necessary that the police force on the coast should also be given the resources necessary to carry out the task. The government's 2025 plan has put forward changes to the SU, which will also mean significant deterioration for Greenlandic students in Denmark. The tax conditions in Greenland are different than they are in Denmark. A lot of Greenlandic students find it difficult to complete their studies at the prescribed time, and this is not due to a lack of professionalism, but can be conditional on language differences, a different study environment, a new society, a life 4,000 km away from the family and many other factors play a major role in being able to fall to Denmark. This often results in our students needing a little more time than their Danish fellow students who have grown up in Denmark. It is difficult enough for Danish students here in Denmark to live up to the progress reform and its consequences. I believe that a solution can be found by introducing a clause for Greenlandic students in Denmark if the reform of the SU should become a reality, that is. an agreement which respects the factors mentioned above and which is drawn up in close cooperation with the Greenland Government, Naalaksuisut, and the Greenland Parliament, Inatsisartut, as well as relevant parties in Denmark with the participation of Greenlandic houses and the Greenlandic students' organisation in Denmark, Avalak. A well - functioning society respects each other's language differences in all respects, including spiritual ones. The Greenlandic community in Denmark accounts for more than 18,000 people. For them there is one Greenlandic priest under the Danish Finance Act. The desire for at least one more clergyman and his own Greenlandic church council has been expressed for many years, yet this desire has never been fulfilled. For example, through the Greenland Financial Act, several Danish-speaking priests are financed to serve the Danish-speaking congregation in Greenland, which is actually much smaller than the Greenlandic congregation in Denmark. The National Church provides a good framework for all citizens of the Kingdom, but to be able to hear its own language at weddings, christenings, funerals, grief, etc. is, and will always be, the best option, even one of the official languages of the Kingdom Community, which should have better conditions. The Church Minister told me last year that there is openness to this and I would like to see it become a reality from the 2017 Finance Act. A changing world has resulted in the Arctic being on everyone's lips. A disposal of the Arctic can and must not only benefit our efforts to improve knowledge of the Arctic and the Commonwealth, but also generate interest in investment and external trade. The Danish embassies, who are to represent the whole kingdom, can gain a new dynamic approach to the Arctic by including Greenlanders in their work to promote that part of the kingdom community. Culture, trade and information sharing through embassies will send a signal of a joint effort to promote the Arctic and its opportunities for the whole Kingdom community. We all have an interest in the well-being of all citizens of the Kingdom community. A welfare society also supports those citizens who need help in the social field. The vast majority of Greenlanders living in Denmark are well-off and well-functioning and actively contribute to Danish society, but not all are doing equally well. We have too many people who need a push and help from the system to move forward in life. It has been necessary and still needs a special effort through the Finance Act to be able to accommodate this group of Greenlandic citizens in Denmark in the form of pool funds and based on the strategy for vulnerable Greenlanders. It has benefited many citizens and has created a better framework for the efforts of the Greenlandic houses. This has given the efforts of the municipalities a boost and, above all, it has resulted in better framework conditions for the joint action that is so good. I would like the government to show a willingness to continue this scheme and to do it better than before by making some of the initiatives permanent in close cooperation with parties involved in implementing the action.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906173243	Thank you to the rapporteur. And we'll wait with the questions until after dinner. The sitting will resume at 1 p.m. 18.15.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906181504	We will resume the first reading of Bill No. L 192, and I would like to ask Aleqa Hammond (UFG) to take the floor, because there is a question from Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906181527	After all, I visited the wonderful country of the rapporteur here last week, and I have also read the reports on the situation of children up there. I feel a bit that it is true, of course, that you formally have the right to administer the children's area. There should be no doubt about that, even legally, and the obligation lies with you. But if I can't sit still and I get a stomachache from reading those reports, and I see that there are so many children, for example. On the east coast, which is socially burdened, what do the rapporteur think I should do or that the Danes should do to help? Because I think you're bad friends if you don't say: we want to help with something, what can we do? Because we can't stand to look at it. At least I can't.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906181606	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906181608	I can follow Mr. Christian Juhl in that one can feel a certain impotence because one does not have the legislative and executive power in the area, which is taken by Greenland's Self-Government, but we still live away in the same state, and we have a kingdom community where we commit each other to look at the conditions under which we work and live. I also think that the intercultural cooperation that Greenland and Denmark have with each other should be strengthened and that it should be supported, in order to ensure that there are better funds to carry out good work to promote not only the rights of children but also the rights of women, and the anti-violence campaigns and information campaigns are very, very important. Having said that, I still think that the Greenland Government and the Danish Government's cooperation in many areas should be strengthened, so that an increase in competence in Greenland in general can be the way to support the enormous work that Greenland is facing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906181715	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906181717	Thank you. I agree with the rapporteur that it is not just the work of the government, but of course it is also the people of Greenland who must organise themselves and take responsibility in each village and say: we are standing here and we want the children to feel better. That's clear enough. It must be an interaction between it. But I would say: what about the opportunity to get some more social workers? I feel that it must be extremely difficult to be a Dane and should be a social worker in a village in Greenland, because you have to understand the culture. How do we solve the lack of social workers in Greenland?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906181754	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906181756	This is a difficult area, because not only are we lacking social workers, but we also lack social educators, school teachers and many others from professional groups, which are very important for the children's area. Having said that, however, I also think that, when it comes to the training opportunities offered by Greenland in those fields, there is a great deal of support from young people for training. Having said that, it is far from good enough. We still have a long way to go, and that is why I think it is extremely important that we take all initiatives and think in new ways, in terms of how we can create a better dynamic with the few resources we have in Greenland. But cooperation is certainly necessary everywhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906181837	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Magni Arge from Tjóðveldi.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906181847	I could, of course, stand here and discuss whether it is reasonable to finance top tax reliefs with cuts in the S.U. subsidy, but it is not like my ball street, as my focus is very much about creating the conditions for a Faroe Islands that can take care of itself financially. The Danish State's expenditure on the Faroe Islands corresponds to approx. 1 percent on the Danish state's Finance Act, and in the Faroe Islands we have good reason to imagine a reality where the proposal goes into zero, because it is moving forward in our country. Economic growth has been solid and quite strong in recent years. GDP growth at current prices is expected to land at 8.5%. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles But the best news is that the population is setting new records. The last year, the population has increased by 614 people to 49,552 people, so now we just need the last 448 people, so we can celebrate a milestone of 50,000 citizens in the Faroe Islands for the first time in history. The price of salmon has been record over a long period, and salmon now accounts for almost half of exports. Pelagic fishing continues to go well too. All the proclamations from the EU and shipping companies in Hirtshals and the surrounding area of predatory fishing have proved to be groundless, and we can therefore boast today of a large and sustainable pelagic fishing, which accounts for a significant part of our exports and economic growth. Gradually, growth in these export industries has also led to an increase in private and public demand, which has driven growth rates even higher and has resulted in unemployment now falling to 2.3 per cent. And it is therefore time to reconsider the pace of public investment so that we avoid overheating the economy. We have a good balance of trade surplus, but the surplus on government finances is still modest. With record high salmon prices and large quantities of pelagic fish, as well as record low interest rates and relatively low oil prices, we should see a larger surplus in future so that we can pay off public debt at a faster pace. This is a challenge, because there is not only pressure on boilers in the private sector; many public services are also demanded. And the pressure is increasing at both ends as we get both a growing number of pensioners and relatively many younger settlers. The price adjustment of the block subsidy has been frozen so that the subsidy will remain at 642 million. kr. The next few years, and we're not gonna have any more. This is a step in the right direction, because it is in the interests of most Europeans that we strengthen our economy so that our welfare is fully paid with our own money. And we're getting close. The Faroese taxpayers now pay close to 90%. of the Faroese Finance Act and the block grant is only just over 10%. However, Denmark can still contribute to a faster transition to a fully sustainable economy in the Faroe Islands through a positive attitude towards cooperation on the acceptance of matters and the sharing of vital information, as well as a more pragmatic approach to foreign policy legislation. For example, we will be able to make it to the next stage. If we have taken over the personal, family and inheritance rights, we will be able to adapt the laws more easily to the particular circumstances of our country, but we will also exempt Denmark from a cost of around 8 million. kr. I would also like to say that work on the removal of the legal area is taking place in a very positive spirit of cooperation, which we appreciate and would like to sign for. I understand that the acquisition of the territory of foreigners is also taking place on a planned basis and that it is also going to sign for good cooperation here. On the other hand, the air space is a little more sluggish here, as if the molecules are moving in slow motion. As I mentioned, there is also a need for accommodation in providing strategic information that can prevent, for example. This is the first time that we have had a debate on this subject. The government wants to prevent future financial crises from hitting the Faroe Islands as hard and as frequently as they have done historically. A bill has therefore been submitted to the Latting to establish a Faroese National Bank and a Financial Risk Board for the Faroe Islands. Together, they must counteract the rise in financial crises and advise in such contexts. Landsbanki Føroya shall also manage the country's debt and liquidity, advise the public on financial matters and be the secretariat of the Faroese Risk Board. However, since the four Faroese banks are regulated by Danish legislation and subject to Danish Financial Supervision, the Danish government wants to conclude an agreement with the Danish FSA that the Danish FSA provides information on possible systemic risks in the Faroese banks to the Faroese Risk Board, and the Danish FSA also provides information to the Danish Risk Board. The Faroese Risk Board, known as Føroya Váðaráð, shall include: on this basis, the Faroese authorities provide continuous settings and possible warnings regarding systemic financial risks across the Faroese community. In the field of foreign policy, it is a question of loosening the constraints of foreign policy legislation and creating the best conditions for access to markets and resources so that we can continue to keep the Faroe Islands competitive in relation to our competitors. It should also be very much in Denmark's interest, because the opposite will weaken our ability to pay for our own welfare and hence our purchasing power. And it benefits Denmark. For as much as 28%. of our imports come from trade with Denmark, while only 8%. of our exports go to Denmark. This gives Denmark a trade surplus of 1.2 billion. kr. per year in relation to the Faroe Islands or almost twice the block grant. The dependence on the EU as an export market has decreased in recent years. This is a relatively new development, which is linked to a major shift in exports from the time when Denmark, together with other Nordic and European countries, implemented a total embargo on pelagic exports from the Faroe Islands in 2013 and 2014. Since then, we have cultivated markets in North America, Russia, China and the Far East, so EU countries now only buy half of our exports compared to 80%. Previously on Warehouse 13... The whole case of the Prime Minister's flag initiative, which was supposed to raise awareness of the Faroe Islands in the Danish population, developed into quite a farce. But we'll revisit that story at a later date. I must note, however, that the country's leading university raised a wrong flag on that day too, so the awareness of the Faroe Islands was probably not very great. I therefore do not understand why it is considered at the same time to reduce the one position in the entire Danish university environment which deals with research and teaching in Faroese at the University of Copenhagen. I think it is a pity, because I see a value in the fact that Faroese is also studied and taught in other places than our home field. In general, I find it very difficult to understand why consideration is also being given to aggravating the circumstances of the Arnamagnaean Collection at the University of Copenhagen, which is not only a historical and philological diamond, but also an invaluable foundation under the Nordic culture, which bears comparison with the importance of classical Greek and Roman writings for European civilisation. In the collection there are also Faroese writings of great historical importance, and if the result of these cuts is that they are packed into some damp basement in Copenhagen, I would recommend the government's responsible to hand over the scriptures to the Department of Faroese Language and Literature in Tórshavn, where they will be highly appreciated. After all, it is a cultural heritage that lights up in the same way as the lighthouse at Nólsoy, which has the most powerful light-signalling devices throughout Northern Europe. Now I don't know if there's any more coffee in the Minister's pitcher, but I'm happy to have a talk about the conditions I have mentioned. By the way, I congratulate Denmark on the victory over Armenia the other day. Tonight it is about the Faroe Islands, as if they are about to fight Hungary at home in Tórshavn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906182817	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906182823	Well, thank you to the rapporteur for the report. I think that we can now see a small positive thing in the next few years up to 2025, namely that we are saving money for the Faroe Islands. That's money in the hand. It's not birds on the roof, like it is when the finance minister talks. I would like the rapporteur to clarify this a little. If you want independence, you must also have a constitution, and there have been some rumblings between, among others. The Prime Minister and some Greenlandic politicians about how far one can go. What is the rapporteur's view of this matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906182858	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906182901	Thank you. I'd like to say to Mr. Christian Juhl, I think we should have a constitution or constitution, whether we become fully independent or we continue on a basis similar to what we have now or something in between. And I believe that, simply because the Faroe Islands have gradually taken on such major regulatory, administrative and financial obligations, and we have quite different conditions for our welfare and our society than what is in Denmark, and it is absolutely necessary that we have as much cohesion as possible in our society. Cows in general do not recognize themselves in the Danish constitution, but we need to recognize ourselves in a common constitution. This does not necessarily mean that it must at the same time end with a secession, but it may well be something that can go on in parallel, so one still has a Danish constitution and a Faroese constitution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906183001	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906183003	How will the process be organised in the Faroe Islands, and when will we be allowed to read the first draft of the constitution?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906183010	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906183012	Now it is not with me to manage the process as a member of the Folketing as such. It actually goes on in the Faroese Home Rule Government, and then it comes in the Faroese Laying, where it will then be sent to a referendum. What I can tell you is that there is currently a discussion in the governing parties of the national government about this, also with leading party chairmen in the opposition, and then it will come up in the Latting, and eventually it will be sent out for a referendum. There is no doubt that it will then also be announced to others in the outside world what we intend to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906183053	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Sjúrður Skaale from Javnaðarflokkurin.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906183101	Fancy, classy! That's not gonna be the big, winged, ideological speech from me. I have a meeting with the Minister for Finance tomorrow, and it is my experience that it is sometimes the case that what is spoken about at the table is more important than what is proclaimed from the platform. So we're going to bet on it this time. There are not many items in the draft Finance Act dealing with the Faroe Islands, and the amounts are not large, and as Mr. Magni Arge said, it's about 1 percent, and they don't grow like most other items, they get smaller. It's a broad spectrum on the Faroe Islands agree is a good thing. The nominal freeze of the block grant therefore has the backing of most lots in the Lagtinget. The 641.8 million. kr. in block grants for next year is between 300-400 million. kr. less than the block grant was 15 years ago. If we take the value of it, the subsidy is in fact far more than halved during this period. It has created a buoyancy in the Faroese economy, which might not have been there if the support from Denmark had not been cut so sharply. The reality is, at least, that the Faroese GDP per year. The population has never been nearly as large as it is now. Of course, it can quickly go down in an economy that is as dependent on living resources as the Faroese is, but the snapshot is certainly very positive. We're not gonna get out of this. Then the only question is whether the current government can do the hardest job of all in terms of economic policy, namely to manage in good times, to smooth the business cycle rather than to reinforce it. I hope so. At least that's what we're trying to do. We are very conscious of not strengthening the economic cycle, we are very conscious of keeping up with public consumption while private consumption is high. It is also in Denmark's interest, because the stronger the Faroe Islands are economically, the healthier the relationship between Denmark and the Faroe Islands. For the truth is that the financial transfers from Denmark to the Faroe Islands often shadow and damage other parts of the relationship. On the other hand, of course, the Kingdom community must also be expressed. Of course, this must also be reflected in the Finance Act. It does, and it does in the Faroese Finance Act. My younger son has just started in the 4th grade, and that means that we and he are now sitting over the kitchen table and terping Danish. A lot of money is spent in the Faroe Islands to teach children and young Danish both at primary and secondary level. It is the Kingdom Community, you might say, which can be read in the Faroese Finance Act. Unfortunately, in Denmark there is not so much focus on Faroe Islands or Faroese culture at school, but as Magni Arge just said, there has been a position in a small institute at the University of Copenhagen, where you have been able to study Faroese and Faroese nature at a high level, and there is now much evidence that that position is being closed as part of the savings. Of course, the university has its own budget, but how to dispose also depends on the money granted here by the Danish Parliament, and you are also listening to the signals that come from the Danish Parliament. And I hope that this position in the small institute survives and that instead of removing it as the only thing there is, it strengthens so that Faroese and Faroe Islands become stronger in school than it has been, both at high level and at primary school level. If we take a closer look at the Finance Act, we will see that 16 million will have to be spent. kr. in 2017 on crew and deployment of a frigate in the Arctic. It's a recommendation from the Department of Defense in their big report on the task of defense in the Arctic in the future. First of all there must be patrolling the Faroe Islands, that is what is needed, and I acknowledge that. It's a fine investment and a necessary investment. Another item that I would like to question is the Growth Fund and it will receive almost 69 million. kr. next year, of which nearly 24 million. kr. are earmarked for so-called small growth guarantees. Last year, 5 million went by. kr. of the 24 million kr. for initiatives in the Faroe Islands. I do not see in the Finance Act that this is the case again this year. I would like to follow up on that and ask questions about and follow up. I think it is through cultural and economic cooperation that we should strengthen our relationship, rather than through benefits. If we work together economically, culturally and so on, we will have a good relationship. If we focus more on benefits, we will have a worse relationship in many areas. UArctic is a very successful university collaboration between the Arctic countries. They've got 3 million. kr. a year over the last years of their deletion in 2017 and the last 3 million. kr. will be granted this year. You cannot see from the Finance Act whether it is intended to continue, but I would recommend that you do so, even after 2017. What more do you want me to say? Of course, there are some things about the relationship between Denmark and the Faroe Islands. There are, because Denmark is part of the EU and the Faroe Islands are outside, sometimes some complications. For example: It is this way that when you buy digital goods and services in the Faroe Islands, there is a provision in the European Union which says that it is the country of purchase that must have VAT. After all, there is almost no house that doesn't have Netflix or HBO and the kind you buy music and everything over the net. Everything that is bought in the Faroe Islands is now in Denmark, because it is the state, it is a question of having an agreement on the Faroe Islands, and I hope that the Danish side will take a positive view of this. Otherwise, I look forward to the meeting with the Minister for Finance tomorrow. Thank you for inviting me. We'll have a nice discussion tomorrow over a cup of coffee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906183716	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. This means that we have no more rapporteurs and I will leave the platform to the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906183739	I will start by outlining the main thrust of the Government's Finance Bill for 2017. In addition, I will also look at the main elements of the government's overall plan for a stronger Denmark, our presentation for a new 2025 plan. The two elements together constitute the government's proposal for a responsible and ambitious economic policy. The government's draft Finance Bill is called "Welfare, Security and Accountability." This is because these three elements form the basis of the Government's Finance Bill for 2017. With the draft Finance Act, the government has given priority to strengthening core welfare and security in Denmark. We are working, like last year, within a responsible framework. Priority remains to be given within a responsible framework, and therefore the heading of this year's Finance Act is "Welfare, Security and Accountability." Let me begin with the last, responsibility. It is central to the government that public finances are sound and planned away from the budget law deficit limit. Last year's Finance Act established an incipient distance from the budgetary law. The Government's draft Finance Act 2017 maintains the responsible course and therefore we maintain that the deficit does not exceed 0.4 per cent. of GDP in 2017. At the same time, with the Finance Bill and the 2025 Plan, we have dealt with the investment challenge that we inherited from the previous government, and that is responsible economic policy. At the same time, the government is in charge of a firm, strict and responsible asylum policy. It has produced results, and among other things. Therefore, we have seen a marked drop in the influx to Denmark this year. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing has downgraded the estimate for asylum seekers to 10,000 for 2016 and the years ahead. This is a marked downward adjustment compared to what we expected when we made finance legislation last year. Here we expected a total of 25,000 asylum seekers in 2016 and 15,000 in 2017 and in the years ahead. The downward adjustment also means that total foreign expenditure is approx. 3 billion kr. lower in 2017 compared to what we had provided for last year's Finance Act. When we have fewer costs for asylum seekers in Denmark, we free money that we can spend in other areas. Firstly, we can help more in the neighbourhoods of refugees. We give priority to action in the neighbourhood by a total of 1 billion. kr. in 2016 and 2017, to total 4,7 billion. kr. This is the highest amount that any Danish government has allocated to the community effort on a financial law. The funds, for example, will be: be used for community action in Syria and its neighbouring countries. We can therefore help more refugees in their vicinity because fewer people have come to Denmark. Secondly, there is room for us to strengthen core welfare and allocate money to increase security and security in Denmark. The government's priorities on this year's Finance Act are clear: More money for core welfare and more money to ensure that Denmark is a safe and secure country. The financial bill contains a significant boost to our core welfare, which the government is strengthening by 1 billion. kr. in 2017 alone. The money must include: go to better cancer treatment. Here we are fulfilling the government's promise of an ambitious cancer plan IV, so that by 2020 an additional 1.5 billion will be added. kr. to the area. It comes on top of already allocated funds. The cancer area has thus been raised by a total of 2.2 billion. kr. Towards 2020. We want to ensure more quality of life for the elderly in nursing homes in the form of cutting cards, which the elderly are free to choose how they want to use. We set aside some 700 million. kr. to the clipboard scheme until 2020, which the elderly can use on a trip to the hairdresser, accompanied by a grandson's wedding or to host friends and family. The government gives priority to security and security. Denmark is a safe and secure country. Citizens can generally walk safely on the streets and in their homes, and this must continue to be the case at a time when we are facing new challenges, among others. with terror. That is why we are creating a national security pool totalling 2.2 billion. kr. for the period 2017-2020. The funds must be put into effect on an annual basis for interventions in the fields of defence, police, anti-terrorism, security, etc., and some of the funds for the pool are included in our 2025 plan. Our tax administration has experienced major problems in recent years. An efficient and fair tax system is essential if confidence in the tax system is to be maintained. That's why the government is adding 1.3 billion. kr. in 2017 for the recovery of the tax administration. I would like to emphasise that there are no quick or easy solutions. It's gonna be a long, cool move to get our IRS back on track. In total, we are increasing the funding for SKAT by just under 7 billion. kr. Towards 2020. The money must go to build up a functioning system in the area of property assessments and to recover debts and customs duties, while at the same time strengthening the basic operation. It is important that we give the SKAT calm and the financial framework to restore operations in key areas of work, and that is what we are doing now. In addition to a significant strengthening of core welfare, the government will also strengthen efforts towards some of the most vulnerable in our society. The government wants a better veteran effort. Our veterans need proper treatment; we owe them that. We want to strengthen the fight against bullying among children and young people, and we set aside money to help the Greenlandic fellow citizens who are particularly difficult. Finally, we want to create a more secure framework for housing offers so that employees do not have to work with the fear of violence constantly buzzing in the back of their heads. So let me sum up: the government has presented a responsible financial bill in which we show that the government is willing to prioritise within a healthy financial framework. The government has then presented an overall plan for Denmark. Although Danish economy is progressing, it is not a matter of course that it continues. There are clouds in the sky. We have seen the Brexit vote in England, which could, in the long term, cause considerable difficulties. We are witnessing an election campaign in the United States, which is, of course, about how to limit free trade in the world. Italian banks are not really doing the stress tests, and Putin is waging war in Ukraine and threatening the Baltic countries. Then we have Syria, we have ISIL, and we have terror in France, Belgium and Germany. We must equip the Danish economy, for no one else does that for us. We have a number of challenges in Denmark: We have too low productivity development. We have too many on transfer income • 18-65 years of age. We must ensure that working pays off. We also see that public finances are under pressure... the low price of oil costs us many, many billions of dollars in good revenue... and, at the same time, we are under pressure on the expenditure side. We have a demographic challenge: we are getting older and there are fewer young people entering the labour market in the coming years, and this is moving fast after 2020. We can also see that not all Danes have pension savings for old age. After all, we also propose that we work together to do something about this. We have problems with the interplay between pension savings and social benefits. These are a number of challenges that Danish society faces and that we invite with the 2025 plan to jointly address. The plan is based on a broad approach, which one can hear, to the task. We turn on a lot of buttons. I do not believe in the simple solutions. I do not think that higher public spending solves all the challenges in Denmark. Nor do I believe that the relief of the top tax alone will solve the problems in Denmark. Helping entrepreneurs does not solve the problem either. In fact, we do not believe that a single grip is a patent solution. In the view of the government, the solution is to adjust several things at the same time. We must create growth and we must create jobs. We need to ensure economics and jobs so that we can strengthen core welfare so that we can strengthen the police, defence and police intelligence so that we can be safe, so that we can also raise the quality of education so that we can ensure that all Danes get a savings for old age and so that we can ensure that we do not have more asylum seekers than we can manage to integrate. All this cannot be achieved without money, and money is only provided when companies produce and sell when the citizens are in work and pay taxes to the community. If we do not create a dynamic economy, there will be no room for all the good that we want. We had a long debate today. I think perhaps the people who have followed the debate are left with the feeling that there is nothing we can agree on in this Chamber. I refuse to believe that this would be the case, and I would like to sign for the speakers from the rapporteurs who have acknowledged that Denmark has been challenged on a number of points. We now need to start negotiations on the 2017 Finance Act and the comprehensive plan for Denmark. I will put all the effort into the task and look forward to our negotiations so that we can find some sustainable solutions to Denmark's challenges. Now all the parties have put their thoughts forward in this Chamber today, and I would now like to call on all of us to get into the work clothes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906185038	Thank you to the Minister for Finance. There are a large number of brief comments. The first one's from sir. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906185052	Thank you to the Minister for Finance for the speech. It was long as always. In fact, I would just like to ask the Minister to address one small point, which the Minister was not so clear about in his speech, namely whether the Minister will confirm that the 2025 plan does not provide for funds to continue the housing tax freeze after 2020. Can the Minister also confirm that the government is planning to lift the housing tax stop after 2020?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906185121	Minister of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906185123	On this point, I would like to say that it is important for the government to create security for the property owners and that the property owners know what they have to deal with. We therefore want to maintain the housing tax freeze on housing unchanged until 2020, and I have the impression that there is a broad consensus on this in this Chamber. Thus, a new housing tax system will only be introduced from 2021, and this creates a calm about housing taxes. For the government, it is important that we design the new housing tax system so that the new property valuations in 2019 do not result in increased revenue to the state from housing taxes. The government has therefore set aside a reserve of 24 billion. kr. Until 2025. Of these, approx. 7 billion kr. to go to homeowners who have historically paid too much in property tax, and the remaining approx. 17 billion. kr. is dedicated to ensuring the security of the property owners in the transition to the new property valuations.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906185234	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906185236	Thank you to the Minister for Finance, but that is not what I asked. I asked whether it is intended to abolish the housing tax stop after 2020, and we were given a long explanation around that without getting an answer. It is now fortunate that yesterday the Minister for Finance replied to the same question to the Committee on Finance, so let me ask in another way. Can the Minister confirm the reply to question 423 of the Financial Committee. part where the financial minsiter replies that the housing tax stop will not be extended after 2020?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906185309	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906185311	It is the government's intention to reduce total housing taxes. Details will come later when we come forward with our proposals. And when I do not embark on making guarantees to the right and left, as Mr. Benny Engelbrecht can, because we now need to look at the overall assessment system, and then we need to have a political debate on what we do when we see it. But I just want to say that for the government, it is a goal that we do not increase property taxation. But I don't feel like I'm in a position where I can just start giving guarantees after 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906185406	Sir. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906185414	Thank you to the Minister for the speech. Although the Minister says that if you have followed a little, you can see that there is not much that gathers here, I will then, in order to remain on the question that was raised by Mr Giscard d'Estaing. Benny Engelbrecht, I would like to congratulate the Minister for failing to adopt a model at first reading. That is why I would also like to ask the Minister whether this is not one of the tasks that is where we should also make a broad agreement on housing taxation. It is a task that has been there for a long time. This is something that, fortunately, at this stage has not had a negative impact on the housing market, but if there is no solution that goes forward for those who are going to buy a dwelling or who own a dwelling, so that they have an opportunity to see both 10, 15 and 20 years ahead and plan their economy, then we have a challenge in the housing market. So can the Minister not confirm that it is a shell task, and does the Minister not also agree that a broad agreement in the residential area would be preferable?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906185512	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906185514	Yes, it is one of the duty tasks that we have a duty task that the previous government had, as we have, and as future governments also have, in other words, to provide security in the area of housing taxation in this country. I will still stick to the objective and say: let us now see, when we present the new assessment system, how we will ensure it. What I can promise the landowners is that it is our intention that housing taxes should not increase. Yes, right now we are actually trying to solve a number of problems for the homeowners, but it would take a broad majority of the Danish Parliament to resolve this matter. Because it's vital to a lot of citizens in this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906185606	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906185608	Thank you very much for your answer. I thought it was really positive. I have a completely different question. That's how you do it. In the field of cash benefits now a principle of earning in relation to receiving cash benefits has been established. If you haven't been in Denmark long enough, i.e. 6 years out of 7 years, you can't get full cash benefits, but then you go on the integration benefit. I would like to ask the government whether it is something that it could be expected to do in relation to other social benefits too. Now we have also discussed the SU and other things here today. So if you could continue working on the principle that has been introduced in relation to cash benefits, a sort of income principle in relation to how long you have been in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906185640	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906185642	Well, it is a debate that is on the agenda permanently, and that is a road we would like to continue along, in other words to explore what can be done in that area. So I would like to make a commitment that we will continue to work on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906185657	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906185707	Thank you. I would like to ask the Minister of Finance for this famous cashier, whom I have discovered that the government and the members of the Left have become so excited to talk about. Because you're saying this whole tax reform is about the cashier and the lowest-paid, but the truth is that a cashier gets, I think it's $300. a month, out of it, and that it's still the millionaire who gets the biggest payout if the plan is implemented. I do not even need to ask the Minister of Finance to confirm that, because that is the facts. So my question is perhaps closer: can the Minister himself remember having participated in a greater spin manoeuvre than this overall plan?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906185806	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906185809	Thank you. I thought it was a lady sitting here. We just changed. But I call the Minister. ' I just want to say that this isn't a spin maneuver. We have arranged our tax relief so that the greatest reliefs are given at the bottom, and the greatest relief is given to the cashier this 7%. in tax relief. It's smaller than the top tax payer gets. But it's clear that percentage calculations are a bit of a tricky thing. I mean, 1%. of a high income is, after all, more than 1%. of a low income. Therefore, I think that the right way to measure it is of course by looking at the percentages.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906185906	Mrs. Pernille Skipper. That's what I'm talking about!).
ParlaMint-DK_20160906185914	Hopefully the Minister of Finance will be calm again. But it is really a serious matter. Because it may well be that the Minister of Finance is good at percentage calculations, but the facts are still gone, that the cashier in crowns and ears gets significantly less in hand than the millionaire does, and then you can call it anything, but it is and remains a red wine reform, especially when we look at where the bill is being sent. Because it is not the children of the millionaire who have a problem with paying bills when they have to go through education with a lower SU, nor are they the ones who have a problem when there are even fewer educators in kindergartens or when it gets even worse in public hospitals, and it is also spin when the finance minister stands and says that they want to invest more in welfare. For the Ministry of Finance's own calculations, 0.5 per cent. Not at all enough to ensure that we do not see cuts in the future, let alone the green cheque and all the other bills that are being sent to ordinary people. So I'll try again, have we tried a bigger spin maneuver than this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906190026	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906190027	I would just like to say to Mrs Pernille Skipper that in our proposal that we have put forward, we have both calculated it as percentages and we have presented the actual figures in relation to what this entails by tax cuts in kroner and ear. So to talk about a spin maneuver, I think I'm completely out of place. Because we have presented exactly what the facts are in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906190053	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906190056	First of all, I would like to make it clear to Mrs Pernille Skipper that it is not a millionaire to make a million dollars. kr. a year, unless you make all your money black and have no expenses at all to spend money on. But I would like to ask the Minister for Finance a question. The Minister for Finance says he doesn't think that public spending solves all the problems in this society, and I fully agree with that. The interesting thing is that when the government went to elections just over a year ago, it said that there was no need for any more public spending, because we already had one of the world's most expensive public sectors, and it should not be even more expensive. Instead, the Left said: we need to spend the same money to lighten the tax at the bottom. Now the government's 2025 plan will spend 22 billion. kr. to increase public consumption and only 4.5 billion. kr. to lighten the treasure at the bottom. It's a huge re-prioritization of what you think is important in this society. What is the explanation for this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906190158	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906190200	The explanation is, of course, that we are presenting an overall plan here, in which we must take account both of the increasing costs which, for example, we have to bear in mind. We know that there will be an increase in costs and, at the same time, we want to support the growth and productivity of society by facilitating taxes and by ensuring that work is worthwhile. So I don't think there's a contradiction between these things. But I have to admit that we are facing rising costs and an expenditure pressure which means that we have to include growth in public consumption. Now we have presented an overall plan, and the strength of that plan is that we can both ensure growth in public spending in the years to come, ensure that there is more money for welfare, ensure that there is more money for security and that at the same time we can lighten the tax. Because we're gonna have to walk on more legs in this bet.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906190309	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906190310	The Liberal Alliance went to the polls on an overall plan for what would happen to Denmark until 2025. I understand, then, that the Left went to the polls on something other than an overall plan, and that is why we have changed our views on this. But I think that's a strange explanation. Because the circumstances that the Minister of Finance says change of mind were also known a year ago. We knew there were demographic challenges, and we had them included in our overall plan in the Liberal Alliance. So I am surprised that one can say that it is quite unproblematic that one goes to the polls, that one will spend a lot of money to lighten the tax at the bottom, and then when one comes to power, one will not spend much money at all on it. Instead, you want to do something that was said in the election campaign that you would not spend money on, namely, massively increased public spending.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906190401	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906190402	But that's because we want to solve several things at once in this plan. What is the essence of the plan we have presented is that we are not just concentrating on one thing, but that we are looking at both tax relief and business costs, we are looking at the interaction between pensions and public services, we are looking at safety, we are looking at hospital services and so on. What is the whole essence of what we are doing here is that we are now turning on a large number of buttons, and the net result is that we are creating an economic space which can both ensure tax relief and which can ensure that we can meet the requirements of public consumption.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906190448	Mrs. Josephine Fock from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906190450	Thank you to the Minister for Finance for starting by thanking the rapporteurs who recognise that Denmark has been challenged. I just don't know if I have to count myself in that group, but if I have to, I thank you for that. But I would like to point out a little other challenges, as I also pointed out in my speech, because how does the Minister of Finance feel about Denmark's greenhouse gas emissions, according to the Danish Energy Agency's base projections, going to increase unless new measures are implemented, and how does the 2025 plan relate to the signing of the Paris Agreement that we should ensure that the temperature on the planet does not rise?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906190529	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906190530	I just want to say that there is nothing in this overall plan that weakens the green transition or weakens our climate action. We're still a long way in the lead in these areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906190547	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906190548	Yes, but it is of no use when new measures still need to be taken so that the temperature does not rise. I do not agree with the Minister for Finance there. But then let me address another issue in relation to social sustainability. How does the Minister of Finance intend to deal with the fact that there are 900,000 Danes who say that they cannot make family and working life together according to the Family Commission? We know that there are 35,000 Danes who report sick every day because of stress. Is this something that could be predicted to be taken into account in the 2025 plan? That is certainly not something I can read immediately.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906190626	The rapporteur, no, the Minister, I apologise.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906190628	These are, of course, some subjects that are, like, difficult to specify. And what are we gonna do about it? Well, I have to admit that we are not in favour of a 30-hour week if that is what Mrs Josephine Fock thinks can solve all these problems. It is, of course, a question of how work is organised in the workplace, but it is just as much a question of how individual families organise and prioritise their everyday lives. Quite objectively one can see that the Danes work less than they did in the past, so one cannot, I think, draw a direct comparison and link between a lower working time and then more stress and illness in the family.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906190721	Sir. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906190723	Let me begin by acknowledging that the Minister of Finance, in line with the Danish People's Party and the Liberal Alliance and many others, agrees with the Radicals that the time has run from the housing tax stop; that it is not something that gives the property owners security; it is antisocial; and it is time to find a new property tax. We welcome that and we would like to contribute to that solution. Then I would like to ask two questions, which are about exactly the fact that we want to pass on a good Denmark. There are many good tactics, I have also said in my rapporteur's speech, in the government's proposal, but in two areas we are really concerned. One is education, because while we want to increase quality, as the Minister says, we are cutting through a re-priority contribution of 0.9 billion. kr. in education alone in 2017. And when you add it together, money is taken from the education system. And one of our absolute objectives for entering into these negotiations will be to increase the funding for education from ABC to PhD. Then the Minister of Finance says, like the other, that there is nothing in the government's plan that harms the climate. That was quite a claim. Savings have been proposed for 7.2 billion. In addition to the fact that the government will not stand by the energy settlement. I hope that I can get the Minister of Finance to say today that, as with the SU, the government respects the energy settlement, and on that basis we are negotiating. Can the Minister confirm that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906190845	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906190846	I just have to say that as far as energy is concerned, it is the case that the PSO system, the PRS tax, is abolished per year. January 1. There I do not think we can have a system where there is a circle of parties that can decide to build wind turbines and that can do anything else unless these parties also help to find funding. It cannot be said that there is a broad circle, for example. The Enhedslisten, who wants to patch Denmark up with wind turbines, but then will not help to find the funding for this. I think that is a totally untenable attitude that some of the parties in the energy conciliation have. They just think that spending can be adopted without having to contribute to the party in finding funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906190942	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906190942-2	I put a question to the Minister for Finance and I do not feel quite taken and am not in the category that is not ready to find funding. But is the government at the energy settlement? And then I agree that we have a job to do in finding a solution to the PSO issue. I think many parties would like to contribute to that. We have a slightly different approach, but, as several have indicated, this is a task that we need to solve. But the starting point is that there is an energy reconciliation, and then we negotiate. We have also said that we want to make this energy reconciliation cheaper. It is not because we will be very, very firm on all the elements. We would just like the Minister of Finance to say in good parliamentary tradition what his Prime Minister said at the press conference, namely that of course one can rely on the Left to keep its agreements. Then we hope that we can convince the government that investing in education for the next generation is also a good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906191032	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906191033	I just want to say that it's a very hard thing if Mr. Simpson... Martin Lidegaard will argue that this energy agreement applies in any case, even if there are parties that will not be involved in finding funding. I mean, it doesn't add up that you can just say that we have a settlement. For me, I have to say, there are some shattered assumptions in connection with the energy conciliation, among others. That the PRS tax has gone crazy and today brings much, much more than was predicted when the conciliation was concluded. But now we are discussing it. We are prepared to discuss how to cheapen it. After all, it is no secret that we want to get rid of the coastal wind turbines, and that is something we must discuss. We'd much rather bet on some offshore wind farms far away, so you couldn't see these offshore wind turbines.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906191130	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906191132	Thank you. I would like to ask the Minister for Finance if it is not a fact that because of the 2% re-priority contribution. Annual savings of 3.4 billion will be made in 2019. kr. In terms of training, the same year as the government will give 1 billion. kr. I think it is a good idea for the Commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the European Parliament's powers are respected and that the European Parliament's powers in this area are respected. kr., and then you say: OK, then we take some of that money and give it back to a welfare pool. And that's how you could go on. Isn't it a fact that the government calls in all these savings and then takes a fraction of them and delivers them back, either to education or to the municipalities, or what do we have?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906191223	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906191224	I know, of course, that we look differently at the possibilities of efficiency, of making work better and cheaper, of organising work differently in the public sector, thereby ensuring that we get more for tax dollars. I know that SF and Enhedslisten believe that we have reached the ideal state of this society: nothing can or should be changed, everything is locked down. And in this way we are freed from having to deal with it. I do not share that view. In fact, I think that we can do the hospital service is an excellent example of how to streamline with 21⁄2%. a year, and in this way, more patients get through the system.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906191325	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906191326	I think, especially in Køge, they'll think it's going superduper. But I think that in many hospitals you think you run really, really fast, both doctors and nurses and many others. But it is true that we look at it differently, and there must of course be room for that. I just mean in relation to a saving of 3.4 billion. kr. In the case of training, it is not the case that Denmark lacks unskilled labour. It would be an investment in the future. You save over 7 billion. kr. on the green transition, when we know that it is a bottom-up task when we know that green technology is our biggest export product and can create us jobs and that climate change is a fact. That would be investing in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906191409	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906191410	Yeah, but that's the way we look at it. I mean, I see it as my job to ensure that taxpayers get as much as possible for their money. I think they pay quite a lot of money in taxes, and there is just our simple obligation to keep working to make things better. And I understand that Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen has such a relentless attitude towards everything, that is, that everything is so sad that it cannot get any better, but I do not share that view.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906191440	Sir. Nicolai Wammen of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906191444	In his speech, the Minister of Finance emphasized that there should be security for the landowners, and that is probably a good idea, because if you just take one of today's newspapers, you can see that it says: You are hit so hard: Løkke's shock bill for the homeowners! It could cost up to 35,000 kroner. annual. When you have seen in the 2025 plan that has come, there is also no provision for a penny to maintain the tax freeze on housing. My question to the Minister for Finance is therefore: is the government ready with a new property assessment system so that you can have security for the property owners and clarification for the hundreds of thousands of homeowners who are standing out there right now and do not know whether they have been bought or sold? In other words, can the Minister of Finance confirm that a new property assessment system by the government is now ready?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906191535	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906191537	We will soon be ready to present a new property assessment system and proposals on how to deal with property taxes in the future. It is the government's clear ambition to ensure that we do not have to pay more in real estate taxes, that on the contrary we have to pay something less, and we will shortly call for negotiations on this, because it is clear that the insecurity of the population cannot live with it. On the one hand, we must pay back those who have paid too much in land tax, in property tax, in recent years, and, on the other hand, we must ensure that, in future, the economy of those affected by the new assessments will be of such a nature that it will be as gentle as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906191632	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906191636	Then I have one question on the occasion of the Minister of Finance. Now that you are presenting your package in terms of creating security for the homeowners, can the Minister of Finance say clearly today whether part of that package will be that the tax freeze on housing will continue even after 2020? In other words, can the landowners look forward to the tax freeze introduced under former Prime Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen also holding under the current Prime Minister, Lars Løkke Rasmussen, or must one leave this debate without any clarification on that issue?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906191714	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906191715	As a rule, I always attach importance to being objective in my approach to work, and it would be, I think, wrong when we have not seen and presented the new property assessment system, when we have not looked at what the consequences will be, to provide some guarantees. What I'm saying is that property owners don't have to pay any more in property taxes. That is essentially the ambition of the government. I also believe that we can ensure that we have to pay less than we do today. But in the interest of the truth, I must also say that there will of course be a difference in how people are affected by the new assessments. Some will experience a large increase, others will experience a slight increase, some will experience a decrease in the property assessment. However, I think that, in all seriousness, we should all now sit around a table when we see the new property assessments and agree as soon as possible on how to resolve that problem so that there can again be security in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906191827	Sir. Erik Christensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906191829	Thank you. I think we all share the view of the Minister for Finance that we want to create as much security for homeowners as possible. However, I had a little doubt when the Minister for Finance replied to Benny Engelbrecht's question some time ago. Can the Minister for Finance please refresh my memory of what the Minister for Finance replied to the Finance Committee's question 423 of 3 August on the conditions for housing taxation underlying the calculations in Denmark's convergence programme 2016 in the light of the work on the new property assessments? Can the Minister of Finance please refresh my memory of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906191912	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906191913	I'm afraid I can't. As it comes in with questions about the property assessments, I find it hard to remember what the answer to question 423 is.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906191922	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906191923	That's fair enough, too. But then I would like to ask whether the Minister here today can guarantee that no homeowners will pay more in housing tax in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906191938	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906191939	I think I will refrain from giving any guarantee on that. That's what I've been trying to answer, sir. Nicolai Wammen. It is of course very interesting, I think, that socialists can give out these guarantees. It is of course very interesting that the Social Democratic Party can provide a guarantee that no one will pay more in property tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906192002	Sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906192005	Thank you. My question is actually quite simple: does the Minister for Finance think that the Minister for Finance would have been Minister for Finance and the current Prime Minister would have been Prime Minister today if the election campaign had been fair and honest with us about the plans now being implemented?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906192027	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906192028	Yeah, I think so in and out. I think the Danes are reasonable people who can see that we have to solve some of the challenges we have, namely that productivity growth is too low in Denmark, that we have to create some more jobs, that it has to pay to work, etc. I believe that the Danes are reasonable enough to realise that we have some of the challenges. So I'm full of confidence in that. Then, of course, we give the Danes the security that we also gave them in 2010 and 2011, when we carried out an unemployment benefit reform, and when we changed the post-retirement salary. It was not something that we had gone to the polls, and that is why it has been important for us to say that with the major reforms that we are implementing, but which we have not made in an election campaign, there must be a choice before they enter into force, so that the voters can throw us out if they disagree with it. And we live up to that here too. So I think this concern, sir. Pelle Dragsted has, is completely unfounded. I think the Danes can understand very well that the world is not cast in concrete, where nothing should be changed and everything should be as it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906192145	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906192146	If you have the confidence in the Danes expressed by the Minister of Finance, then it is only strange that you did not tell the students that you intended to cut back on their benefits, but said the opposite. Then it's just strange that you didn't tell them that you were prepared to force the Danes to work longer, but you said the opposite. It is not true what the Minister for Finance says when the Minister for Finance says that these reforms will only come into force after elections. Does the reduction in housing benefits for pensioners come into effect only after an election? Does the lower green check come into effect only after a choice? If the adjustment of the transfer income takes place yes, they will then enter into force only after a choice has been made. However, there are a large number of measures that affect pensioners and early retirement pensions directly on the wallet and which, according to your own plan, will enter into force per year. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Why didn't they tell the pensioners last summer during the election campaign that they had to pay more taxes? That would have been an honest case. I think it is fine to disagree politically. That's the way it is. And it's not that I don't want to change some things, I just want to change something other than the Minister of Finance. But I think you should be honest when you go to the polls, and that applies regardless of whether you are called Claus Hjort Frederiksen or Helle Thorning-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906192255	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906192256	Sir. Pelle Dragsted, that is, it's preposterous to hear the talk from a party that was a parliamentary basis for a S-SF-RV government, which carried out some very drastic things during the period they were sitting and who went to the polls at a Fair Solution and Fair Change, which were air castles. Well, excuse me. We all have to admit that things are changing. There may be things that require you to do something. I have also noticed that the very critical attitude which Mr. Pelle Dragsted had to go to the police, as through time has changed to a hug of the police here in the fight against terrorism. And that's how things change. So you have to, like, tackle the challenges you face in everyday life. Even the defense, I think, sir. Pelle Dragsted is pretty safe. After all, you would like to send flights to Libya, for example. That is also an expression of something that perhaps had not been discussed with the electorate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906192406	Sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906192408	Thank you. Last year, at this time, I asked the Minister for Finance in this Chamber whether the reason why Denmark's climate ambitions had been relaxed was that it was expected that the threats to climate and the environment were being reduced here in the world. Here and now I would like to ask the question in a different way. When virtually no word is given about climate and environmental challenges in the 2025 plan, is it because it is expected that the threats to climate and the environment in this world have completely disappeared?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906192442	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906192443	No, it is an indication that we are maintaining the green transition and that Denmark must still be at the forefront of the green transition. That is, of course, our policy, and we are pursuing that objective.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906192457	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906192458	A report by the UN Refugee Agency estimates that by the year 2050 there will be as many as 200 million climate refugees, i.e. people fleeing due to climate problems. I would like to hear a little more specific about what the Minister thinks we can do here in Denmark to counteract climate change and how Denmark can set a good example in the world to counter climate change.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906192522	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906192523	Well, I think it's common knowledge that we're pretty much at the forefront of dealing with those challenges. Green energy is, after all, a very large part of an area where we are clearly at the forefront. But personally I think that Denmark's biggest contribution can be that we are pushing in international forums to get solutions internationally that tackle these challenges. To tell the truth, not only can Denmark solve the world's climate challenges, but we can put our lot in the balance and we can press for binding international agreements to tackle this problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906192609	Sir. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906192611	Thank you. We heard a lot in the Minister's speech about people having to pay less in housing tax. But now I have heard the Minister for Finance's answer to a number of questions, which is why I will try to refresh it. Is it true that the Minister of Finance cannot guarantee that the model of a new property valuation system that the government intends to put forward will not guarantee that people will not pay more in housing tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906192639	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906192641	I cannot guarantee that an individual in a property will not pay more in housing tax. And frankly, it amazes me to hear this discussion. Is that something Social Democracy can guarantee? I should like to note that when we hear what the Social Democratic Party imagines about these property assessments. For that is a starting point that we would very much like to maintain, that is, that the Socialists will help to ensure that no homeowners in this country pay any more. An interesting point of view, I must say.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906192713	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906192714	[Sound emission]... Left and government present a proposal where the housing tax stop is over, that there are homeowners who will pay more in housing tax. I also think it would be honest with the landowners in Denmark if the Minister for Finance could give us a figure today on how many homeowners it is that will pay more in housing tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906192733	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906192734	That's one of the things I can't say. Well, now we're setting up a new property assessment system, and then we're gonna have the discussion from there. I am amazed at the hypocrisy of the Social Democrats today that this really is the line they are pursuing that they want to guarantee anything. However, it is noted and I will return to the questioner on that matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906192805	Mrs Astrid Krag, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906192808	I think I will have to pursue that a little bit, even though I was actually going to talk about the poor pensioners and their housing benefits, but what the Minister is saying now is just a little too interesting to let risk. For in the past we could understand from the Minister that the government is in fact very close to being able to put forward a new system of property valuation; that was the Minister's reply to Mr. Nicolai Wammen. Now the Minister is saying that it is not possible to get closer to how many homeowners are at risk of having to pay more in housing tax. So is it close to having something finished by the government that we can sit around a negotiating table with, or is it not? And if so, why can the Minister not answer the rather simple question more clearly? That is actually quite worrying.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906192849	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906192850	I now ask the questioner to acknowledge that I am not the tax minister. I'm not the one with these things. So I thank you for the confidence that I know everything, but unfortunately I must disappoint the questioner. I just mean for the sake of objectivity: let us now see the system, then the government presents its proposals on how to solve that problem and we should not pay any more in property tax. But when the Socialists drive it out in the consequence that no one has to pay any more, it is at least just a guarantee that I do not.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906192933	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906192934	Well, I am sorry if the Minister for Finance suddenly feels downgraded to the Minister for Taxation, but now it is the government's proposal for a property assessment system, and a finance minister has something to say in a government. So in all my naivety I thought perhaps the Minister of Finance had taken a little bit of advice, and I wonder if he is, after all. It is, in fact, just the errand we are on here today, namely to get the Minister of Finance to put a punch on the bag, to give us some idea of what lies ahead, because this is not a tiny thing. This is a question of basic security for homeowners, just as at another time we have to discuss the basic security of pensioners, about a quarter of all pensioners who receive the housing allowance, which now has to be thrown back into a huge insecurity. In fact, I do not think it is quite serious that the Minister for Finance is trying to hide himself from not being a tax minister. In other words, is the Minister of Finance not involved in the preparation of proposals for the new property assessment system to be negotiated by the parties of the Folketing? Then why does he not want to share some of the knowledge he has with us when we are quite calmly asking about this in the Parliamentary Chamber today?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906193037	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906193038	For the government, it is absolutely essential to provide security for the property owners. That is the overall objective we have, with the new property assessment system and then our proposal to resolve it. There should be no doubt that we take this problem extremely seriously, and I just think that I can trace the activity that the Social Democratic Party has had today, that they consider it more like such a teasing that you can use in a debate and feel that now you really have got air under your wings. But believe me, this is a complicated issue and we will soon be presenting a proposal, we will soon be presenting our solution to it, and the whole idea is to ensure the security of homeowners about their future taxation. It will be taxation that we see from 2021 when the new property assessment system then comes into force. So trust me, we're gonna have some discussions about this, and I apologize for betraying the trust of the questioner, knowing that I can't just answer how many one and how many the other.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906193156	Sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906193159	After all, the Minister of Finance and the government are working on growth in the public sector of 0.5%. Towards 2025. Can the Minister of Finance not confirm that the money allocated is not even enough to cover the costs of the increasing number of elderly people, that welfare is therefore underfunded up to 2025 and that it is therefore the case that if you have to find the costs of the increasing number of elderly people, then you will have to take the money from other welfare areas and thus reduce the service on other parts of the welfare?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906193237	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906193238	No, I can't. The calculations that lie are, of course, technical calculations about the challenge, but it is the case that, of course, there can be more efficiency in the public sector, of course we can do things better, of course we can do more. Take the health care. This is a brilliant example of efficiency every year, I believe, of 2.5%, which means that more people are now coming through, that more people are now being treated outpatients who were previously hospitalized, and that is how we can constantly improve the systems so that we can get more for the same money. That's why you can't just say there's such a one-to-one connection in this. Of course we can solve it, and of course we have to solve it, just as we have done so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906193328	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906193329	I think that health care is an exceptionally bad example. In my view, health care is the new SKAT, understood in the sense that you are saving health care to pieces, as you have saved SKAT to pieces for more than 10 years. We have seen how one order is given after another, because the employees simply cannot carry out the tasks they are entrusted with because they simply run stronger and stronger, but cannot make things stick together. So I think that is a very, very bad example of efficiency. Of course, the public sector needs to be made more efficient. But that doesn't change the fact that when the government wants to dedicate 0.5%. For growth in the public sector, it is less than what is needed just to meet the costs that come when there is an ageing population and an increasing number of older people. The Minister of Finance must be able to confirm that. This is clear from the Finance Minister's own plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906193420	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906193421	I cannot confirm this, because we have set aside money for increasing public spending and, on the one hand, we are operating with it, as the previous government has done, that we can make it more efficient and thus get more money. And then, frankly, I think, sir. Rune Lund, that the mention of health workers is somewhat patronizing, that they manage a worse and worse system. They don't. More and more people are being treated and treated satisfactorily. So the picture that's being drawn, I don't really know what the purpose is. If there are problems with the working environment somewhere, then of course you have to deal with it and live by the instructions you receive in this regard. But to say that health care does not solve its tasks, I think is completely on the moon.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906193515	Sir. Kaare Dybvad, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906193517	I note that instead of answering the good questions that have come from my fellow party members, the Minister has complained that questions have been asked. So I hope that it will now suit the Minister that I am asking something a little different from this housing tax issue to which no answer has been given. However, I would just like to ask whether the Minister can confirm that it is planned to cancel most of the funds allocated to the Train Fund DK and to the projects which are intended to bind Denmark better together in terms of traffic.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906193547	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906193548	In other words, we had some discussions on the Train Fund DK here before the summer break and there we could not reach an agreement. We have then put forward a number of proposals in the Finance Act on some elements with electrification of some lines, etc., and with the funds now being provided by a greater scope and space for more capital investment, we are after all spending money to fill up the gap left by the previous government in the field of investment. Then, when we come after 2020, I would say that there is a wrong balance between all the billions placed on the railways, in relation to the funds for motorway sections and car traffic around. We would like the room for manoeuvre not only to be seized by railways, but to think of a Jutland motorway, that we thought of a motorway to Kalundborg, a port tunnel in Copenhagen, which we consider as important as being able to get 4 minutes faster to Aarhus.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906193702	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906193703	Although the Minister did not reply specifically to that, I nevertheless interpret it as saying that there are some of the projects for which no money will be set aside. But has the Minister heard the debate today, and has the Minister interpreted it in the same way as I have interpreted it, precisely that it has been said that we want to continue to allocate money to bind Denmark better together in terms of traffic, also in relation to railways?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906193725	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906193726	Well, I always listen to it, and I can reassure you that I am a democrat, so what a majority in this Parliament decides will, of course, be adopted. However, this should not stop me from telling you what I think, and I do not think that the room for manoeuvre that we are providing after 2020 should only be used for railways. I would very, very much like the road infrastructure to be resolved.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906193754	Sir. Troels Ravn, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906193755	Thank you. I would like to continue a little along the same lines around the Train Fund DK, because the Train Fund DK is important to balance Denmark. Can the Minister confirm that the government in the draft Finance Act looks at a large majority outside the government, as there is in fact agreement within the Conciliation Committee behind the Togfonden DK to implement all the projects in two stages?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906193824	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906193825	I do not really know whether the questioner is aware that the Left is not part of that conciliation, and that is why we are putting forward a financial bill which reflects the government's policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906193839	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906193841	But that is to ignore a large majority bypassing the government. So may I ask whether it is good practice for good governance to override a political majority in the Folketing, or is it perhaps an expression of disrespect and power arrogance on the part of the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906193902	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906193903	Well, I can't understand that question at all. Surely a government is allowed to present the policy that the government stands for. It is even our policy to respect the conciliation that we are entering into, but since we are not in that conciliation, there is no conciliation binding on the Left in this matter. When you ask if it is disrespect for the Folketing, I have to say no. I have just explained that we are, of course, democrats, so if there is a majority in this Parliament who wants something in a particular area, then we respect that, of course. We're not gonna make a coup d'état.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906193940	Mrs Karin Gaardsted, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906193944	Thank you. We'll stay on track, if I may say so. Can the Minister confirm that with the proposal to cancel projects in the Togfonden DK, which inter alia: will mean the end of the hour model, downgrades the opportunities for Danish families to settle in the outermost regions and at the same time work in cities without being dependent on two cars?
ParlaMint-DK_20160906194010	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906194012	I don't know, I think my teaching skills are exhausted in this area. It is not the case that we want to give priority only to rail traffic. Of course, investments must be made in the railways which make it modern and energy-efficient and environmentally friendly and climate-friendly, and that is why we are also proposing electrification of railways and the purchase of ellocomotives, etc. However, as I said before, we think that there is just as much need to expand a number of motorway sections. I understand that in Jutland there is a great deal of concern for the extension of the motorway network. In Kalundborg you are very interested in getting a motorway to Kalundborg. Here in Copenhagen we would like to have a port tunnel that can steer traffic around the inner city. We must then just say that we give different priority to the social democracy, which will only give priority to train driving.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906194118	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906194119	Now I don't know how much the Minister of Finance is running on trains. I have a little idea that it is not all around the world, but I would nevertheless like to ask one element of the agreement on the Train Fund DK, namely the decision on much better broadband and mobile coverage in the trains on the main lines. This absolutely necessary improvement lies in hibernation, one does not get out of the place. I would like to know whether the Minister of Finance can tell the frustrated rail passengers whether there is a solution in sight and whether money has been set aside for that task.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906194201	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906194202	I'm afraid I don't remember. But I think we have talked a lot about it, and I think that somehow we take care of that. I can see that, sir. Benny Engelbrecht knows better, so it's better to ask him.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906194215	Then I would like to thank the Minister for Finance and I hope that he has enjoyed his association with the President-in-Office of the Council. We'll go over to the second round, and there's Mr. Knox. Pelle Dragsted from the Enhedslisten asked for the floor as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906194245	Thank you. It was the Minister for Finance's comments on the energy agreement that brought me back to the floor in the first place. After all, the Minister of Finance is trying to leave behind the picture that among other things. The Enhedslisten and other parties in the energy reconciliation circle will not help to find funding to maintain the ambitions of the Energy Agreement, among others. on building coastal wind turbines and a number of other initiatives that the government will abandon. But that is not correct. This is nonsense, and the Minister of Finance knows it well. Because we have been in negotiations with the Minister for Finance for weeks before the summer holidays, and the Minister for Finance also knows very well that we have come constructively to those negotiations and have had a number of proposals. It is not true that the PSO is abolished per year. January 1. The European Union has said that we need to find a solution to some problems with the PSP before 1 January, and we need to come up with a new solution. It can be a customized PSP system, which also gives part of the PSP to some of the neighbouring countries that export electricity, in exchange for us also having the support schemes that they have, which could be other solutions, and we have discussed them constructively until the government decided that now we should not negotiate anymore. So it is just to completely deny the picture that we will spend money without finding funding, because I simply will not stand up to that. Now that I have taken the floor for another round here after a long day of debate, it is actually because I would like to take this opportunity to point out a number of other examples of untruths and misinformation that have influenced not only the debate here today but also the time after the launch of the overall plan, and I am actually a little concerned about the extent of the misinformation that has spread to the Danes. Because it is a fair thing that in here we disagree about who should have tax cuts, who should have less to live for, how much money we should spend on the SU etc., but what is not fair and what is not right is if you tie the Danes things on the sleeve that are not true and talk untrue about the consequences of your policy, and I think the Prime Minister has done that, and I think the Minister of Finance has done that, and I think the government has done that in these weeks, and let me just give some examples. It started with the Prime Minister leaving the impression on his famous facebook video that the tax cuts that were to be granted would not include the multimillionaire, but that is untrue. A Dane who earns 4 million. or 8 million kr., can look forward to a great tax relief, i.e. more than DKK 20,000. Then I have heard that it has been said here from the platform today that priority is given to the low-paid, because you spend 2 out of 3 kroner. on tax reductions to the low-paid. Yes, yes, but now there are also far fewer people who are low-paid than those who are highly paid, and who thus have to share the money you spend. So again it is an expression of manipulation and a distortion of reality, and the dry figures show that too. After all, we can see and it has also been presented today that a Dane who earns more than 1 million. kr., gets ten times as much tax relief as the cashier or the craftsman, and it is good that it is thought to be fair, and praise to the Liberal Alliance for being honest about their policy that it is value policy and that those who earn a lot should have more. But it would also suit the governing party to be honest about this and say things honestly. Let me give you another example. When you go to the government's new website, you can read that, as a result of the 2025 plan, a pensioner couple will increase their income by about DKK 300. But you've got to be kidding me. For pensioners, both the pensioners and the early retirement pensioners will have their income cut if the plan is adopted because the green base is cut away. Their tax will therefore be raised, and this also applies to early retirement, because their benefits will be reduced. Then the government has made some talmagic that if they give companies tax relief, they will lower prices, and then it will go in the future for pensioners anyway. But it is hope, and it is dreams, and it is forecasts for the future, and so as a national pensionist you cannot pay your rent or pay Christmas gifts to the grandchildren for that. So I would like to say again: be honest now, and tell them that it is early retirement that it is the pensioners and the unemployed who must have raised taxes in order to pay for tax cuts to those who earn the most. Then we hear about welfare and that we want to strengthen core welfare, and again we are talking about falsehoods. We can see from the government's own figures that the money spent on welfare is not even enough to keep up with what is called demographic pressure, that is to say, that there will be more elderly people, which means, of course, that the individual elderly will have fewer visits from the home helper and that there will be fewer teachers in kindergartens. Again, I would say, be honest. After all, it is an honest thing that we think that our welfare society should look different than it is today, but do not call it strengthening the welfare society. And I could sort of go on and give a number of other examples, but that doesn't allow time. However, okay, the fact that we have a government that is not honest about the consequences of their political proposals should not surprise us, because when the same government is sitting at all on government today, it is also because it was not honest before the elections. Because you made a series of promises to Danes, which you now break one by one. That's reality. Many people are talking about an election this autumn, and perhaps it would also be the right and the most honest. Because that would mean that the Danes were actually allowed to mark their mark on an enlightened basis, now that the Left has told everything they wouldn't tell before the election one year ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906194851	Thank you, sir. Pelle Dragsted. Nobody wants to ask questions. I would like to know if there are any more rapporteurs who would like to speak in the second round? Here you go, sir. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906194906	All I have to do is correct myself from my rapporteur's speech. I've come to say the wrong number. I came up on the platform with a wrong number, and if you can correct yourself in the same place where you have come to say something wrong, then it is a privilege that you have to use. I said, when I was on the platform, that if the tax policy of the Liberal Alliance is implemented, someone who earns 2 million. kr., still pay 16 times as much in tax as a person who earns 200,000 kr. That's a correct number. But I also said that, as the tax system is today, the person who earns 2 million is paying. kr., only 121⁄2 times as much as the person who earns 200,000 kr., i.e. in the current tax system. That was the wrong number. I had a wrong number up here. It happens to be 16 times as much. Whether it is the current system or the system proposed by the Liberal Alliance, then it is the case that the one who earns 2 million. kr., pays 16 times as much in income tax as the person earning 200,000 kr. All other figures were faultless.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906195015	Thank you, sir. Ole Birk Olesen. Are there any other rapporteurs who would like to speak on this matter? No. Then I have the pleasure and pleasure of giving the Minister of Finance the opportunity to take the floor if he wishes. He doesn't. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Financial Committee. As you know, this is also where the Minister of Finance rules. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906195051	The debate is open. I want to know if anyone wants to speak. I would, of course, first like to ask the rapporteurs whether anyone wishes to speak. No rapporteurs have volunteered. Does anyone else want to speak? Does the Minister of Finance wish to speak? It's easy to be president. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that this bill should also be referred to the Committee on Finance. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160906195150	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 4 October 2016, at 3 p.m. 12.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which is also shown on the Danish Parliament's website. I would like to thank everyone for their work in the service of the people's regime today.
