ParlaMint-DK_20160210130059	The meeting is open. From a member of the Folketing, Kaare Dybvad, who has been on leave, I have received notification that from 8 February 2016 he can again meet at the Tinget. Ole Hækkerup's duties as a temporary member of the Folketing ceased from that date. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Business and Growth (Troel Lund Poulsen): Bill no. L 116 (Proposal for a law amending the Law on seafarers' employment, maritime safety and various other laws). maritime construction projects, wreckage insurance, efficiency of the visual inspection activities in the diving sector, etc.) Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior (Karen Ellemann): Bill No. L 117 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Social Services. Minister for Transport and Building (Hans Christian Schmidt): Bill no. L 118 (Proposal for a law amending the law on road transport, the law on bus services and the law on taxi services, etc.) Peter Kofod Poulsen (DF) and others: Question No. F 20 (What can the Minister say about the government's position on video surveillance in public spaces in order to create security for citizens and facilitate the investigation of crimes, including terrorism, and will the government initiate state video surveillance of central locations in the country's cities?). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20160210130201	It sounded like the microphone just came on now. Now it's on. The second has also been recorded, so it will be all right. I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until 11 February 2016. I should like to say, in relation to this urgent question, which lasts two hours, that I think we should make every effort to make it work, so that when the next rapporteur comes here, I say the name, and I would very much like the rapporteur to go up to the rapporteur's table, because it actually saves a little time, and it also saves a great deal of time if I do not always have to say that the speaking time has been exceeded. So here you go to the first rapporteur for the questioners, Mrs Ulla Sandbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210130303	Thank you very much. Today, the Liberal Alliance and the Alternative have called for an urgent request for the withdrawal of foreign students' residence permits, as a result of a period of work exceeding the permitted hours. Recently, there have been cases that have shown a clear problem with practice in the decision of cases where students have worked more than the permitted number of hours. In these cases, students have been deported on the grounds that they are not students, but instead are here to work, despite the fact that they have clearly prioritised and performed excellently in their studies. They have even paid a fine and have complied with the law after having made known their infringement. The expulsions result from the fact that the workers of the Aliens Act state that exceeding the permitted working time creates a presumption that the purpose of the stay is not to study but to work. It cannot be the intention to automatically expel students on the sole assumption, and this seems quite unreasonable. The Minister has indicated that she will look at a rethink of the arrangements. For the time being, two young men who fall within the group of young people that the Minister would like to attract have been expelled and more may be in danger of following. It is therefore urgent to have a statement from the Minister which can serve as a preliminary guideline for future practice to determine whether it is really a student, even if the 15-hour rule for work is exceeded. We are therefore pleased that there has been support in the Folketing for this urgent request so that we can have a thorough debate and hopefully a broad indication that this practice should change. I look forward to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210130511	Thank you. Then there is a reply from the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210130524	The government is very concerned that we in Denmark should be able to attract skilled students and workers. We want a Denmark for those who can and will. It is quite clear to the government that foreign students who receive a Danish education have a great potential to contribute to growth and welfare through employment by Danish companies. Foreign students can contribute new knowledge in foreign markets and culture, such as: helps to strengthen Danish export opportunities. At a time when companies are beginning to experience an increasing shortage of skilled labour, it is of great value to our companies that they have access to recruit well-educated foreigners who already know about the Danish culture. Denmark must be an attractive country for skilled foreign students coming here. The question today has its origins in some specific cases, which have been much discussed in the press. It is the International Recruitment and Integration Agency which takes the decision at first instance in matters relating to residence permits for training purposes, including inclusion cases. The decision of the Board may be appealed against to the Foreigners' Board, which is an independent, expert court-like body whose decisions are final within the administrative system. I am therefore unable, as a minister, to mention and comment on specific matters. That is why I am not going to comment today on the decision of the Board on the specific cases which have given rise to today's question debate. Having said that, I am, of course, open to a general discussion on whether the rules for the inclusion of residence permits should be more flexible. The current rules are as they are, because in 2010 there was a political majority who wanted to strike down students who were working illegally. Five years later, when there is a political desire to look at the rules, I am, of course, ready to do so. The government is therefore prepared to make a move to change the rules for the inclusion of student residence permits so that they become more flexible. At the same time, however, I would like to stress that it is the government's position in principle that there should be a limit to how much work as a foreigner must be done alongside its study. Foreigners must comply with the conditions for their residence permit and we must ensure that foreign students are in Denmark to study and not to work. The flexibility of the rules can be achieved in several ways, each of which has both advantages and disadvantages built into it, and I would very much like to ensure a solution that also has a real balance. The rules must be transparent for foreigners and employers, they must not become too bureaucratic, and they must not lead to a shortcut to unskilled work in Denmark. In other words, we need to think very carefully about this matter. Although it is not possible for me to comment on the specific cases of foreign students who have been working illegally, I would like to note that the media can see that the decisions that have been made in the media recently are based on some violations of a slightly older date. Since 2015, the number of hours that you as a foreign student have to work next to your study has been raised from the previous 15 hours to 20 hours a week. Similarly, the inventory has changed from weekly to monthly averages. In other words, the framework of legal work alongside studies for foreign students has already become more flexible. As I said, I am also willing to change the rules of involvement. If I turn to the current legislation and practice, the reason for the time-limited work permit is that foreign students must stay in Denmark for the primary purpose of studying. At the same time, the foreign student has access to supplement his funds for self-reliance with a part-time job, just like Danish students have. As mentioned above, the rules on withdrawal of residence permits were last amended in 2010. The political desire arose, among other things. of a concrete control effort in relation to students in the western region of Copenhagen, where 214 foreign students were charged with illegal work. The police cases were typically closed with a minor fine. The current Foreign Service examined all cases, and the result was that out of 162 cases where foreign residence permits were still in force, only 17 cases were eligible for withdrawal of permits due to a lack of study activity. In the remaining cases, residence permits could not be withdrawn. At that time, there was no right to withdraw a residence permit if the foreign student had been fined for illegal work and was also active in the field of studies. With the 2010 legislation, the rules were changed. A legal basis was introduced to withdraw the student's residence permit if the student had been working illegally. In practice, the inclusion would normally take place in cases where the alien has been fined for illegal work. Foreign students are typically fined on the basis of a police report submitted by the Agency for International Recruitment and Integration. However, involvement can already take place according to the rules if the foreign student has acknowledged to have worked illegally before the Agency for International Recruitment and Integration. The Foreigners' Board has published anonymised decisions on the withdrawal or refusal of extension of residence permits on its website. The starting point for the mentioned practice is that a foreign student's residence permit may be withdrawn if the student has worked contrary to the work permit. To conclude, I would like to stress that I am of the clear opinion that we must ensure that the rules are balanced, taking account of the foreign student and taking into account the fact that it must be ensured that the foreign student is primarily here to study and not to work. However, I would like to reiterate that the government is prepared to make a move to change the rules for the inclusion of residence permits in order to make them more flexible.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210131253	Thank you, Minister. And then we go to the debate, and that is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mrs Ulla Sandbæk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210131257	Thank you. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. We are well aware that we cannot deal with these two matters, but perhaps just a little. In any case, it is two students who have made this urgent request highly topical. The two students have both achieved top marks and fully comply with the Minister's statement, both today and in the reply given by the Minister to Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen, that the government would like to attract skilled foreign students and workers. This question does not in any way call into question the fact that there must of course be an upper limit on how much foreign students can work, that there must be conditions for the residence permit and that there must be consequences of breaking the law. But the question is whether the consequences must necessarily be automatic expulsion, because that is what has been the case with the two young students whose expulsions are discussed in detail in the daily press. One has subsequently got a job in Denmark and can now legally return, so his case has had a happy outcome. But the other is now staying in Portugal with his wife and a 3-year-old child who was being treated at Hvidovre Hospital because he has a gene defect which means that he cannot break down lactose. That is why he is referred to a special diet which is inaccessible in Nepal, from which the family comes. The problem has arisen because the workers of the Aliens Act state that exceeding the permitted working time creates a presumption that the purpose of the stay is not to study, but to work a presumption and one could thus believe that this presumption could be refuted, by simply proving that he or she has passed all the examinations during the period during which the working time passed, and by providing evidence that he or she has met the teaching hours during the semester. However, the student has not been given the opportunity at all to deny the presumption of being an employee because the practice has been that he or she has been automatically expelled as soon as working hours have been exceeded. It is also stated in the preparatory work that, when working hours are exceeded, the study and work permits should normally be included, and this has been done in all cases and automatically. As I said, I do not disagree with the Minister's reply. However, while rethinking legislation in this area, the Minister can make it relatively easy to state that the legislation must be understood in such a way that, as the legislation already stands, it is based on certain criteria in the form of evidence that it is a matter of study and not of work, it is possible to refrain from the automatic inclusion and ordering of broadcasting. The existing rules are not unreasonable if, on the basis of certain criteria, real access is created to refute the presumption of work intent. Such criteria can be simple and do not have to leave the possibility of abuse. They can be managed with ease and correct a practice that is undesirable by virtually all parties in the Folketing. I look forward to a good debate and look forward to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210131657	Thank you to Mrs Ulla Sandbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210131700	I should also like to read out the proposal for adoption. President Yes!). Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the Government will propose to change the rules for the withdrawal of residence permits so that they become more flexible, thus only serious infringements will result in withdrawal without prior warning in first-time cases. • V 22.)
ParlaMint-DK_20160210131722	Thank you. Who has tabled the proposal for adoption should also be read out.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210131727	It's sir. Marcus Knuth, who made the final formulation. Yeah, but we're gonna have the parties. It is more for the sake of the book). Yeah. It is on behalf of ALT, S, V, EL, LA, RV, SF and KF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210131746	Thank you. Then we move on to Mr. Mattia Tesfaye, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210131758	Thank you. Nearly a month ago, I received a request from a citizen of the West. She told the story of a friend who was educated at a Danish university this summer but who had just been expelled. I was then in contact with the deportee who told me that he had worked in a kitchen alongside the studies. When his boss sometimes asked if he could take some extra hours, he wouldn't say no. In this way he ended up exceeding the then limit of a maximum of 15 hours of work per week. He contacted the authorities himself and paid the fine and then ceased to listen to the case. But when his temporary residence permit expired and he applied for permanent residence, he was refused and told to leave the country. We in the Socialist Group do not think that is fair. We would therefore like to thank the Alternative and Liberal Alliance for having called this question. At the same time, I am a member of the 3F and am deeply opposed to social dumping. In my own industry, East Europeans are most often paid under the agreement, but in other sectors there are problems with foreign students enrolled in Danish universities but actually went to Denmark to work. It is not so many months ago that 3F's trade paper revealed how Chinese students worked around the Copenhagen sushi industry, thereby undermining the possibilities of signing an agreement and ensuring proper and Danish pay and working conditions in this industry. It is against the background of such examples that we have the current rules that foreign students must work a maximum of 20 hours a week, except in June, July and August, where they must work full time. The number of hours was increased from 15 to 20 in connection with the agreement on international recruitment from June 2014 with entry into force from 1 January 2015, i.e. while we had a social democratic government. In the same agreement it was decided that the hourly rate should be calculated on an average of monthly basis. Against this background, some 300 students are shown each year. According to the Minister's answer to my question 348, which I received yesterday, the Agency for International Recruitment and Integration makes a concrete estimate in each case, and for the purposes of the processing, the Board has no circulars, administrative regulations or the like, but the proceedings are carried out on the basis of the wording of the law itself and of the preparatory work to the law. The Social Democrats are thus satisfied with the intentions of the current legislation, but we believe that it is administered a little too restrictively when, according to the Minister's reply, it is all students who are expelled on the basis of violation of the law, except those described in section 26 of the Aliens Act, which among other things. stresses the student's health and whether he or she is likely to be harmed by asylum in his or her country of origin. This doesn't exclude the person I was in contact with, just as it doesn't exempt the superstudent Marius from Herning. It would have been more reasonable if they could pay the fine and received a warning for first-time cases but were not immediately expelled. That is why we are prepared for amendments, if necessary amendments to legislation. For the Socialists, however, it is crucial that we do not at the same time risk opening up to more social dumping. We are therefore pleased that we have succeeded in reaching agreement with the rest of the Danish People's Party, with the exception of the Danish People's Party, on a proposal for adoption which balances both of these views. We are pleased that it can gather broad support in the Danish Parliament, and I would like to encourage the Danish People's Party to consider whether it was not for them as well. We look forward to the discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210132125	Thank you, sir. Mattias Tesfaye. Thank you. Then it's mr. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210132131	Thank you for the floor. On a regular basis, individual cases appear in the media, where you immediately think that it is too wrong and that you should be able to do something on the part of Christiansborg. But then you have to take a step back and think about why we have the rules that we have. There's a good explanation. There's actually a couple of good explanations. The explanation is that when a foreigner obtains a residence permit, a number of conditions are attached to the residence permit. Each foreigner is actually entering into an agreement with the state, with the government, and if the agreement is broken and the conditions are not complied with, then of course it has consequences. That should, of course, be the starting point. Otherwise, there is no reason why we should attach some conditions to the residence permit itself. The explanation is also that in the past there has been extensive cheating with residence permits in the field of study, which is why the Danish Parliament has previously been in favour of tightening up the area in order to get rid of some of this extensive cheating. In this way, I can also say that the Danish People's Party basically supports the current set of rules in this area, also because we would like to see the opportunity not again opened up to cheat in this area. In addition, it is perhaps the best explanation that in the last five years Denmark has received approx. Eighty thousand foreign students from outside the EU, and on top of that comes students from EU countries. Then you add it all together within just a five-year period, we have received over 100,000 foreign students. That is a lot of people, and if we are to have a fairly good chance of getting all these foreign students under control, we need to have clear rules and clear guidelines and we need to enforce the rules. Therefore, the Danish People's Party is sceptical about making general concessions in the field of foreigners on the basis of individual cases, and this is basically what several parties are proposing today. Unfortunately, there is a tendency for the Folketing to make legislation that is not always well thought out, on the basis of individual cases, and that may well be what ends up being the result on the basis of the proposal for adoption put forward by a number of parties today. The Danish People's Party would like to warn against this, even if it is a matter of cases where I understand that you have sympathy for the people it is about. This debate also seems to me to represent a strange priority for the tasks in the field of foreigners, while at the same time the proportion of immigrants and descendants is increasing dramatically, with the result that Denmark slowly becomes a little less Danish, that we lose Denmark as a linguistic and cultural entity, thereby compromising cohesion. It is also thought-provoking that the individual case which basically forms the basis of the debate seems to have found its own solution in that the person concerned has been resident under another paragraph of the Aliens Act. All in all, the Danish People's Party wishes to maintain the current rules in this area, but as we have also said before, we are open to discussing whether a new and special right of appeal can be granted directly to the Minister. You've had that before. It has functioned as a kind of valve in the alien system, so in those cases where you think if you could not do anything here, the Minister has actually had the opportunity to intervene in the past and say that here we can make an exception, we can nevertheless allow the person to stay in Denmark, or the Minister has been able to tell someone to look at the matter a second time. This kind of flexibility in the system is very good. Then we also avoid making general concessions in the field of foreigners on the basis of individual cases, and we must always be careful about that. That, I think, should be the comments from that point of view. And then the Danish People's Party also has a proposal for adoption, which I would like to read out: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament calls on the government to introduce a right of appeal in the field of foreigners, so that in very special and few cases the Minister can change decisions if certain conditions are met. The rules for foreign students must continue to ensure that there are consequences if a foreigner breaks the conditions attached to the residence permit. • V 23).
ParlaMint-DK_20160210132528	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The proposal for adoption is part of the further debate. Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210132539	Thank you. Today, the Liberal Alliance and the Alternative have submitted this urgent request to the government in the light of recent cases concerning students who have been granted a residence permit. Student residence permits may be withdrawn if the foreign student does not comply with the rules governing the amount of work to be done in addition to the study he is enrolled in. Let that be said straight away: of course, the Left would like to help to see how we can make the rules more flexible so that it becomes more transparent both for the foreign student and for the Danish employers. But it must be a balanced change in the rules so that we both turn down the bureaucracy and ensure that a residence permit is not just a one-way ticket to unskilled work in Denmark. We have previously experienced before the rules were tightened in 2010, that several foreign students had a pro forma study and spent too much time working in Denmark instead of studying in Denmark. At that time, we chose to give legal authority to withdraw a residence permit in the event that a foreign student had been fined for illegal work and was considered to be an active student. That was five years ago. Everyday life is changing and, of course, the political majority is doing so, and that is why, of course, the Left is ready to look again at the rules if there is a desire to do so. However, I would like to make it clear that it is still the starting point of the Left that there must and must be a limit to how much work can be done as a foreigner alongside his study. There must be a clear balance between the fact that Denmark remains an attractive country to study in and that, at the same time, we ensure that we are not naive and open to the use of the rules. The Left therefore supports the text here on more flexible rules in this area, but the rules must of course be balanced so that we do not open up the way for exploitation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210132740	Thank you, sir. Marcus Knuth. Then it is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten. It's going fantastic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210132748	Thank you. After all, we have seen some cases in the press that I think most people regard as foolish. In fact, when the two cases came forward, the government announced that it wanted to look at changing the rules. And I understand that, with the exception of the Danish People's Party, the consensus in the Parliamentary Chamber is still here. So it is a good thing that we are now getting confirmation of what we already knew, namely that it would be very sensible to have less bureaucratic rules. If I could start somewhere else like this, I would say that in the Enhedslisten, we generally believe that immigration policy is too strict, not least in the area of refugees. I think it is very unhappy that, for example, we should do so. has made it harder for refugees to have family reunification with their children. I also find it sad that we see so many examples of Danish citizens who are not actually allowed to live here in Denmark with their spouse. At the same time, we in Denmark feel that we do not just have open borders, we do not just have free immigration. It is not the case that everyone can just come to Denmark to study; it is not the case that everyone can just come to Denmark to work and that is kind of sensible. If we want to stick to the point of being able to provide protection for refugees, and I think we should do that more than we do today, and if we want to stick to the fact that we should give Danish citizens the right to live with their spouse, I would like to do that more than today, yes, then it makes sense to say that, moreover, there are limits to labour migration. We cannot just say that anyone who wants to come to Denmark to work or study can come. That is why we have among other things. some rules that say that you have to live up to some conditions if you want to read in Denmark. For example, you have to. max work 20 hours a week. That's smart. This is about exactly what Mr. Mattias Tesfaye told us about in the platform: combating social dumping, fighting cheating. Well, it's no use having employers think: well, that's clever, then you can pull in some labor, sign it up some studio and then make social dumping along that path. So it makes sense for there to be rules as to how much work you have to do when you study. But there is also some doubt that the examples we have seen in the press here are examples of the fact that the rules are far too bureaucratic. Well, it's obviously crazy that there are some young people who do their studies and do everything they have to do, and then they're told: Hey, you've worked a little too much. They pay their fine, they think the case is out of the world, and then they get deported. This is so crazy, and fortunately everyone except the Danish People's Party can see it as well. That's good. It is a good thing that the rules are now being changed. I would just like to say that the debate has mentioned the fact that they are super students, their twelve figures have been highlighted. For me, that is not what matters. Well, it's not like if they had worked more than the 15 or 20 hours, but then they would have gotten 7s instead of 12s that I'd thought it was fair to throw them out. Well, that superstudent argument isn't what matters to me. What is crucial is that there are rules here that are administered far too bureaucratic. This has had quite unreasonable consequences for some young people, and no one can benefit from that. Fortunately, then, there is a majority who wants to change the rules. I think it's okay that if you break the rules, there's some kind of consequence... it could be a fine. But when the fine is paid, you should not lose the residence permit, unless there is some deliberate and systematic abuse. So it can be said that in this debate we have confirmed what we knew, namely that a majority will help to make the rules about that, I think that is a good thing. Unfortunately, one can say, it does not have any consequences for the people who have already suffered. I understand that one of them has found another solution. It is to be hoped that the other person on whom this debate is based will also find a way back.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210133201	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210133213	Thank you. In the Liberal Alliance, we think Denmark should be an attractive country for people who want to come and contribute and make a living and who comply with the laws of the country and do not oppose the rule of the people. On the other hand, we think that Denmark should be an unattractive country for those who come to the contrary: people who commit crime, people who oppose the rule of the people and people who cannot support themselves. But we are currently living with some incredibly strange dilemmas. We hear about cases with people who commit violent crime and who are not expelled from Denmark, do not send out from Denmark, while at the same time skilled students who can become a good labour force can become good citizens of Denmark, are shown for details. It is quite inversely so. It makes no sense at all to have an alien policy that helps those who do not want to be part of Danish society and who are hard on those who want to be part of Danish society. We need to change that and that is why we, together with the alternative, have taken the initiative on this urgent question. It is then only one half, as Mr. Martin Henriksen was aware of what we are dealing with here, but that does not mean that we do not, together with Mr Martin Henriksen, agree with him. Martin Henriksen and others would also like to address the other half. As far as the Liberal Alliance is concerned, we would prefer that there were only some rules that said that if you are a student and do your studies, you pass your exams, the state should not interfere in how much you work next door. Maybe it's smart for a month that you only work 10 hours because there's a lot in the studio. There is a summer vacation, and there it may be that you want to work hard both with 37 hours and much more than that, if that is what you want, so you can finance life also in those months when you have to study more and therefore can work less. So we really think that one of the important things about this is that we get flexibility in terms of how we do it. Then we will have to see how far the agreement goes when we get there. I am, of course, very pleased that the Minister will take the initiative to try to get the flexibility into the system that makes it impossible to deport people who are, in fact, a resource for Danish society for details. So it can be said that we have now come to the point where we know that what we agree on needs to be done and that the government will take an initiative. But there will also be some discussions on how that should happen when it comes to doing so. And then it will certainly be our approach that we try to see that we check whether people are studying. Of course, those who cheat the system should not be able to do so. At the same time, however, we must ensure that the rules do not become so rigid that it is impossible for those who actually want to work alongside a study, thereby helping to finance themselves and, moreover, also help to finance a number of the transfer income that other people receive in this society. In general, I do not think one should be so frightened that there are people who would like to come to Denmark and help finance their own lives. Perhaps you should be more startled about the opposite. Then there are the specific cases which have also been the starting point for us to put the urgent question. Everyone has talked about the fact that the case it started with has been found a happy solution in which, of course, we are pleased. I also think it would be nice if, in some way, a solution could be found in the other case if, in fact, what the Minister is talking about is that it is earlier rules that have been in force. Then you could go into it and see if it is really right that people should be affected by rules that the Folketing has already changed. We'll have to take that with the minister later, perhaps when she goes to the speaking chair of the Folketing. But, of course, we are pleased that the government will take the initiative to do something about the rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210133644	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210133647	Thank you. I understand that the other parties agree that residence permits can only be withdrawn for serious infringements of the conditions attached to the residence permits. How serious must an infringement be before it has consequences in relation to the withdrawal of a residence permit from a foreign student in this case? That would be very nice to know.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210133709	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210133710	My starting point is that if there is a deliberate abuse of some rules, because you really do not want to study, then it is clear that there have been some very different intentions from what the legislation has allowed. But if you are working somewhere and have been asked to serve a little extra, because it was a nice party and the party is going to last a little longer and you have then suddenly worked too long over a month, then I think it is just stiff enough to be expelled. I hope so too, sir. Martin Henriksen thinks so, and I think I have even read that Mr. Martin Henriksens thinks. Because it is quite foolish for talented people to be deported against that background.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210133747	Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210133748	Yeah, but I don't know the individual cases in detail. I don't think everyone in here does either. That is the problem, that is to say, the individual cases come up in the media and then you start to make legislation on the basis of individual cases where you do not know all the details. I think that is a problem at all because it has implications for a number of other matters which have never been discussed in the media nor have they been discussed in this Chamber. And that's why we're doing a little single-case treatment here. After all, we in the Danish People's Party would like to roll back the system so as to reinstate the special right of appeal to the Minister, as there was in the past, so that there were stricter rules in this area, but that there was a possibility of taking some other decisions in very specific cases. But Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll still needs to be told how serious an infringement must be before the residence permit is withdrawn. It is a little strange to have rules attached to a residence permit, but then not to enforce them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210133839	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210133840	In fact, I tried to answer that question in the first place, to the best of my ability and with the greatest goodwill, by saying that, if there is deliberate abuse of the rules, we do not of course think that we should be allowed to maintain our residence permit. But if it is a question of people, for example. I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he has made a mistake or whether it is an employer who has said that there is a need for the person concerned to be 2 hours at the end of the month, so we think that it is too rigid a system if it results in people being deprived of their residence permit. So that is just the flexibility we want. And then we just think that we should start with people and not in systems.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210133921	Thank you for that, thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210133923	Thank you. Rules must generally be understood to make sense. I think that might be the main point of this case. We may disagree on a great many things, but we must be able to explain it, and we cannot get meaninglessness into some rigid bureaucracy. All the cases we've heard about in this area don't make sense. It is actually people who have paid We have also, by a broad majority in the Folketing, adopted a common policy to attract more foreign students who can pay for their studies in Denmark. So it's pointless that we throw them out as soon as they've worked two hours too much. I am very pleased that the Minister has the goodwill to the kind of goodwill that comes from 90 mandates. It's really good to see, and in general, there's just support that we can change this when it doesn't make sense. I look forward to that, and of course we fully support it in the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210134115	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210134126	Thank you. In SF, we are pleased that this urgent request has been made because it highlights an important problem. We are equally pleased with the Minister's statement that the government is ready to look at the rules for the inclusion of residence permits. In recent months there have been examples that the rules can be so square that they affect ordinary people who are only in Denmark to make a positive difference for Danish society. We have seen this very much in the case of, for example, Marius, who was an active part of the community, caring for his school, doing his job, being active in the volunteer and immediately paying his fine when he got to work too much. The four-way rules we think are not fair and we think it is good and proper that both a majority in the Folketing and the government now say that they want to look at the rules. As it seems that there is a consensus in the Folketing that these rules should be more flexible and less bureaucratic, but without opening up to social dumping, I would like to sign and, as such, leave it at that, because we believe that we should attract more foreign students who want a positive difference for Denmark and not scare them away.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210134240	Thank you to the rapporteur. That's right, sir. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party, for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210134245	Thank you. I can't help but ask you if Mr. Knox... Jacob Mark is aware that this person is now back in the case of individual treatment here in the Parliamentary Chamber, as Mr. In fact, as I have been informed in the media, Jacob Mark mentions a residence permit in Denmark, and that is why the reason for the question debate has so far fallen away, because the person who has been the subject of the debate and helped to raise the debate has already been granted a residence permit under another paragraph of the alien law. So why does Mr. Jacob Mark that as a problem if the problem is solved?
ParlaMint-DK_20160210134312	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210134313	The problem has not been solved. I think it is fantastic that they have come back and can come under another paragraph, but it shows precisely the need to look at these rules. I have heard the government want that too, because that should not have been the case from the start. It's a waste of that human being's life, and it's a shame for that human being that he's had to go through this, and now it turns out that he's coming back anyway. This shows precisely that we need to look through it so that other people do not face the same problems as him.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210134343	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210134346	I have another question. I think that Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll had a little trouble answering that, perhaps Mr. Jacob Mark can answer that. I understand that the SF is also in favour of some rules in this area. It is felt so well that in some specific cases the rules can be violated and that it is only in the case of serious infringements of the rules that residence permits should be withdrawn. How gross does SF think a violation of the rules should be before withdrawing the residence permit? And sir... Jacob Mark doesn't see that you're going to ask the government to make some concessions in this area... then you can think whether there should be any relief or not... where not even sir. Jacob Mark has an overview of what this really means, and should we not have it as a politician?
ParlaMint-DK_20160210134424	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210134425	What I have said is that we have had some rules, we can see that there have been so square that they create some situations that are obviously not good for Denmark because we are throwing out some foreign students who want the Danish society. So exactly what the rules should look like, I simply do not have the competence to say. However, what I have heard in the debate, and with which I am very much in agreement, is that when you make an infringement which is obviously not very large and you pay your fine, and everyone can see that this was not in any bad sense, it does not make sense to expel the person immediately. So giving equal opportunities for investigating the matter could be our starting point in such a discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210134502	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Ulla Sandbæk, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210134505	Thank you very much. Can the rapporteur confirm that this was not just one student who has now got a job in Denmark, but two students, the last of whom comes from Nepal? Hans home is in ruins, he has nothing to return to. He also has a 3-year-old son who suffers from lactose allergy. He cannot move that back to Nepal with, whether there was a house or a family or any chance of a job in Nepal. So there is a very, very acute problem for student no. 2 which is currently in Portugal and is waiting for him to resume his case. It is because this matter has to be resumed, among other things, that I have asked for an urgent question, so that some guidelines can be given here on how he might have been given a different decision than having been expelled.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210134555	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210134556	That can confirm with the reservation that I am not as much in the personal matter as Mrs Ulla Sandbæk is. I also think that this is a terrible situation, and that is precisely why I also said to Mr Beazley. Martin Henriksen, that we need to change these rules or at least look at them so that people in the future do not get into the same unfortunate and unhappy situation. Well, I was also very much in agreement with Mrs Johanne-Schmidt-Nielsen, who said that this is not just something we have to change, because we have seen that some superstudents have been thrown out. We have to change it both for the weak and for the strong, because these rules seem to have been too square.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210134630	Mrs. Ulla Sandbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210134631	Thank you very much. But then the rapporteur can also confirm that this question is actually justified because it is a question of two students.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210134638	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210134640	As I also started by saying in my speech, we think that this question is very good, because it comes precisely on the basis of cases which are quite obviously unfair and one of which is still unsolved.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210134652	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210134659	Thank you. As one who grew up in and lives and lives in Production Denmark, one finds out how important it is that we have the skilled labour that is needed. Also, places where people do not necessarily flock as in the large educational institutions and in the large cities they need to be able to get labour. When I meet business people, including local business people, the debate will be very quick to focus on how we ensure that the qualified workforce for our businesses is brought to our country. Frustration becomes great, of course, when you have discussions with them about such examples as we have seen in the press, which seem foolish and which a blind man can probably follow with a stick simply nowhere holds. If at the same time you see too many people who are also in our country who commit crime and in every way show that they do not want to be here but are allowed to stay here, then I share that frustration. But I do agree very much with the basic substance of some of what Martin Henriksen said, namely that it is always a matter of concern when we legislate on a case-by-case basis. How exactly do we legislate in the Folketing? How many individual cases will it take before we enter into legislation? Now we are raising a matter here with a background in some cases, and then I hope that we will end up in a place where we will generally have a new agreement that will allow us to make it a little more flexible. Having said that, we have seen the approach that, as a general rule, we do not think that this law is entirely up to date. In fact, far along the way, we think that there is a lot of common sense in that • that is also what I heard from the Minister's introductory remarks, if I heard correctly. In fact, we are very much in agreement with that. However, we are looking to see if it can be made more flexible. Part of it could be for us to look at that set of rules, also to give the Minister a special opportunity to intervene if there are some very special cases. However, we are in favour of looking at the regulatory framework in general. We want those who want Denmark and who can contribute to it to be able to do so, but to stand by and say that the current legislation is quite up to date, we do not think it is in any way the case, and there we just have to find the right balance. What is very close to my heart is the question of whether our companies will have the manpower they need, that they will have a well-qualified workforce and that those who do not want our society will find another place to spend their time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210135002	Then it's mr. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210135005	Thank you and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I understand from the Conservatives that at least you are not opposed to the idea of a special right of appeal by the Danish People's Party from the Minister, as there has been in the past. I even think that your party colleague Erik Ninn-Hansen had one in the 1980s, and there was some discussion in this regard, namely...
ParlaMint-DK_20160210135024	I'm gonna have to tell mr. Mattia Tesfaye ▪ I have said it sometimes during previous debates that you do not use direct indictments. You turn to the third person in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210135033	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen's party colleague Erik Ninn-Hansen had one in the 1980s. There was a discussion about whether, when the Minister has such a special power, one does not invite interest groups etc. exerts political pressure on the Ministry in individual cases to promote a decision on a residence permit. Is it not therefore better, in fact, that we should keep it out of the hands of the Minister and insist that decisions should be taken by an authority?
ParlaMint-DK_20160210135108	Thank you. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210135109	Thank you. I understand the concern of the honourable Member, but we would like to keep both options open in the negotiations that need to be. Because what we do not want is for rules to be drawn up on the basis of a case, which are too lenient and where we do not hold on to what the main aim is. I actually heard the questioner himself mention this in his rapporteur's speech. Well, somewhere there's a limit. And then I am quite sure that we have such talented ministers that if there is such a special right of appeal, they can handle it. At any rate, I am very sure that the current minister will not hand out one permit after another with a round hand. But we can just see, today, when the opportunity is not here, that if there had not been the individual cases, we would not have been here today. It's still gone on the basis of individual cases. Now there will be a question debate here. There we have to trust that our politicians, ministers and the official work we have can handle this kind of thing. But I understand the balance that needs to be struck in such a context.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210135214	Thank you. Then it's mr. Mattias Tesfaye again.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210135216	I don't have any more questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210135222	Then it is Mrs Ulla Sandbæk, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210135226	Thank you very much. Does the rapporteur not agree that it is precisely these two individual cases that have drawn our attention to the fact that there is something that should be changed in the legislation? That is why Mrs Johanne-Schmidt-Nielsen put a question to the Minister. We weren't aware of this, and we could have risked people coming here, paid $400,000. for their studies and subsequently were expelled because of a technicality. It is surely not very appropriate to attract other students that they may be treated in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210135250	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210135251	I guess that's why we're gonna try to sit down and see if we can find a more flexible approach to this. But we can do that without having any major relaxations in this area in general, because we are not really involved in this. I fully understand that this is a good example of the fact that it is a single matter that helps to raise a discussion. I understand that too. Then it is just, I think, very, very important that we, as elected representatives here in Things, take it down and look at whether we can generally look at some rules so that we do not have such legislation on the basis of individual cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210135332	Mrs. Ulla Sandbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210135333	I certainly hope that the speakers have shown that this is also the intention. It is not intended to be transformed into an unlimited job. The point is that if you study, you should not be deported.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210135344	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210135345	As I hear this whole debate, I think we all agree to a large extent that we would like to take a look at this. The challenge will, of course, be when we sit down in a room and see where exactly the balance has to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210135403	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll. No, it's the minister first. We're just gonna take care of it up here. We walked by each other a little bit. Here you go, it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210135424	Yes, it is a matter of finding a balance in how to distribute the benefits here in the Assembly Hall, and that is exactly how we are to ensure that those who can and will can come to Denmark, and those who do not want to, should not be here. In fact, I think that is what the whole debate here today has been about. I sometimes think that these matters may seem very simple immediately if individual cases are raised against each other: the case of the foreign student who is doing well and who really can and will, and the case of the foreigner who is perhaps a criminal but who is allowed to stay in Denmark because we cannot send them out. This is one of the things that can get your mind off the ground, and I can understand that. When it comes to foreign students, it's just about finding the balance. When you're here for study, it's primarily for study, and then it's not for work. After all, it is also about taking great care of our labour market and ensuring that we do not experience wage dumping. That was, in fact, the discussion that led to the changes in this area in the past. So it is about finding a balance, and when I listen to the parties in this Chamber today, I also hear that one is willing to try to find that balance with the government. Of course, I thank you very much for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210135606	There are a few brief comments. Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210135607	Thank you. First of all, I would like to express my appreciation for the fact that the government would like to try to find that balance. I think we all want to. At least the Liberal Alliance would like to be a part of that. I have a question about this. This kind of case arises and without even having to talk about the two specific cases that have been mentioned today, there will probably be more of them until we reach agreement. Is there any possibility at all of being able to make some kind of valve or cat door or anything until you agree on a new set of rules. Does the Minister see an opportunity for this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160210135646	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210135648	In fact, I do not see any possibility of that, as the rule book is today. If we're gonna go in and change some things, it's the set of rules. You can't change practice the way I see it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210135659	Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210135700	Even if you send a signal that you are surprised at the interpretation as it is done?
ParlaMint-DK_20160210135710	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210135711	No, actually, I don't see it that way. This is something that can always be investigated, but I actually think it is an impossibility. And I think there would be other problems if I started to interpret the rules differently than they are purely legislative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210135731	Then it is Mrs Ulla Sandbæk, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210135733	Thank you. My question is a little further than that of Mr Seligman. Simon Emil Ammitzbølls. It says, after all, that exceeding the permitted working time creates a presumption that the purpose of the stay is not to study but to work. Could it not then be said that the assumption might just as well have gone the other way, that is, that one had not had to assume or take as given that it was now a study, but a work? Because one might as well have assumed that this was actually a job. So can we not say that, precisely in relation to this assumption, it has gone the wrong way in this particular case? Would the Minister not confirm that people do not necessarily have to be shown on the assumption?
ParlaMint-DK_20160210135818	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210135819	After all, I am not the one who sits and settles these matters, and it is also the case that when complaints are made about them, they go to the Foreign Affairs Council. It is, of course, a board which we in the Left were opposed to, but which the then majority of the Folketing wanted to set up, in other words together with the Socialist-led government. I have to comply with the rules, whether or not I voted for the Foreigner's Board, but when a case is on the Foreigner's Board, I cannot interfere.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210135852	Mrs. Ulla Sandbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210135853	The rules are, of course, that you are not allowed to work more than 15 hours, but then you have paid a fine, and then you can say that this matter is out of the world. You do not even have to add that you are supposed to be an employee. It is, of course, the government that has written the papers, so one can well say that yes, it is supposed, but it is not proven by this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210135921	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210135921-2	Well, it's got something on it when you pay a fine, and I guess it's because you're aware that you've done something wrong. It is very, very rare to go in and pay such a fine immediately and without even complaining about it, without knowing that you have done anything wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210135942	Thank you. Mrs. Johanne Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210135944	Thank you. It is a good thing that all parties, with the exception of the Danish People's Party, can see that these rules are too bureaucratic and that they need to be changed. I have two specific questions. The first is: when does the Minister expect to be able to present a proposal for new rules? The second is that the Minister envisages convening all parties to a kind of negotiation, or how has the process progressed?
ParlaMint-DK_20160210140016	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210140017	On the first question, when can I say that it is this autumn. On the last question, I can say that this has not yet been clarified.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210140023	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210140024	Firstly, could the Minister be a little more precise than saying that it is in the autumn? Secondly, I would like to call on the Minister to invite all parties to a debate on this, given that there is such a broad consensus. We have seen this before in the press, and so it has been confirmed in the Chamber today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210140041	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210140046	To the first question about the timing, I can say: No, I cannot be more precise. In relation to the second question about the desire to be invited, it has of course been heard, and that is also understood, but I will take a position on that at a later stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210140058	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210140102	It is mostly such a question of understanding: are you being expelled because you break the rules or because you are no longer perceived as a student, that is to say that you are no longer perceived as a student in what you have done?
ParlaMint-DK_20160210140114	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210140115	In other words, I must not go back in and comment on the specific cases, but there is a clear breach of the rules here. Then I understand that in one case things have changed by having sought a different residence in Denmark and having been accepted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210140141	Thank you, Minister. Since no one else has asked for the floor... it's so nice that people press in, because then I'm more ready. It's like the last of the rapporteurs, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210140200	I think it has been a good debate today and I would like to thank a large majority of the parties for their expressions and also the government for the willingness to do something about it so that we can achieve a better balance in these things. Then perhaps you can quietly urge the government to hurry a little more. I know that it is sometimes difficult with multitasking and that there are two-party negotiations and tripartite negotiations, and what I know, but this is a very small matter we are talking about here, so we are at least prepared to stand up if the Minister is interested in dialogue, discussion and agreements on this side of the summer holiday. I do not think it would take many hours for the parties to agree to change the rules. So I would like to thank you for all the positive statements and the great cooperation that have been made, and then I just have a rewarding wish that we could get even more speed, sorry, speed, on the process.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210140309	Thank you. Now no one has asked for the floor, and the debate has actually ended, and that is surprisingly one hour early. It says on the agenda that Question Time will not start until 1 p.m. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 15.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210150002	The sitting is resumed. I have to inform you that those of Pernille Schnoor (S) under item 1. Questions addressed to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior (Question No 7 and 8) S 612 and S 613) are deleted from the agenda at the request of the author. Questions shall be put to written answer. The next are questions to the Minister for Finance, and the first question is Erik Christensen from the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210150044	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210150048	Thank you. I will start by reading the question: Does the Minister believe that the figures presented by Politiken on 22 December 2015 showed that experience from Denmark and Norway shows that the relocation of government jobs can cost between 0.5 million. kr. and 1.1 million kr. per This is why the total relocation of the 3,900 state jobs will cost around 1.95 billion.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210150115	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210150117	[Audience outages]... as was also shown by the playout •Better Balance • that the relocation of government jobs will cost some money. It will be temporary costs of moving employees out of the metropolitan area, and we will probably also experience a temporary reduction in production until the new organisations are fully in place. It's natural, even though we're working hard to minimize these risks. We have, of course, made a political choice here. We want state jobs to be distributed throughout the country and to be closer to the citizens. I also assume that we agree on that. Let me now say to the question of the history of politics that prior to the government's decision, previous examples and foreign experience of relocations were looked at, among other things. seen on previous Danish experiences. Experience showed, for example, that when the Danish Security Authority moved to Esbjerg, it was budgeted with costs of approx. 500,000 kroner. per Workplace. As can be seen from the answer given to the Rural and Islands Committee, the general part, Question 38, the Ministry of Industry and Growth has now estimated that the expenditure associated with the move in 2004 landed at about 1.5%. 17 million kr. in 2015 prices corresponding to an average price of DKK 225,000. per Workplace. Foreign experience was also looked at in Norway and Sweden. The high figures given in the question are, I believe, from the Norwegian experience. We have not been able to verify the Norwegian experience, but it has generally been assessed that the Norwegian experience could not be transferred to Danish conditions, among others. there are greater geographical distances in Norway than we know it in Denmark. We are now in the situation where all ministries have drawn up implementation plans, and we expect to be able to give an overall statement for implementation, including the total price, after the winter holidays. I have already said that we could have achieved this in the first half of February, but it has been shown that we need a few more weeks.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210150340	Sir. Erik Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210150343	Thank you. Now the minister explains that the figures when moving the National Security Agency to Esbjerg were DKK 250,000. per Workplace. If we look at those numbers, that's the 400 million. kr. that's dropped off, and then that number of jobs, I guess we'll get about an average price of DKK 100,000. per Workplace decommissioned. I would also like to say at the outset that, as Socialists, we fully agree with the political decision to move state jobs out so that there will be state jobs distributed throughout the country. What we are a little worried about is also why I am asking the question today is the process itself and that of the economy, because, as the Minister himself explains, there is a certain risk of a reduction in productivity during a period of relocation or relocation, and it is of course clear that it will be felt by the professions, organisations and citizens who need the work of the various agencies. However, with regard to the economy, I would like to ask something: does the Minister recognise that the 400 million? kr. Is it not enough to remove the 3,900 jobs? I know the Minister has just said that the calculations come here after the winter holidays, but I have to say that the figures in relation to the relocation of the Security Authority to Esbjerg do not hold up as far as the 400 million. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210150508	Then it's the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210150509	It's very difficult to estimate this, because the different governments will charge different costs. And some relocations are happening here at Sjælland, and I suppose that might be cheaper than anywhere else. But our estimate for 2016 is 400 million. kr., and I expect that will last. I am well aware that there will be extra expenditure, but that will then come to the 2017 financial bill, that is, when we come to August this year. How much remains to be seen from what we report in a few weeks' time after the winter break.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210150600	Sir. Erik Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210150601	Thank you. Should I understand the Minister's answer so that if it becomes more expensive, what I can at least have an ugly expectation of, then the government will find funding in the Finance Act and not through efficiency and savings in the individual agencies, so that it will not really be 3,900 jobs moving out, but perhaps a few fewer?
ParlaMint-DK_20160210150624	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210150626	I would like to stress that this is not an austerity exercise. I mean, we have not decided on the relocation of state jobs to save money. We have made this decision here because we want to achieve better balance in Denmark and create activity everywhere in Denmark and also show that there are state knowledge jobs that can be located anywhere in the country. That is, of course, the reason for the decision we have taken. But it is clear that what we have put forward, that is, the 400 million. kr., is a calculation for 2016, and there will of course be some expenses in 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210150709	Sir. Erik Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210150710	Thank you. It is only because the Minister said to the Ritzau Bureau on 22 January that the 400 million. kr. from the Finance Act is seen as a co-financing of relocation costs. The rest must be found within the existing financial framework of the individual ministries. That would mean savings ■ that is how I read it, at least within the framework of the individual ministries, in relation to financing the remainder.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210150735	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210150736	But it is clear that some expenditure must be borne by the governments within their budgets, whether they are here or they are elsewhere in Denmark. They have to pay rent, they have to pay electricity, they have to pay heat and so on. So quite a few of these things are going to be within the ordinary operation of the companies. I hope, then, that when you get the opportunity to set up a job from the bottom up, if you can say so, you organise it as rationally as possible and as well as possible for business operations in the company, and score the gains associated with being able to set up a business from scratch. But the starting point for this is that it is not a saving exercise, and it is not because the goal is that there should be fewer employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210150828	Then we thank the Minister for Finance. We move on to the next question, which is to the Minister for Business and Growth. It's sir. Kasper Roug asking the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210150838	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210150842	How does the Minister think that it fits in with the government's overall strategy on the relocation of state jobs, that the cutting of LAG funds by over 30 million? kr. from next year, by all accounts, will cost government jobs at the LAG Secretariat in Nykøbing Falster, where the secretariat opened as late as 1 January last year?
ParlaMint-DK_20160210150900	Minister for Business and Growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210150902	In November 2015, the Government presented an overall strategy to create growth and development across the country. I also had the pleasure of having a discussion with the questioner about this last week's Question Time. The strategy contains well over a hundred initiatives that we are now working hard to implement. Following on from the strategy, I can tell you that only yesterday, 9 February, we reached an agreement of 800 million. kr. in the period 2016 to 2019 for specific initiatives including: reduction of ferry charges for passenger transport to and from the islands, a broadband pool, and targeted action for business in areas which may be affected by severe decline. The strategy, as I am sure the honourable Member is aware, has a total of five areas of action where the relocation of state jobs and a better framework for the food and agricultural industry are two of the major areas of action. The government will also, as previously stated, over the coming years move approx. 3,900 government jobs from the metropolitan area to the other four regions. It is the largest total relocation of state jobs ever in the history of Denmark. The LAG Secretariat moved to Nykøbing Falster in early 2015. Pr. 1 January 2017 25 additional jobs will be moved from the Danish Business Authority in Copenhagen to Nykøbing Falster. It is jobs that concern rural development, but also other tasks are moved to Nykøbing Falster; tasks that do not concern LAGs. Nykøbing Falster will therefore have even more state jobs than they do today. These are jobs that will help to strengthen the local labour market and also support growth in the area and, above all, bring state jobs closer to the citizens and businesses that are being serviced from there. As I said last week, the government also reached an agreement on the agricultural and food package on 22 December, which was based on providing better opportunities to develop our rural areas, and here I also note that this is something that can help to strengthen our jobs and, above all, our rural production companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210151122	Sir. Kasper Roug.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210151123	Thank you, Minister. I am, of course, pleased with the answer. It is also true that there is a large relocation going on. But what I am actually asking is: is the LAG Secretariat affected by this? If the LAG Secretariat is affected by the fact that you now have to cut approx. one third of the LAG pools? I would like the Minister to acknowledge that there could be a problem there. Then it is true that there will be some more state jobs for Nykøbing Falster. That's pretty good, too. That's not it at all. But what we are experiencing is that there is a calm erosion. It is okay for state jobs to be relocated, but we are afraid that there will be a quiet and calm erosion in that people will quietly cut back. There was in Politiken for approx. 7 months ago also a fine article describing it, namely that in West and South Zealand there were moved from 2009 to 2013, i.e. for a four-year period, in fact, without the big comments 7.2%. Government jobs. I guess the same thing happens here, too, sir. Minister. Is it not the case that now we are running the risk of having an erosion of what has already been decided? It wasn't even a year ago. Now we are running the risk of one third of the staff on the LAG Secretariat being dismissed as such.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210151250	Minister for Business and Growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210151251	So, first of all, I would like to make it clear that we have now decided to relocate 3,900 state jobs from the capital to the other four regions. I am also told that the questioner somehow signs for that. However, I simply take a quiet note here today that the previous government was not in a position at all to make a relocation of state jobs. It has to be said that it was not an ambition of the previous government, and hence of the party to which the questioner belongs. In relation to what the current situation might look like in terms of the staff responsible for the LAG, I am not in a position to tell you anything about it today. But as soon as I have that overview, I will of course also give it to the Folketing. But on a stand today I am unable to give that information. I'm sorry, but that's the way it is. That is because we do not have a consolidated figure for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210151344	Sir. Kasper Roug.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210151345	That is clear, but it does not take much imagination to figure out that when you take a third of the budget and when it already pays jobs, it will of course go beyond the number of jobs that are then in this so-called LAG Secretariat. Now the relocation of state jobs is something that has been on the government's agenda, and of course we also sign for that, but before it is true that there has been little interest in it for many, many years. There is, in fact, another thing. Does the Minister not even realize that there is, and can be, a problem in that, in Denmark, with one hand, jobs are being created and, in this way, with the other hand, there is a risk that more jobs will be taken again now, bearing in mind that the area has already been severely affected?
ParlaMint-DK_20160210151435	Minister for Business and Growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210151436	Now it is probably also appropriate to make it clear here today that it is not an either-or. I understand that the questioner is very concerned about the relocation of public jobs, state jobs, and I think that is also an important point, especially when the government is now delivering on the promise made by the government. I would remind you that the Social Democratic Party in the election campaign took the view, under the then President, that the relocation of state jobs was not something to be worried about at all and that it was not something supported by the Social Democratic Party. In addition, however, I would like to say that it is also necessary to focus on what we can do to create better conditions for private jobs and to strengthen private growth. That is precisely why yesterday we presented a large number of policy initiatives that support growth opportunities. That is also what the agricultural package provides. So this isn't a either-or, it's a boat-and. It is both a relocation of state jobs, but not least it is also a question of creating a better framework for the development of companies living in our rural areas and for that matter also in the Region of Zealand.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210151532	Sir. Kasper Roug.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210151533	That is true, but now it has to be said that the Socialists naturally also support the relocation of state jobs. I guess it's not the Minister's nose past either. It is also to be hoped that the Minister will, of course, also want to recognise an area such as this. Lolland, which is an area which in the last 20 years may well be the area in Denmark that has lost most jobs. Then it is to be hoped that the Minister still looks with goodwill at the fact that we must of course try to maintain as many state jobs in rural areas as possible, in the sense that with one hand we are sending state jobs to rural areas, but that of course we are not going to start cutting it down with the other hand, so that we are burying it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210151622	Then it's the Minister of Business and Growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210151624	What I believe, and at least can see now, is that the questioner supports the government's plan for the relocation of state jobs, and we have to sign for that. For every time there is a Social Democrat who supports something the government does, one should remember to praise it. But having said that, I would like to say that there are quite a lot of voices in the Social Democrats at the moment who are very critical of the relocation of state jobs, so it is not quite clear to me what the Social Democrats think. But what is crucial to me is to see that this is a plan which is based both on making an ambitious relocation of state jobs • the most ambitious plan ever • but also on providing better growth opportunities for some of the industries that help create and maintain jobs in our rural areas; agriculture and food, where I am sorry that Social Democracy did not want to be included in the political agreement; production companies; and, for that matter, also to provide better conditions for our tourism, which also means something in relation to our rural areas when we talk about employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210151716	Then we thank the Minister for Business and Growth and move on to, yes, there are three titles, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing. The question is asked by Christian Rabjerg Madsen of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210151730	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210151732	Thank you. Does the Minister agree with the Prime Minister when, on 3 February 2016, he wrote about the Social Democrats' integration project that "You can therefore work well and take care of yourself in Denmark, even if you do not speak Danish. That is why we need to change the approach: refugees must work and then the language must be built in conjunction with it, and I am pleased that the Social Democratic Party is today thinking about the link between work and language, and does the Minister agree with the Confederal Group of the European United Left, Marcus Knuth, who, on the same proposal from the Social Democratic Party, said that it creates a false, almost semi-communist economy?
ParlaMint-DK_20160210151811	Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210151815	In relation to the Prime Minister, the answer is yes. In relation to Mr. Marcus Knuth is the answer yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210151822	Then it's mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210151824	That answer puzzles me, because I think that these two statements are quite contrary to each other. I found it confusing to follow the Left and the government last week. The Prime Minister agreed, almost commending the social democratic integration project, but Mr. Marcus Knuth, the integration rapporteur, gave it full thrill and made a comparison with communism, an ideology which, in parentheses, has genocide on conscience. A very strange comparison. I also wonder why the integration rapporteur draws the map of communism. It cannot be the case that it is state-supported employment that the government partout objects to. The government's mandate for tripartite discussions, for example, says: It must be as simple as possible for the company to take social responsibility and contribute to the employment effort with training courses for refugees and family members in the workplace, for example. in company practice and wage subsidy recruitment. It will be discussed how the current rules on supported employment can be made more flexible and how the service provided by job centres to enterprises can be strengthened. And the government, as far as I am aware, has no plans to abolish useful jobs, for example. I therefore think it is necessary to ask the Government the question: since the substance cannot be the cause of Mr. Marcu Knuth's criticism is due to Mr. Marcus Knuth's criticism saw the mere fact that the proposal came from the Social Democratic Party? I cannot see how else to justify the fact that the rapporteur for integration of the Left, Mr. Marcus Knuth was supposed to make the communism comparison in relation to our integration project.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210152009	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210152010	Now I do not know why it hurts the rapporteur so much that the rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Marcus Knuth, has said that it is almost a semi-communist economy. I simply do not understand how it can hurt so much, so it is something you need on a Wednesday in this Chamber. Having said that, however, I fully agree with the Prime Minister that one can easily be on the labour market without speaking Danish, because I actually think a lot of Eastern Europeans prove that every day; they do not yet master the language. And I guess that's also true if you come from Syria. In relation to Mr. Marcus Knuth, I can say that I do not think that refugees should be activated in special public utility jobs. I would rather that the refugees who come to Denmark get into ordinary jobs where they get to earn their own money and get to support themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210152108	Then it's mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210152109	I can inform the Minister that the Socialists have historically felt it essential for our party to combat totalitarian ideologies, including communism. That is why, of course, it is outrated and strange to call our integration project Communism, especially as the government agrees with the substance of the project. But if the Minister does not wish to distance himself from the opinion of the integration rapporteur, will the Minister not explain to me what is the false and almost semi-communist nature of the social democracy's concept of integration?
ParlaMint-DK_20160210152147	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210152149	It is, of course, a question of the refugees who come to Denmark going into quite ordinary jobs as far as possible, and I hope that is an ambition that the Socialists can share with us. I don't think that's exactly what Mr. Marcus Knuth says it's useful that it's such a semi-communist economy you drive. It must surely be about supporting oneself in the ordinary labour market so that one can pay for one's apartment and day and way, just as everyone else does. That must be what this is all about. I also think it would be very good if that were what it was all about for the Socialists. So again: I simply cannot see what hurts so much when a rapporteur from the Left says a false, almost semi-communist economy, because that is what it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210152243	Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210152245	After all, the Social Democrats' action is that we must get the refugees to work from day one. This should preferably be done by ordinary employment. If this is not possible, they will be assigned a job and it can be a useful job, a wage subsidy job, an internship. That is the approach we have. We will do everything we can to get refugees into work from day one. We don't think you should sit on passive support. Will the Minister not try again to explain to me how it can be almost semi-communist? I just don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210152311	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210152312	No, I understand that we disagree about that. But having said that, if the Socialists really wanted to do everything possible to get the refugees who come to Denmark into the labour market, I think the Socialists could have voted in favour of the integration benefit, which is, of course, a low benefit, which provides a clear incentive to enter the ordinary labour market. So that's where you could start. But there is still time to join. Then it is the case that from tomorrow we will start negotiations with both the National Association of Local Authorities and the social partners on how to ensure that more refugees will contribute to the Danish labour market. I hope very much that we will then be able to have a very positive legal treatment here in the Danish Parliament. And with the tones I hear from the Social Democrats, I do not really doubt that the Social Democrats also support that part, and I am very pleased about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210152402	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Christian Rabjerg Madsen. But the Minister continues, because we have Question No. 4 which is also for the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing, and that is by Mr. Christian Langballe from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210152410	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210152415	Thank you, President. The question is: is it not worrying for the Minister that there may be, for example, Islamists who are given citizenship, who do not recognise the Danish people's rule, the constitution and fundamental Danish values, and what initiatives will the government take to ensure that these people do not acquire citizenship, this could be done by the creation of a screening unit?
ParlaMint-DK_20160210152438	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210152441	Thank you. As I have said a number of times, Danish citizenship is something very special, and I think the questioner agrees with me on that. It is therefore my clear view that declared anti-Democrats or Islamists, as is being asked here, should not be granted Danish citizenship. Today, strict requirements are imposed on persons wishing to apply for Danish citizenship. In addition, an applicant must also be willing to accept the basic principles and rules of the game in a democracy such as the Danish one. Therefore, it is required that the applicant pledges allegiance and loyalty to Denmark and the Danish society and declares that he will comply with Danish legislation, including the Basic Law of the Danish Empire, and respect fundamental Danish values and legal principles, including Danish democracy. Then I would like to stress that the police intelligence service always makes an assessment of whether each of the applicants who stand to be included in the bill on the communication of citizenship, that is, Danish citizenship, can be a threat to the security of the country. If that is the case, the cases shall be submitted to the Committee on Birth Rights, which shall decide on the question of exclusion from admission to a bill on the notification of citizenship for a specified period. If a person fulfils all of the general conditions, including by declaring allegiance and loyalty to Denmark, and otherwise is not in the light of PET, yes, I believe that he or she should be included in a bill on Danish citizenship, i.e. the communication of citizenship, whatever opinions he or she may have. So that's how the guidelines are screwed up. After all, it is up to the Danish Parliament to decide whether or not citizenship is eventually granted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210152650	Then it's mr. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210152651	I am fully aware that PET is doing a check as one of the last before the bill is tabled. It is therefore difficult to know what an intelligence service is doing. That is also what the quality of it is, but, as far as I understand it, it concerns only chapters 12 and 13 of the criminal code, and that means that it will be things that relate to terrorism or at least something similar. But what I am after, and what I am proposing, is that a screening unit should be set up and it could be under the auspices of the PET, but the Minister can decide for himself that a unit should check that no one is expressing himself and, for example, that no one is expressing himself. states that they will overthrow the Danish people's rule or that they will have replaced the constitution with the Sharia law. I simply believe that this is fundamental, and that is what is signed in the declaration of loyalty. So it's really just taking the declaration of loyalty seriously. For I would say that five Islamists who want to overthrow the Danish people's rule and who are on the citizenship bill are five Islamists too much.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210152813	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210152814	Well, I have to say that it is just not quite clear to me what it is exactly such a screening unit should be. Now I can then hear what the screening unit is going to do, but how is it going to actually be screwed up and how is it going to work? For example, the unit shall: is made up of officials, or is it politicians who have to decide and define which values are acceptable in Denmark? As far as I am concerned, it is basically true that we have not reached an agreement very long ago that we should just sign a declaration of loyalty and that has been highlighted and it is, as I see it, that we have to hang things on. Otherwise, you have to think what you want here in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210152905	Then it's mr. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210152907	Dear Minister, it is clearly stated what we are talking about. After all, nobody has to sit down and define anything, because it has already been done in the declaration of loyalty, which is already happening, and we have already done so. So it's within the course we play, and it's about loyalty to the people's rule and to the constitution and these basic Danish values and principles of law. That's what this is all about. I would just like to ask: if you indicate, for example, that you want to overthrow Danish democracy, why should you have citizenship? I do not understand the coupling, and I do not understand that there is no interest in it. We can therefore find ourselves in a situation where we allocate citizenship to people who simply want Denmark and the current social system to where the pepper grows. Do they need citizenship? No, I say.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210153002	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210153003	No, but I'm still not quite clear about what a screening unit is supposed to do. It sounds very attractive, and it sounds very simple, but it just isn't. Well, we live in a free society where, in the real world, you can think what you want, and that is why I do not think it is as simple as it might sound like going in and defining what you think. As far as I'm concerned, it almost smells like something else that I don't think sir. Christian Langballe supports that, and I certainly do not and never have.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210153041	Then we would have set aside room for a fellow inquirer who was Mr. Nas Khader of the Conservative People's Party, but since he has not appeared, he goes out, and thus it is Mr. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210153053	I have to say that I simply think it is talk. It is not because I intend to do such a kind of mind control where people have to carry appliances on their heads to measure what is going on, but I am thinking of the voices that people are making, and you are doing it honestly in advance. Because PET is doing so, so I simply cannot understand it, and when it is within the framework of the people's rule and the constitution, one must respect it. Many years ago I saw a program called Undercover Mosque, where you walked into a mosque and filmed with hidden camera, and where you simply made some statements about overthrowing Danish democracy and introducing Sharia law with cutting-off of hands, which was so horrible. Should such people have citizenship in Denmark? No, I just don't think they should. That is, in fact, the starting point.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210153148	It's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210153149	No, but as I have already said, I do not think that declared anti-democratics or Islamists should be granted Danish citizenship, and that is why we have the declaration of loyalty, which must be signed. So the question is a little whether Mr. Christian Langballe himself believes that the declaration of loyalty on which we have made an agreement is enough, and I understand that he does not think so. It is fair to say that this is also a view he has previously flagged.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210153221	Thank you. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 5, which is also for the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing, and this time the questioner is also Mr. Christian Langballe from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210153230	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210153232	Thank you, President. The question is: Will the Minister take the initiative to conduct a prior interview with the applicant in connection with the signing of the Declaration of Loyalty when applying for citizenship, ensuring that the person recognises and acknowledges the rule of the people, the constitution and the fundamental Danish values, which is what the person promises by signing the Declaration of Loyalty?
ParlaMint-DK_20160210153254	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210153255	I believe that the current guidelines for Danish citizenship are sufficient. I've got myself with, among other things. Mr. Christian Langballe helped to conclude a new agreement on citizenship and citizenship in the autumn, where a number of areas were tightened up, and I am very pleased that there was, and I thought it was an incredibly good and constructive cooperation we had on it. I am, of course, always open to discussing new actions or else you should know me very badly, but I have to admit that in relation to the proposal for a special prior interview with all applicants, I find it very difficult to see how it would help further to ensure that people suspected of being anti-democratic or Islamist really recognise and accept the loyalty obligation that is a condition for obtaining Danish citizenship. As part of their application to faith and laws, the persons concerned have declared their allegiance and loyalty to Denmark, and that they will comply with Danish legislation and respect quite basic Danish values and legal principles.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210153410	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210153411	Well, I think it is actually an excellent idea, and it has been taken from the United States, by the way. In the United States, you do it. There, applicants for citizenship are interviewed as to whether they accept the American Constitution, and they also express their loyalty to the Constitution. So that's where you do exactly the same thing. But that is because citizenship in the United States means so much that it is said that an interview must of course also be held. Because we must be absolutely sure that the people who acquire citizenship actually recognize the society in which they acquire citizenship. I think it is very simple and I do not see why the Minister does not understand what this involves. Because it's very simple. It is to ensure that people who want Danish citizenship recognize Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210153514	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210153515	Then I can ask the opposite: is it not done by signing the declaration of loyalty?
ParlaMint-DK_20160210153520	Then it's mr. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210153523	You don't necessarily do that. Indeed, we have had a case with a person who was an Islamist and who was in favour of replacing the Constitution with the Sharia Act, etc., which was taken by the bill and which was not granted citizenship, although he had signed a declaration. Well, that person was taken from the proposal. I would like to ask the Minister a question: does the Minister really think that all the people on the bill are democrats? If the Minister will give me that promise, I am satisfied.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210153603	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210153604	No, sir, I can't make that promise. Christian Langballe, but I can say that we are very much in agreement that this is a serious matter. But I can ask Mr. Christian Langballe, whether during such an interview you will not also be able to pretend exactly what you do when you sign the declaration of loyalty. Thinks sir. Christian Langballe really that during an interview you will not be able to suppress the possible anti-democratic attitudes that you might have?
ParlaMint-DK_20160210153637	Then it's mr. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210153639	This is the case with all kinds of laws, among others. in the road, that you can therefore break certain laws and violate some promises, and therefore it is also important that there is some police in the streets who are doing everything they can to control it, and there is my question in this way just: why not make the extra security so that you actually have to explain through an interview that you really want Denmark? I think that is quite simply what the screening unit should do, and all it has to do is, of course, ensure that those who acquire Danish citizenship recognize Denmark and that they do not just want our society to go where the pepper grows. That is what matters. I just think that future generations and generations will have some problems, also because so many citizenships have been distributed without really knowing who we have distributed them to.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210153734	Thank you, sir. Christian Langballe. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210153736	I don't disagree with sir. Christian Langballe in that far too many citizenships have been distributed, there is also in my view, and that is one of them. That's why we've tightened up. I'm just wondering if this is exactly what this is all about that doesn't mean you don't want to see if you can say wrong citizenships are being given out. And in the end, it is actually the case that you can be deprived of your citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210153805	Then I would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing for the answer and Christian Langballe for the question. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 6, and this is for the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior, and it is submitted by Mrs Karin Nødgaard from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210153824	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210153826	Thank you, President. Does the government intend to urge the municipalities that the legislation should be followed in cases where there has been a reported failure to provide care and abuse of children, and does the government consider sanctions against municipalities that do not comply with their supervisory obligations?
ParlaMint-DK_20160210153841	The Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210153844	Thank you. Let me start by stating that the municipalities must, of course, comply with the legislation which applies in this area and which we have laid down here in the Folketing. This also applies, of course, to the rules which say that the municipalities must talk to the child at the location at least twice a year as part of the person-oriented supervision. It goes without saying that it is essential to be able to keep track of how the child feels, that one also speaks to the child. This is precisely one of the points on which I think the municipalities are actually on the right track. Of course, one might also ask whether we are still fully in the finish line. There are indications that we are not quite in the finish line yet, but the legislation is clear and the legislation must be complied with by the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210153936	Mrs. Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210153937	Thank you. In fact, I had also noted the word clearly on my paper here, because I have actually heard that the Minister has used several times over the last few weeks in connection with the fact that there have again been some terrible stories about some children who have been abused and who have not had the proper care and supervision. It may well be that the legislation is clear to the Minister and to me. We've been doing a lot of it, too. The only problem is that it is not being followed in the municipalities. You don't live up to what has been written, and that's why I've done this question, because it's not about us making a lot of legislative changes. It is about how we get the municipalities to comply with the legislation that we have now made. If the municipalities do not, will the Minister address the whole issue of sanctions? What can we do to impress on the municipalities that they must comply with it? What can we do with sanctions? That is the way we are going, for example. may use shepherd's letters and send out. The minister could write a shepherd's letter to the municipalities and make sure something happens in this area. The government could also take action on something with sanctions. I think this is so serious an area, also because we can hear that in very, very many cases there are no children's conversations and children are not involved. If they are involved, there may always be others present. There shouldn't always be. There are so many things that are actually limping. We have heard about cases, including those from the media, that there are acts that are either not made or have disappeared, etc. I think there are so many things that can be tackled, other than that we are now sitting and telling each other that the legislation is as it should be. However, we still have a responsibility from in here, and in particular the Minister has a responsibility to ensure that the legislation is complied with.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210154124	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210154125	I would like to thank the rapporteur for highlighting all the legislation we have actually implemented in this area. We have done so because it has been necessary. So it is not many years ago that we did not have at least two annual statutory personal supervisions, that is to say, where we have and supervise the child who has been placed, and thus clearly have to have a conversation with the child. So it is just to stress that a great deal has been done in the area of children, because this has been necessary and all these initiatives are moving in the right direction. I do not need a long list, of course, the rapporteur himself has been a member of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, as well as of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian It is therefore a set of reforms which have significantly changed the whole regulatory framework in a very, very short time, and the reports in relation to the legislative work and reform work that we have done together, both among the municipalities and the organisations in this area, are that it is good and necessary reforms, but there is no doubt that it has been and, in part, is a huge task for the municipalities to implement such major reforms. I think it is very important that we also learn from this in relation to the whole implementation task, where we in the Danish Parliament have probably underestimated how difficult it is for the municipalities to reorganise that process. So this just makes me point out that I think it is important that we maintain the consensus that, in principle, it is not the law that is wrong, so that we keep the legislation in order, so to speak, and focus on the fact that implementation must work, and it must be done in the municipalities. That is why we must follow and keep following the area closely and keep keeping the municipalities up to the point that they are responsible, and that is also where things have to work. We help them with that, among other things. by launching continuing training initiatives, by setting up a task force, i.e. a dedicated travel team that visits the municipality and implements it here more, you can call the hand-held effort to implement the legislation that is there, and so, as some of the latest political agreements we have made, in relation to the implementation of what we call the Swedish model, which also reinforces the early preventive action.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210154405	Mrs. Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210154407	I think that what the Minister is doing in relation to what we have done primarily in terms of national politics in relation to the legislation is really fine, but I think that I have a little left to get an answer to what we can do, as well as to tighten up with these municipalities, it is not all, of course, but with the municipalities that simply do not live up to it. For example, we will be able to make it to the next stage. I am very concerned about the fact that a study has been carried out by the National Federation of Social Pedagogues, which shows that one third of children placed in care do not receive statutory supervision from the municipality. In one sixth of the cases where children are placed, children do not get involved in their own affairs, and we know how important it is that we have put a lot of emphasis on the fact that children should be involved and heard in relation to it. I think there are so many things that make it necessary to tighten things up in some way, and I asked that at first, for example. In relation to a shepherd's letter: was it an idea that something could be done in this area to mark out to the municipalities that what is in the law should therefore be complied with and that this should be dealt with? Because we must remember that these are vulnerable children and young people. They are so fragile and vulnerable, they have so many challenges in relation to what they have been exposed to through their lives, and therefore we need to focus on this. It's okay with a task force. We know that it has worked in some places, and we also know that some people have not accepted it at all. There are so many challenges, and that is why, of course, I would also like to hear from the Minister in relation to this, since I have now also formulated something about sanctions in my question. Has the Minister considered anything in relation to how to actually increase what I call accountability in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20160210154540	Mrs Karin Nødgaard, we have moved on to 1⁄2 minutes' speaking time. There's just nothing at all to indicate time here. Nothing). It certainly is the Minister's turn - also for 1⁄2 minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210154550	I am fully involved in this discussion, which we regularly have about frustrations, when municipalities do not follow the legislation that is so clear, and that is why, as we also see in the specific case, there is the possibility of bringing proceedings against the municipalities and seeking compensation, and there is also municipal supervision that is handled in the state authorities, and we must ensure that what the municipalities are doing is legal. Monitoring can therefore force a decision if a municipality does not comply with a binding decision. Then there is the question of whether the shepherd's letter is the answer. I think it is vitally important that we maintain this track, which is very much about helping municipalities to improve their quality, also in relation to the case-law. If we focus only on punishing when municipalities make mistakes, I think there is a risk that we are actually stifling this local responsibility and the local commitment that must and must be present if we are to hope at all that we will be better at helping vulnerable children, helping vulnerable families. Yeah, that was 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210154713	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210154715	I am sorry, of course, but there is simply no time record down here. The minister is talking about the local involvement. I fully agree, and I would also like to avoid, for all things in the world, going in and talking about sanctions and so on. We can only see that this is a question of vulnerable children and young people who do not receive the help and support that have been affected in the long term by emotions, souls, forever, and that is why we have to do what we can. That is why I would just like to hear briefly from the Minister: how does the Minister think we should help the municipalities from now on?
ParlaMint-DK_20160210154747	It was exactly hit. It's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210154752	Then I'll try to do the same. Something that I specifically plan to do, and as I do on a regular basis, and which I have a permanent meeting cadence in relation to, is to visit the municipalities, simply go out and hold meetings in the municipalities, talk to them and meet with them especially with a focus on the children's area, because it is important to have this dialogue with the municipalities and get them to tell if there is anything in the legislation or at all in the setup that they imagine they could help them to be even better at solving the task. It is vitally important that we are ready with a helping hand if they think they need help in order to be able to interpret and live under the clear legislation that we have adopted at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210154838	Thank you very much to Mrs Karin Nødgaard. We have one more question for the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior, but we have to put to Question No. Question No 9, by Mr de la Malène Numbers 7 and 7 8, as mentioned earlier, has been deleted. The questioner for Question 9 is Mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen-Andersen, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210154857	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210154900	My question is this: does the Minister agree with Dorthe Winther, President of the Association of Danish Small Islands, who believes that the biggest threat to the small islands is the problems of ferry operations, and when does the Minister intend to introduce road equality according to the road model, for which the Left has previously advocated?
ParlaMint-DK_20160210154918	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210154919	Thank you. We are changing the subject, I think we can say calmly, and to that I would like to start by saying that the whole ferry service of the small islands is a municipal matter. It is the municipality which has to decide on both sailing routes and timetables and tariffs, etc. when it comes to the crossing of the island concerned. In fact, I think it is a good principle that it is precisely a municipal decision how priority should be given to ferry operations. This is simply a task which, I believe, is naturally a matter for local local democracy. It is no secret that the government wants to create better conditions for living and working throughout Denmark, including on the islands, and here of course the ferries play a crucial role when it comes to giving a boost to the tourist industry, and also when it comes to strengthening the settlement. Lower ferry rates can help to ensure that the islands are not clogged by the development of society. That is why we have launched this initiative in order to make it cheaper to sail to the islands, and that is why we arrived exactly yesterday with this growth agreement, which will ensure that ferry tariffs for cars and passengers will be significantly reduced. Because with this agreement, 95 million will now be set aside. kr. (ii) to reduce passenger transport charges annually.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210155051	Sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210155052	Thank you for your answer. What could then be seen last night on TV Syd was an old clip from before the last election, when Hans Christian Schmidt, chairman of the Rural Committee, said: We must have the full road model. And that would mean much lower prices for sailing with the ferries. There should be the same price for driving on the blue road as on the black road, as we used to say. We've got an estimate that it costs 281 million. kr. It has to be said that the government has now found the 95 million. kr. There's a good deal up to the 281 million. kr. So now my question to the Minister is: what is the government's plan in relation to the promise made by Hans Christian Schmide at that time?
ParlaMint-DK_20160210155142	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210155143	My answer to that is that I think we have taken a big and proper step towards the road principle with this growth agreement, in which we have thus managed to find 95 million. kr. In this respect, it should be noted that, in order to reduce the charges for passenger transport on an annual basis, it is necessary to reduce the charges for passenger transport on a yearly basis. I fully understand that this is not a hundred per cent introduction of the principle of road transport. And then there is the discussion about whether there is a breach of promise or what there is. I have also re-examined these clips and heard a clear political vision that this is the direction one would like to take. When you take over government responsibility, you start looking in the box. That's one of the first things you do. You do a cashier's checkup. That's what the government did this summer. And it has to be said that this box was more than empty, so the thing about imagining that you can just pull over 280 million. kr. It is difficult in fact to draw up a road policy every year from day to day. I think we have come a very good way with the 95 million. kr., which will be able to significantly lower the rates. It is a step in the right direction. It is not a hundred per cent step towards the introduction of the road principle, but it is a big and proper and important step.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210155257	Sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210155259	I fully agree that this is a good step. I think it is too small, but it is a step in that direction. I think that if you ask all the members of the Rural Committee, they will say that we need the road model, and then you have to see how far you can go. We have said ourselves, when we had the power of government, that we could reach the 133 million. kr. Now the government has presented the 95 million. kr. Then you can discuss whether that is enough or not enough. Many people have an opinion about that. By the way, I didn't say a break. It was the Minister himself who said that. I just said that Hans Christian Schmidt, chairman of the Rural Committee at the time, said: we are going for the full road model. That is really just what I am asking, i.e. whether the government is doing it, namely going for the full road model and then when it is going to happen. Because I respect the fact that you look in the box and all this, but you have to have a plan for this, so you can tell when we have to get to the full road model.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210155351	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210155352	I would like to acknowledge that the questioner does not use that kind of name, although it is a word that is widely used and sometimes also widely used. After all, we have taken the step now towards the introduction of the principle of road transport. It is true that it is not the full step, but it is a step. It hasn't been there before. This has never been done before. A few years ago, an agreement was made to lower tariffs for freight transport, and now the agreement has been made here to lower the rates for passenger transport, i.e. the tickets for passengers. I cannot stand here today and say whether we will ever achieve our goal, that is to say where we can send over 280 million. kr. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to biological agents at work. I must disappoint the questioner in saying when you will be there. Yes, we have certainly taken a step now with the 95 million. kr., and then we'll have to see what the economy looks like in the years to come. But now we're on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210155503	Sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210155504	Now I have found that you have to stay within those 30 seconds, so I would like to put a question to the Minister, who is easy to answer, i.e. such a yes or no question. Now that we reach the 95 million. kr., they have to be rolled out in some way, and I can see that we have to start here after the summer by somehow spending the first 48 million. kr. So I would like to ask what the technique will be like in relation to this, with the coinage of the 95 million. kr. and of the 48 million. kr. How big will the reduction be? Can the Minister say anything about that? And it's so important that all islands and all ferries in the kingdom that are covered by this scheme will notice a reduction in prices?
ParlaMint-DK_20160210155545	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210155546	Allow me to say that this is a little more than a 'no' or a 'yes' question. However, if I am to try to give just a brief answer to that, I will start by stating that we have a historical tradition of actually having good and broad cooperation on the ferry area. And what I am doing, following on from the agreement we reached yesterday with the other blue parties, is that I will now convene the other political parties, that is to say all those who are involved in this debate to discuss the details of this arrangement. Because this will have to be a legislative process which will have to implement the scheme also for non-governmental routes, and that is why it will be going too far in the technical space now. But I just want to say that I look forward to having a constructive discussion on how we are going to put this new pool into practice so that it will benefit these more than 30 routes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210155634	Then we thank the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior for the work he has done today and also thank him for his work. Lennart Damsbo-AndersenAndersen. We move on to the next question to the Minister for Justice, and the questioner is Mrs Pernille Skipper from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210155648	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210155649	I just need to find the question. I'm sorry. In the view of the Minister for Justice, is it good governance that after four weeks the Minister has not yet replied to or set a date for the response to the Committee on Legal Affairs' consultation issue U on UNGASS, although both the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Health and the Elders have, according to the Ministry of Justice, been aware of and discussed who is the right minister to answer the question since it was put on 4 January 2015? No, 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210155725	Then it's the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210155727	Yeah, 2016 -- after all. But that should not prevent me from regretting that the conciliation issue is being answered late and that it has taken so long to set the scene. I can say that it is now planned, and that is until 24 February in the Committee on Legal Affairs, where the question will be answered jointly by myself and my colleague, the Minister for Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210155753	Mrs. Pernille Skip.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210155754	That is true, the issue is now set and I am sorry that we are standing down here discussing the process. However, I think that there is good reason for this, because on 4 January we will be putting a consultation question to the Minister for Justice and will not hear from the Ministry of Justice until 20 January we redirect the matter to both the Minister for Health and the Minister for the Elderly and the Minister for Justice. It is therefore the questioner and the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights who are taking the initiative to ask the question to both ministers if they cannot find out in-house who is going to answer the question. And on Wednesday, we're gonna put an oral article 20 question to the Justice Minister. One is so drawn, the same is true with the question of consultation, the other is what we are in the middle of answering now. And after the Ministry of Justice got a question that meant that we had to ask in this Chamber today, a proposal came up to a date. That was February 5th, a month later. And the proposal for the date was so little more than a month later, and that means that it will take two months, from the time we ask a question, until it is planned for implementation and fortunately matched the calendars. Is that good governance? You have to ask. Is this how we can expect the Ministry of Justice to deal with consultation issues in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20160210155920	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210155920-2	No, as I said, I deeply regret what has happened and I will do my utmost to ensure that it does not happen again.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210155928	Mrs. Pernille Skip.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210155929	I think I had hoped we could get a talk about good governance out of it, but I take the regret to heart. I think it is really nice and good to hear from the Minister for Justice, and that, of course, makes the situation better. What is on top of the situation is not only that it is annoying because we have to wait, because at the same time it is a matter of conciliation which is, in substance, about a very important UN conference to be held from 19 to 21 April this year, and already on 14 March there is a session in Vienna which is crucial for the negotiations, which means that it is about two weeks after we can have a conciliation. And yesterday and the day before yesterday there was a parliamentary assembly as a prelude to this special UN session on drugs policy. That is to say, all these things that have taken place since 19 January, when preparations started and will continue until 19 April, are things that the Folketing will have no influence on, because we have been waiting for a conciliation where we would have liked to have had a talk about what we should think. So how does the Minister of Justice relate to the possibility for the Folketing to have influence when you see such a process?
ParlaMint-DK_20160210160054	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210160055	The vast majority of material legislation in this area is in the Ministry of Health, and that is why it has been difficult to find an appropriate definition. I can only say that I, as Minister of Justice, regret that it has not been possible to return to the Folketing in good time, because it has not. And it is certainly not my ambition to repeat it, because, as Mrs Pernille Skipper also says, there are parliamentarians and also certain bodies for whom it is important to be able to participate in such work. That is why I am also looking forward to hearing the answers that are being asked for.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210160137	Mrs. Pernille Skip.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210160138	I thank you for that. The reason why the Minister for Justice and not the Minister for Health is here now is that the question was originally put to the Ministry of Justice because it was about the decriminalisation of drugs more specifically, and that is what has been difficult to find out where should lie in the Ministry of Justice or in the Ministry of Health. I am just glad that the ministers will then come and answer the question and that we agree that this will not happen again. I also hope, of course, that the Minister for Justice and Health, with this story in mind, will be extra open to dialogue about this special session of the United Nations, because it will in fact be somewhat difficult, or it will be a bit urgent, if Parliament is to have the opportunity to influence.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210160227	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210160228	I see this as an invitation which I will do my best to respond to.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210160238	Then we thank Mrs Pernille Skip. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 11, which is also for the Minister of Justice, and this is put forward by Mrs Karin Nødgaard from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210160247	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210160248	Thank you. What is the government's view of the fact that a case of neglect and abuse of children placed in care can be declared obsolete and thus prevent the children concerned from receiving compensation from a municipality which has failed to discharge its responsibilities?
ParlaMint-DK_20160210160312	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210160313	It is disgusting when children are subjected to abuse or neglect, whether parents, any foster parents or the public authorities have failed. From the outset, this government has had a clear focus on cases of child abuse. I have already lifted the penalties for such abuses by 1 year, and tomorrow Parliament is expected to adopt the government's proposal to extend the video consultation system so that children are treated as gently as possible in the judicial system. I have no further knowledge of the specific case which has given rise to the question. As I understand it, a civil action against the municipality of Slagelse is currently pending before the courts and, as I understand it from the daily press, the municipality has claimed that obsolescence has occurred. I cannot comment on the specific case pending. In general, however, rules on obsolescence are intended to encourage the winding-up or recovery of claims within a reasonable period of time, and this is, of course, a sensible objective as a starting point. However, it is my view that it cannot be ruled out that there may be special circumstances in relation to obsolescence in cases between children who have been subjected to abuse and public authorities. I have therefore asked my officials to look at the obsolescence issue and, among other things, to look at it. discuss it with relevant organisations. I will then return to the Danish Parliament once we have analysed the problem and I can tell the questioner that I expect that we can return to it before the summer break.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210160434	Mrs. Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210160435	I think it is very positive that it is already being looked at. When I put a question to the Minister for Justice I am the social rapporteur, because I know that the area of limitation and compensation lies with the Minister for Justice. This is not a question of starting from a specific case. This is, in fact, the problem of something becoming obsolete. I understand that in other areas, and perhaps also as a lawyer, one can say: that is how it is, and now that we have reached the three years, it has gone. But this is about very vulnerable, vulnerable children and young people who are probably only a long way up in their youth or adult years actually finding out what has happened, and perhaps only here have they come to the conclusion that they can stand up and say what they have been exposed to. That is why I am concerned that as a municipality one can claim that it is an outdated matter, and that is why I am of course very concerned about getting the human being behind the Minister for Justice in relation to this and hearing what is really going to be done by the government. When I sit as a social rapporteur and think about it, I think that the municipality should just lie down flat and pay some compensation and a compensation that is felt and felt. Money cannot do everything, but money can help in some areas. It can, for example, be done. help in relation to psychotherapy, in relation to some changed conditions for training, which can be extended. It can be a lot of things. What really worries me is that as a municipality you actually go in and say you want to bring a trial. Then you have to wait for it to run in relation to the obsolescence issue. If that is not the case, then there is a major problem. What I really need to hear now is what the minister thinks when the minister says fair time. For me, reasonable time may be one, because the minister may be something else, because the whole legal system may be something else. But what is the Minister's intention in relation to the fair time and also in relation to the special circumstances? For me, this really is about special circumstances when we talk about children and young people who have been subjected to some of the most horrible things you can imagine both if they have been placed, but of course it may also have happened in the biological family, by stepparents etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210160643	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210160644	One of the reasons why one of the very first things I did as Minister of Justice was to implement, among other things. a legislative proposal to increase the penalty for paedophilia and, in general, rape and other crimes of that nature, is that I think they are horrible. They affect the victim to a degree that not all other crimes do. That's why I think it's all the more important that we get a look at this. I understand the concerns expressed by the questioner here. However, I think it would be a good idea to pass by a number of considerations if it were simply to be said that now I will go out and consult the relevant organisations, but before that I shall say how and how. On the other hand, what has been of interest to me, and I think the rapporteur is also aware of this, is that work of the kind that has been completed and comes to Parliament's knowledge before the summer break is not a desire to bury anything. On the contrary, it is a desire to promote something, because if that were the second purpose, we would set up an independent committee and then all sorts of wise people would be put in it, and it would take years. So I hope the questioner will be satisfied with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210160807	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210160809	In any case, I am pleased that the Minister has put some things in place. We in the Danish People's Party will follow it very closely, and we will also have a consultation at a later stage with both the Minister for Justice and the Social Affairs and the Minister for the Interior in this area, because we think it is so important to focus on how we can do this in the best way possible in the future. It is the case that the Children's Conditions in the media have said that they are looking at perhaps 24-25 cases, all of which can actually be declared obsolete. This means that those children and young people who have finally come to the realization that they are going to raise a matter can bump their foreheads against a wall in this area. On the other day, I was approached by a young woman who said that she had been abused for 15 years by her stepfather. She reported it to the police, the stepfather recognized what he had done, but the case is outdated. Nothing's gonna happen. To me, this seems to be a violation of any legal certainty.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210160901	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210160903	On a long stretch, I can only say that I share the powerlessness expressed here by the questioner. What we have to look at in this context is whether we can do something about it and, if so, what it can be. I am glad that the Danish People's Party is following this area closely. I am also looking forward to consultations on this. I usually do that in the Folketing, but in this case I actually find it even more important, because I think it is something that will enjoy broad support in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210160936	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210160938	I would like to ask very briefly: are there really any requirements for limitation periods in this type of case? After all, we cannot decide whether a young person, when he reaches 21 years of age, is 5, 10, 15 or 20 years to arrive at whether he has the courage and the strength to raise a case. That was one part of it. The second part is: we have together made a pool agreement, which expires at the end of the year, to support these children and young people to raise their cases. Has the government discussed how to ensure that funds are available in the future, so that it is not the means that will be used to limit people's ability to raise a case?
ParlaMint-DK_20160210161016	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210161018	When it comes to the question of investment funds and funding, you have to have a conversation with my fantastic colleague at a certain point in time. Some considerations have been put forward in the past, and that is one of them. what we need to discuss. For me, it is a little over and down considerations that are stated, but sometimes there may also be a need for a border to be drawn for particularly vulnerable people, so that people, for example, can be called upon. I am not going to go on and on running a case that cannot be closed. Some views have been expressed in this regard in the past, so that people in a way other than the one we are talking about can have peace. It can be a consideration. So all the more important is that we make an effort with what we're looking at and have an investigation of what's really behind these things. Many of these obsolescences have been discussed very, very thoroughly over the ages, but fortunately the political move is taking place, so I think it is sensible to look at it again.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210161117	For the sake of good order, it should be mentioned for the sake of the Minutes that the Minister to whom the Minister for Justice referred was the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior. You cannot see that, because it was some gestures carried out by the Minister of Justice. I am just saying this for the sake of the Minutes. The question is closed and we move on to the next question. It is also addressed to the Minister for Justice, and that is what Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, who is asked to come closer to the desk and now has to read the question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210161146	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210161149	Does the Minister agree with the Swedish Government that foreigners who come to the country must conform to the laws and regulations that apply here and that they must therefore, among other things, do so. should also comply with the rules in force in Denmark as regards begging?
ParlaMint-DK_20160210161206	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210161207	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210161211	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210161212	It was nice to have a very clear answer from the Minister for Justice, and I very much appreciate that. Figures from the National Police show that only five people were convicted of begging in the period 2008-2012, although it is prohibited. Will the Minister ensure that the police use the law to the full?
ParlaMint-DK_20160210161231	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210161232	As the rapporteur will be aware, we held a debate on the tightening of the law on foreigners, in which, among other things, we had a debate. sought a tightening on this area. There is no political majority in favour of this so far, but I can promise the questioner that this is an area on which I am focused and on which I am going to use my strength as Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210161254	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210161255	That's nice to hear, too, and I'd like to sign for that too. In fact, I think that this is a real problem that needs to be addressed. The previous government proposed a policy of stress, in which it was simply necessary to make it very clear to these organized beggars, which it could sometimes be that this will not be tolerated in Denmark. Does the current government agree with this desire for a policy of stress?
ParlaMint-DK_20160210161322	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210161323	I believe, or I know, that the questioner and I share this issue very, very much. It creates insecurity when we see these conditions unfold, with residents, traders and passers-bys. There is no doubt about that. This is especially true of organized begging, where some networks of foreign criminals exploit Danes and their willingness to help people in need. I can therefore say that I have asked my official to look at what is the wisest way to strengthen police action against begging. I would suggest that we have an ongoing discussion on this, for example. The Danish People's Party and the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210161412	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210161413	We would very much like to take part in this, because we really believe that we need to tighten up, tighten up the legislation that is now in place. We have, of course, tabled a resolution in this area in the past, together with the Conservative People's Party, in an effort to put an end to this begging. I would therefore like to offer the Minister, if there is no inspiration, that we can either resubmit the motion for a resolution or pass it on to the government, because it is precisely in order that it should be easier to expel the people that you do not want to see in Denmark. Is that the aim of the government, in other words, to sharpen the penalty in a way that would make it easier to get rid of the expulsion rules?
ParlaMint-DK_20160210161453	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210161454	It would be very useful if we could get there. The problem then lies in the fact that the punishment must be of such a nature that it is proportional to the issue of expulsion. And that will at least to the extent that I can see it also require that the penalty be lifted for Danish homeless and beggars. And I have to say that we are encountering some problems here in the Chamber; there is not a correspondingly strong desire for this from the majority of Parliament's parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210161530	The question is closed. We move on to the next question. That is also what Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen and the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210161539	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210161541	Thank you. Does the Minister agree with the Swedish Government that we should not give beggars money, as it does not help anyone out of poverty and social problems, and that we should rather give money to relevant organisations if we want to help?
ParlaMint-DK_20160210161555	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210161556	As I understand it, the Swedish report is therefore about how best to counter illegal slum owners and travelling beggars. The report in question, which the questioner also mentions, states that beggars can be kept in begging if people give them money and that, therefore, the begging role is also at risk of being passed on to the children of those concerned. That is why the Swedish report recommends that the money be given instead, and preferably more, to organisations that try to help the beggars out of begging, including through interventions in their home country. I have to say that I find that difficult to see an incorrect view. In the end, of course, it must be a private matter whether citizens want to give money to beggars in the street, but it makes sense to think through what this action entails and not to support behaviour which is illegal and which, even when we talk about foreign beggars, can help to maintain beggars in the role of beggars. What you also need to be aware of is whether you risk supporting criminal networks if you contribute to this. So it is my view that the Swedish report should give cause for thought.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210161715	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210161716	I take the answer as a yes. The Minister himself referred to the report and in this respect will the Minister ensure that the Danish police, as is the case in Sweden, ensure that illegal housing built by foreigners is not allowed to stand?
ParlaMint-DK_20160210161735	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210161737	I think that is perhaps outside the real question of answering a so-called 'S' question. I have the approach that the police are very much using resources sensibly and well. If the questioner thinks that there is a special effort to be made in this area, then I suggest that a dialogue be opened which may give rise to a slightly freer debate than in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210161806	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210161808	I have no further questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210161810	That concludes the question. We move on to the next question. It is addressed to the tax minister by Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210161819	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen for reading. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210161822	Does the Minister consider it a problem that seven out of ten Danish companies do not need to be audited, and does the Minister not believe that it would be beneficial for Denmark to achieve greater transparency about Danish companies' tax conditions?
ParlaMint-DK_20160210161838	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210161839	Thank you for the question. I should like to begin by saying that the rules on auditing and the possibility of opting out of audits are in fact the responsibility of the Ministry of Business and Growth and not of the Ministry of Taxation. Having said that, however, I was asked about my position. It is that an audit can help to identify errors and misunderstandings in the accounts, and it is of great value to both the accounting owner and the community and the tax administration that the auditors are some kind of ambassadors, compared to the assumption that the accounts are then better managed than they are on accounts that have not been audited. But there is also a need for a balance of proportionality, i.e. a link between the administrative cost of revising the rules governing the audit and what comes out of it for companies, for society and the tax administration. And there I think we in Denmark have actually found a sensible rent for when companies' annual reports should be revised and when companies can opt out of auditing. My answer to the question of greater transparency in the tax situation of companies is that, in general, I believe it can be beneficial to gain insight into the tax situation of companies, but at the same time I think it obliges us politicians not to abuse individual figures in some political struggle, but to use them in a professional and factual way. That is one of the things we will also have to discuss tomorrow when we first deal with B 54 on the removal of the open tax lists.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210162023	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210162024	The Minister says that the audit must identify errors and shortcomings in the accounts, that there must be proportionality and that it must be compensated for in relation to the social value it provides. There must be a reasonable rent. However, in a recent consultation, we discussed this very point, namely that, compared to what is called compliance, there has been a sharp fall among companies. The Minister himself acknowledged that in half of all accounts half of the country's 670,000 companies' accounts are flawed and lacking. A lot of them are smaller companies. It can be completely excusable errors, misunderstandings, etc. Many of them will not be audited. Most of them will not be audited. Even more disturbing is the fact that in every ten companies, in 67,000 Danish companies, according to these figures, the Treasury's own figures are determined, deliberate cheating and cheating.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210162142	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210162143	I do not really know if there was a question from the questioner. That was more of a comment on the answer I gave. As I said, I believe that a reasonable rent has been found. One might choose to say that all companies need to be audited and that the review in its content needs to be extended to a very, very large extent. This must be borne in mind by the burden it will be on the company and the social benefits it brings. I would like to say that I am willing to look at whether you now have the right audit rules and whether it is now the right group that has been defined, but my starting point is that it can always be discussed, even if it does not belong to my area of responsibility, is that we have found a sensible rental in Denmark, as it is now. And it is, moreover, the same sensible rent that I know was under the previous government, for when companies should be audited and when they should not.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210162228	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210162230	I simply cannot understand why the Minister can continue to say that a reasonable rent has been found. Compliance is currently diving. It's the tax minister's own department's figures that show this. The auditors are yelling guard in the rifle. They say that a bad culture has developed, because over a third of all companies do not think there is any risk of cheating they don't say they do it when you ask them themselves. A bad culture has developed. The tax minister is also the tax minister for all the taxpayers in the country who pay their taxes and all the companies that have accounts that are in order. The Minister for Taxation is also Minister for and has a responsibility towards them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210162318	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210162319	Well, I totally agree with the latter. Of course, I am also a minister for them, and that is why I am also concerned that companies pay the tax they have to pay. I am simply saying in silence that I do not agree with the questioner that it is a Columbus egg to extend the duty of auditing to a large number of companies. I think we will see, depending on the requirements of the audit, that auditing can be beneficial for companies to pay the tax they have to pay. But it can also be just some administrative costs that do not have this beneficial and necessary effect, but are just about meeting some legal requirements. That's why I just ask in all silence that you look at it a little nuanced.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210162355	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210162357	I just have to repeat the figures: Compliance is in free fall. In half of all companies there are errors. Some of those errors could have been avoided if you had audit and thus help. In every ten companies there is outright, deliberate cheating and cheating. After all, the minister is not responsible, at least not the main one, for bringing billions out of the treasury, which also puts pressure on all sorts of other taxpayers. But we see VAT fraud, we see fraud with the refund of dividend tax, we see so many scandals right now. So some of this is about helping those who find it difficult to understand the sometimes complicated rules that there will be a review. So the minister will have to change the rules. We can't live with this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210162449	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210162450	Thank you. Basically, I do not agree with the questioner. The questioner says there's a problem. I agree with that. We need to control more, we need to review more. We could also ask ourselves, as legislators, whether it is we who have made too complicated rules for the country's companies to find out, and this is probably the last place I would start as tax minister. But it is quite right that you could look at whether there is now the right balance. I am just saying, as Minister for Taxation, that I think that is what is happening at the moment, but it is a relevant discussion that is being raised. I'll take it. Which companies are subject to the audit obligation is, in fact, not my responsibility as tax minister, but that of the Minister for Business and Growth. That is why I am sure there is an opportunity to discuss it with him in greater detail.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210162533	Thank you to the Minister and thank you to the author. The question is closed. The next and last question today is to the Minister for Employment, and that is what Mr. Jan Johansen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210162553	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210162600	Thank you. Does the Minister consider it satisfactory that only one in four labour market benefit recipients has received an activation offer in Nyborg Municipality, despite the fact that the 2013 temporary labour market benefit agreement states that all beneficiaries of the temporary labour market benefit have the right and obligation to a business-oriented offer after no later than one month of the temporary benefit?
ParlaMint-DK_20160210162630	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210162633	First of all, thank you for the question. To the extent that the municipalities do not comply with the rules applicable to persons receiving temporary labour market benefits, that is obviously not good enough. The rules for the activation of persons receiving temporary labour market benefits are clear. Persons receiving temporary labour market benefits have the right and the obligation to start work on a company-oriented basis at the latest after four weeks of total unemployment. On the question of whether it is satisfactory that only one in four labour market benefit recipients has received an offer, I would like to mention that this proportion does not necessarily have to be 100%. in e.g. 2015. The reason for this is, among other things, that there may be people in the target group who have already received a legal and compulsory offer in a previous year. Secondly, there may be persons in the inventory who have not been long enough on the benefit to be entitled to an activation course. But having said that, I would also like to say that, on the basis of the article which Mr. Jan Johansen refers to, can read that representatives of Nyborg Municipality indicate that the rules in this area have not been complied with. If that is true, of course it is not satisfactory. I can inform you that Nyborg Municipality has indicated to the Danish Agency for Labour Market and Recruitment that the municipality will ensure that rules for activation are followed in the future. Now, of course, I expect the municipality to live up to that. Secondly, I have now asked the Labour Market and Recruitment Agency and the Labour Market Offices to instruct the municipalities that they must, of course, comply with these rules. It should be remembered that these are people who need the help that job centres can give them in order to get back into the labour market. And, of course, they must have the offers to which they have the right and the duty under the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210162846	The questioner. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210162848	I note that it is not only Nyborg Municipality that has not given sufficient activation and therefore also training to move forward in the labour market. I have a list of all municipalities. There are actually some where the figure is down to 16%. It is probably not true that only 16 per cent should have it. I clearly believe that this was a tool given to the municipalities to help the people who were falling out of the labour market. This has not been achieved with the right and the duty of the municipalities. So there I think the Minister should do something more to give it help to the people they need. Most of all, the minister knows that there is a shortage of labour. That is certainly what the Minister said in the position he came from, so I think that the Minister must do more to get this done. And I also believe that the municipalities that have not lived up to this have an obligation to take hold of them, even if they have gone out of the labour market service, because they have gone on cash benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210162955	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210162958	Thank you. I am aware of and have recently reviewed the very wide variety mentioned by the questioner. I share the view that this is not acceptable. In view of this variation, I have had discussions with the Agency for Labour Market and Recruitment and have asked them to contact the municipalities and instruct the municipalities that the obligations they have here, the rights and duties that the citizens have here, must now be followed by the municipalities. It is the case that we will then follow it closely and also help the municipalities if they need assistance in order to be able to comply with the rules. The rules must be followed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210163051	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210163054	I would like to ask the Minister again what the Minister will do for the people who have fallen out without this help. After all, they are in a disastrous situation where they have gone to cash aid. The whole reform was meant to keep them on the labour market and to give them some skills so that employers could need them. I mean, I just think you have an obligation to these citizens who have now been pickled in the systems because the municipalities have not done their job.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210163126	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210163127	I can confirm that there are challenges in a number of areas here and there is no doubt that, in the wake of the reforms that have taken place in the labour market in recent years, there is a major transformation in the municipalities. But that does not change the fact that I share the questioner's view that once you have got so far away from the labour market that you have now come on cash aid, there is a special obligation for the municipalities to advise these people and support them in making business contacts.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210163209	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210163210	I would also like to ask the Minister: if an unemployed person does not comply with his obligations to the municipality to sign up and so on, he will be punished immediately. Is there any punishment for the municipalities when they fail to comply with their obligations to the citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20160210163224	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210163226	Fortunately, a very broad majority in the Folketing last year decided to carry out the reimbursement reform. In other words, a significant financial penalty has now been imposed on the municipalities if they do not give their citizens effective support in the field of employment to be able to return to the labour market. For then, the maintenance obligation will be up to 80%. in cash transferred to the municipality itself. And that means that the municipality will then fail not only the citizens who need help here but also the other citizens who will have abused the funds that could otherwise be spent on nuclear welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210163305	Thank you to the Minister and thank you to the author. The question is closed. That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160210163315	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 11 February 2016, at 3 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
