ParlaMint-DK_20160517130023	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517130035	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517130056	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments for adoption. There are three proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 60 by René Christensen (DF) and Eva Kjer Hansen (V), and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. For the vote 43 (DF and V), against 64 (S, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 60 has been rejected. The vote will then be taken on the motion for a resolution (Doc. V 59 by Rune Lund (EL), Magnus Heunicke (S), Josephine Fock (ALT), Martin Lidegaard (RV) and Jonas Dahl (SF), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of voting 53 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 56 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 59 is rejected. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) V 61 of Ole Birk Olesen (LA), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 9 (LA), against 99 (S, DF, V, EL, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 61 has been rejected. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517130321	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 57 by Jens Joel (S), Søren Egge Rasmussen (EL), Christian Poll (ALT), Johannes Lebech (RV) and Pia Olsen Dyhr (SF), and voting is possible. The vote is over. In favour of voting 53 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 56 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 57 has been rejected. The vote will then be taken on the motion for a resolution (Doc. V 58 by Mikkel Dencker (DF) and can be voted. The vote is over. In favour of 31 (DF and LA), against 78 (S, V, EL, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 58 has been rejected. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517130446	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517130505	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. In favour, 111 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517130532	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517130550	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is closed. In favour 110 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517130618	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517130636	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. In favour of 56 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 54 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517130659	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517130731	A vote is taken on the final adoption of the bill... the bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister].
ParlaMint-DK_20160517130759	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517130822	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is closed. In favour, 111 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The draft parliamentary resolution has been adopted unanimously and will now be sent to the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517130901	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517130916	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (EL, ALT and SF) and voting is possible. The vote is closed. In favour of 24 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 86 votes (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The proposal has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (S and RV), joined by a minority (EL, ALT and SF), and a vote can be taken. The vote is closed. In favour of 54 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 57 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The proposal has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 3 of a minority (S and RV), joined by a minority (EL, ALT and SF), and can be voted on. The vote is closed. In favour of 54 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 56 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The proposal has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 4 of a minority (S and RV), joined by a minority (EL, ALT and SF), and a vote can be taken. The vote is closed. In favour of 54 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 56 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The proposal has been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517131130	Does anyone wish to speak? Mrs. Mette Reissmann, the Social Democratic Party, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517131146	On 7 November 2014, we witnessed a very good example of why there is every reason to vote against L 146. On 7 November 2014, the Danish company OW Bunker applied for bankruptcy. The bankruptcy petition came as a shock at the time. A few months before, OW Bunker had gone to the Stock Exchange with a terrific debut, the investors were queued up, the business was running as smeared. The truth, however, was not quite so rosy; on the contrary, a few months after the stock exchange listing, it turned out that the work was so creative with the bookkeeping that the balloon jumped with a bang. OW Bunker went bankrupt on 7 November 2014 and took many with him. It spreads large rings in the water when a company that had 2,900 customers in 134 countries during periods and which translated hundreds of millions of kroner a day goes bankrupt. The more than 600 employees employed in OW Bunker were fired, and nearly 20,000 individuals and companies who had invested in the company in the belief that they could rely on the accounting that had taken place now felt the consequences of the accounting in the hard way. Among the investors were several pension funds that invested ordinary, hardworking Danes' savings in a company that they rightly thought could be trusted. Then why is there any reason to tell the story of OW Bunker again? I assume that everyone who is here is familiar with it. That is because, as you know, the proposal enjoys the support of the majority in the blue bloc. So what's the point? The point is simple: OW Bunker's bankruptcy should be the expensive tuition that makes us here in the Folketing together ensure the necessary revision of the companies that are of great importance to society. OW Bunker went bankrupt because the accounts were messed up. The ultimate responsibility is not yet placed, but there is no doubt that the bankruptcy was triggered by creative accounting. We must avoid such situations for all things in the world. It hits Danish jobs, and it hits Danish growth. It therefore requires that we also have an audit system that we can trust. Unfortunately, we have to note that the legislative proposal under consideration now will have exactly the opposite effect. The government's light version of EU rules weakens the role and independence of auditors and, at worst, invites the OW Bunker-size scandals again. With the minimum implementation requested by the government, there are virtually no companies in Jutland that will be subject to the new rules. In particular, there are two parts of the draft law that will have harmful consequences. First, the government chooses to define public-interest companies, the PIE companies, as narrowly as possible. This also means that only listed companies, credit institutions and insurance companies are defined as PIE companies, which place stricter requirements on the audit. This is quite wrong, however, because in Denmark we do have a large number of companies that translate billions of kroner and hundreds of employees who are not affected by that exact definition. The definition includes, for example: not large fund-owned and unlisted public limited companies, family-owned companies or municipal and state companies. This applies, for example, to companies such as Velux, Grundfos, LEGO, ECCO and JYSK. They are of great importance in terms of jobs and local tax revenue. We have KMD, Nets and DONG, which have all or part of US fund owners. They fall outside, too. We have DSB, SEAS-NVE, HOFOR and Falck, which are important utilities. They're falling outside. Then we also have the stray money: the large concentration of capital in funds such as TrygFonden and Realdania. They're falling outside. I think it is obvious to everyone that it will have major social consequences if only one of the companies mentioned went bankrupt because of the roots in the accounts. Secondly, the draft law opens up a huge barn door for conflicts of interest in the context of the review. This also means that a company has to audit a customer's accounts for up to 70%. of the total fee paid by the company to the customer. This means that the other advisory services must amount to as much as 41 per cent. of the total fee, which is far too high. There is a conflict of interest built into the bill, and it is completely unnecessary to allow for that. That is why we also need to safeguard the independence of auditors. As a society, we cannot live with the fact that there can be doubts about the group that acts as representatives of the confidence of society vis-à-vis companies, and the draft law raises doubts about this confidence. At the same time, a number of key companies in our society are exempted. The government's proposal is supported by the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives. I do not want to interfere in how the four parties reach their policy, but I am nevertheless frankly surprised that the memory is so short that nothing has been learned from the OW Bunker Congress, from the Stein Bagger case, from the financial crisis that hurt Denmark so badly. On the political side, we just have to do everything we can to ensure the necessary and independent review of our large companies. Unfortunately, the proposal weakens confidence in the auditors and the audit of Danish key companies. I would therefore like to make a strong appeal to the four parties in the blue bloc to vote in favour of the amendments tabled by the Socialists together with the Radical Left. It's not too late to change your position. I would urge the government not to expose Danish industry to the great uncertainty of introducing vital business regulation with the narrowest possible majority. As far as the position of the Socialists is concerned, I would just like to say that we do not support a proposal that will ultimately play a gambling role with the crucial review of our businesses. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517131800	Thank you to the rapporteur. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517131809	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (S and RV), joined by a minority (EL, ALT and SF), and voting is possible. The vote is closed. In favour of 54 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 56 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2, Acting by a majority? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 3 of a minority (S and RV), joined by a minority (EL, ALT and SF), and can be voted on. The vote is closed. In favour of 54 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 56 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The proposal has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 5, 6 and 22, tabled and joined by the same minorities, lapsed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 4 of a minority (S and RV), joined by a minority (EL, ALT and SF), and a vote can be taken. The vote is closed. In favour of 54 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 56 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 7 - Accession to the Committee? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 8 of a minority (S and RV), joined by a minority (EL, ALT and SF), and a vote can be taken. Has everyone voted? The vote is closed. In favour of 54 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 55 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The proposal has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 16 and 17, submitted and joined by the same minorities, lapsed. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 9 of a minority (DF), joined by a minority (V, LA and CF), which together constitute a majority, on Amendment No. 10 and 11, adopted by a majority (DF, V, LA and CF) or on Amendments Nos. 12, to be elected by a majority (the Committee with the exception of S and RV)? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 14 of a minority (S and RV), joined by a minority (EL, ALT and SF), and a vote can be taken. The vote is closed. In favour of voting 53 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 56 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The proposal has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 13 and joined by the same minorities, lapsed. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 15, adopted by the Committee on Amendment No 15, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 18. adopted by a majority (Committee with the exception of S and RV) or on Amendment No 18. 19-21, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 23-27, adopted by the Committee, or on Amendment No. 23-27, adopted by the Committee. 28 of a minority (DF), elected by a majority (other committee)? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517132208	The debate is open. It's first the Minister of Business and Growth, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517132240	The motion for a resolution called B 141 obliges the government to provide for a derogation which means that Danish mortgage credit institutions will not be covered by the future Basel IV capital requirement. The purpose of the resolution is, according to the proposers, to ensure that the expected future capital requirements for credit institutions do not lead to an increase in the contribution rates for borrowers in mortgage credit institutions. The future capital requirements of the Basel Committee are a matter which the government takes very seriously. That is why I was also recently at a meeting in Stockholm, where I met with the Chairman of the Basel Committee to present the Danish views, and the President showed understanding for the Danish points, which I among other things. at the meeting. I have also discussed the matter in depth with Commissioner Hill. I have done so both in the autumn and as recently as this spring. This was also a constructive and positive dialogue. In practice, however, the Basel Committee's standards for the regulation of credit institutions are only indicative and therefore there are no directly applicable requirements or rules from which credit institutions can be exempted. New capital requirements for the Basel Committee must be introduced into EU legislation before they become binding on EU credit institutions and therefore also on Danish mortgage institutions. However, it is not appropriate to exclude mortgage credit institutions in general from EU rules, since there are also advantages of being subject to a set of rules. Among these benefits is a more favourable status for the issue of mortgage bonds, which is a substantial part of the explanation for the low interest rate paid by borrowers. Therefore, the Government considers that neither institutions nor borrowers will benefit from the exclusion of mortgage credit institutions from EU rules. The government works instead of taking into account special business models such as Danish mortgage when implementing Basel standards in EU legislation through an early recognition of interests. This is happening, among other things. through ongoing contacts with other EU countries, the European Commission, the ECB and others. The government will continue to fight both in the European Union and internationally, to ensure that the Danish mortgage is taken into account, and in view of this and for the other reasons I have now mentioned, the government cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517132509	Thank you, Minister. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line. This is Mrs Mette Reissmann, the Social Democratic Party, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517132526	In the comments to B 141 the proposers write that the Danish mortgage model is unique. I very much agree with the authors of the motion, and the Socialists fully agree that we in the Danish Parliament must work together to ensure our mortgage system. At the same time, however, I would like to make it clear that we need to be very precise in relation to the steps we are taking if we are really to secure our mortgage system. With this in mind, I can say at the outset that the Socialists do not support the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution. However, before I elaborate on the background to this, I would like to stress that this does not mean that we are not very concerned about the widest possible cooperation on this issue. As I said, we need to take the right steps together if we are to secure the mortgage system. And in relation to the specific content of the proposal, the Socialists find the proposal problematic, because it will not be the solution to the challenges of our very system, just as it will only make it much more expensive to borrow money in the mortgage system. First of all, we must remember that the Basel Committee is not a legislative power from which Denmark can simply resign, because we are not a member. But even more importantly, it is the EU system that transforms the Basel Committee's standards in the financial area exactly into real legislation. And Denmark's relationship with the European Union obviously means that there is no possibility, so to speak, of ignoring legislation. In this way, it is hypothetical that, in order to follow the intention of the motion for a resolution, we should be outside the scope of EU regulation, and that would have very unfortunate consequences. If Denmark finds itself outside the EU regulation in this area, it will most likely mean a more difficult and not least more expensive access to finance for Danish home owners and companies. This is simply due to the fact that the low Danish mortgage prices are based on a very high degree of investor confidence in the Danish mortgage market. If Denmark did not, hypothetically, follow EU directives and regulations, international investors would become very skeptical of, among others. Danish mortgage bonds and translate it into that we have something to hide. That would be seen as clearly negative. Interest from foreign investors in investing in Danish mortgage bonds would dive significantly. This would increase the costs for homeowners and businesses because they would find it more difficult to finance their homes and businesses. So, as I mentioned at the outset, it is absolutely crucial that we in the Danish Parliament stand together when it comes to defending our unique and very well-functioning mortgage system. This is not the first time that it is under pressure that it is not the first time that it has been debated outside Denmark's borders. At that time, the solution was the same as it should be today. It is therefore a completely unanimous Parliament that must stand shoulder to shoulder in order simply to have a unified call from the Danish side for the mortgage system to maintain its unique structure. It makes an impression when a united Parliament makes such statements. That is why I think it is unfortunate that in this way there is a solo race on the part of the Enhedslisten with a resolution of this nature. It simply sends the wrong signals to the outside world. I have great respect for the intention behind the proposal, which I think most people in this Chamber also share, and for the same reason we should also stand behind the government when it tells the good story of the strong Danish mortgage system based on facts such as the historically low loss history of mortgage loans, as there are, and insist that that is what is being preserved. That is precisely what makes the crucial difference. I hope that Enhedslisten can also see it from that side, so that we can jointly secure the Danish mortgage system.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517132918	Thank you. Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten, for a comment, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517132921	Thank you and also thank you for the declaration of a certain degree of consensus in the intentions behind the proposal. Of course, we are not making a proposal to run solo races. It is being put forward because it is hoped that it will be adopted. I think that is why we are all making proposals down here. It is not always possible to do so. I acknowledge the Minister's efforts and I would also like to say this in my own rapporteur's speech and I recognise the will there is. What worries us is that Denmark will not be listened to and that we will be in a situation where there are demands being made that will actually undermine our mortgage institutions. Therefore, we would like to send this very clear signal from the Folketing that it must be ensured and that it must be what is being communicated to the European Union when it comes to implementing it. Now we have to see what requirements come from Basel. So what is the rapporteur's position on this if Denmark does not succeed despite the efforts of a united Parliament? Should we then just lay down flat for the European Union, even if it has serious consequences for our mortgage?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517133023	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517133025	I think we should organise the strategy with which we actually had some success, the last time the head of government from Denmark left to negotiate exactly on Danish behalf, that we had our unique mortgage system preserved. I think that the Enhedslisten with Mr. Pelle Dragsted is a post office too early to send signals. The minister is in the process of meeting with the relevant people. As I said, we are not a member of the Basel Committee. We can't resign. And no, we do not intend on the part of the Socialists to join the European Union or not to follow the legislation that comes from the European Union, but we are certainly interested in taking due care at the right time and place in order to fight together and hopefully together with the entire Danish Parliament in order to preserve the unique Danish mortgage system. Because if there is something that worries us, it is if suddenly confidence in the system is shaken, so that it goes and becomes more expensive for Danish home owners and Danish business owners. That would be a real disaster.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517133125	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517133127	But the fact that it is becoming more expensive for the Danish homeowners is unfortunately already a reality. That's what we've been through. Among other things: As a result of these increased demands or prospects of demands, we see this fee screw that just keeps going up and has been doing it for a number of years. That's why we're so worried about this. That is why we are concerned that we should see it again. It is true that we have had some exceptions, but this has not changed the development that all Danish homeowners are experiencing: that they are being pressured on their fees and contribution rates because of the demands that do not take into account what is the special feature of the Danish mortgage, namely what the rapporteur himself describes as such a safe port for investment to the extent that it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517133213	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517133215	I certainly believe that Mr. Pelle Dragsted and I agree that we should be able to protect the Danish mortgage insurance system. Perhaps we are just out on the question of when the battle should be fought and that there is a disagreement about it. Sir. Pelle Dragsted wants it now, and I think it is quite clear that it is a blow in the air, rather than it is actually something that has effect. The Basel Committee is not a gentleman's club where they sit and have drinks. Indeed, it is independent central bank directors from a global financial system who have been appointed to ensure precisely that we do not go into such a terrible financial crisis as we have been up to now and, when they come up with rules, that is carefully thought out. Will it then entail costs of some kind such as what we have seen, among other things. Mr President, with the distortion of fees in the mortgage credit institution system, we have to deal with this in a different direction, which we are also working on, and Mr President-in-Office of the Council knows that. Pelle Dragsted too well. I think that this motion for a resolution is beginning to poke signals beyond the borders of the country, which are clearly going in the opposite direction to what I think Enhedslisten is interested in.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517133327	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Hans Kristian Skibby, Dansk Folkeparti, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517133339	This motion for a resolution, tabled by Enhedslisten, follows on from the debate we had here in the Danish Parliament last week, on Friday, when we dealt with B 99, and also on the developments that have taken place in relation to the very much increasing rates of contributions and price cuts. The reason for the large increases in fees is partly because, as has also been clarified from several quarters in recent months, it can be seen that the capital requirements that have been increased both in relation to the Basel rules and to EU regulations have led to much greater security for Danish mortgages. The motion for a resolution tabled here by Enhedslisten will, of course, oblige the government to provide for a derogation which means that our mortgage credit institutions and mortgage credit associations will not be covered by the future Basel IV capital requirement. It sounds rather enchanting to say that then all things are solved in a good and dignified way, then we are in safe harbour, but I must therefore sadden Enhedslisten that we are not if this becomes a reality. If this becomes a reality, and we do so simply on the basis of half a page detail in the comments to this motion for a resolution should choose to exclude Danish mortgage loans for future Basel IV requirements, this will mean that we will very likely look forward to very strongly increasing interest rates in Denmark, because investor confidence in the mortgage bonds that may be offered in Denmark will be even worse. This has been seen in the past. In fact, during the financial crisis in 2008 and 2009, we in Denmark have been able to observe that contributions rates and price cuts have increased significantly, but in Denmark, unlike many other countries, which have also been through financial crises, interest rates have actually moved downwards. Then why does it have it? It has, because Denmark has shown itself to be a financial helmet. It was a place where you could certainly look forward to a lower gain on your money placements, but in return the money and your funds were in safe harbours. It has been beneficial for Danish bondholders, both those who have admitted mortgages in parcel houses and so on, but also the many Danish companies and not least agriculture, which are in other places hard pressed economically. In the Danish People's Party, we are quite convinced that if you play roulette with this, you will end up in a situation where you will actually get more expensive loans to the Danish mortgage customers, and the Danish People's Party will in no way contribute to that. In fact, we believe that it is important to have continuous certainty about investor confidence in mortgage bonds. Then there is the other side of the matter, that is, of course, the one in which Enhedslisten has a point, and that is of course: what should Denmark submit to future legal regulations that come from outside, even from Basel IV requirements that Denmark does not itself sit at the table to negotiate and which may provide different legislation in relation to new future EU requirements? The Enhedslisten is right in saying that there may be some places where we will have a discussion, including here in the Danish Parliament, about legislation and how we should deal with, for example, new and increased funding requirements, capital requirements from the European Union. We will take them as they come, I would have liked to say, and in the first place we put our trust in the Danish People's Party that the committee of experts, which this September will have to make some recommendations on how to get a more transparent mortgage market in Denmark, providing consumers with far, far better protection also against large contribution rates increases and price cuts. We do that by doing it in, among other things. political cooperation here in the Folketing. That is why all parties are, so to speak, also part of Financial Stability. The vast majority of parties in the Folketing have undertaken to take part in both the little tiredness and unpopular decisions, but at the same time, of course, take responsibility for the overall fiscal action here in Denmark. In fact, I think we can be proud of that here today if we look back at the many years in which we have had a recession, where we have had a decline and where we have had more or less zero growth in Denmark. Denmark has actually managed to get through fairly well compared to many of the countries with which we typically compare ourselves on the international markets, and that is among other things. thanks to very low financing costs in Denmark. Then the Danish People's Party knows that the contribution rates have then cut about 75-80 per cent. I also think that we should remind each other that Denmark is one of the countries where it is possible to finance its properties and values in the most cheap way compared with other countries. So we do not want the Danish People's Party to play roulette from the point of view of imposing this initiative on the government on this basis. We want to be involved in initiatives and we also want to take consumer safety seriously, but it has to be a matter of what recommendations might come from the committee of experts which we know is in the process of making their coal excavation of the entire mortgage area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517133903	Thank you. Sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517133906	I am slightly confused because, on the one hand, the rapporteur says that it would be quite awful if Denmark chose not to be subject to any Basel requirements and, on the other hand, the rapporteur asks whether it is really a problem that Basel or, for that matter, the EU should ultimately decide. So I would really just like to ask the rapporteur because we can choose to introduce exactly the regulation we want in Denmark; we can just adopt that here in the Danish Parliament • whether the rapporteur thinks that it is the EU with the Basel requirements, or whether it is the Folketing that has to decide how we regulate our mortgage.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517133944	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517133945	It is an interaction that must be there in relation to Denmark being a good example in international areas too. And so it is not by making decisions such as the one that lies here, so unmotivated, that we do not know the long-term consequences of it. We need to be sure that when we go in and make legislation in the mortgage field, we are putting on some tightening or whatever we might do in terms of enforcing, for example. the free competition in the Danish mortgage market. We just have to keep in mind that there has to be an unconditional, very, very high investor confidence in Denmark for our mortgage market. There is no such thing if we start going solo and bypassing the international rules of the game. So there isn't. Then it may well be that we can save something on the contribution rate and elsewhere, but it just doesn't change that the risk is significantly greater for us to see that interest rates are getting higher, because the demand for Danish mortgage bonds will be significantly less from foreign investors.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517134046	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517134050	It may sound a little strange when it comes from a member of the Enhedslisten, but I actually think you need to have a little more confidence in those investors. I think they can actually see how the Danish mortgage is doing and how it has made it through the crisis without these demands too. I think it is simply a frightening picture that if Denmark does not follow this regulation to the letter, it will not be possible to refinance the Danish housing bonds. The problem is, of course, if the European Union comes up with legislation which means that the rates of contributions will have to rise again for the Danes. That's what we're trying to do about this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517134129	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517134130	But it's just the wrong medicine at the wrong time. I have to say this to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Now it is also time to make some good recommendations, and I would really like to recommend that Enhedslisten perhaps become a little more united in agreeing to the agreements that have been in Denmark throughout the financial crisis, by joining in Financial Stability, going in and taking responsibility for the entire financial policy in Denmark, ensuring the credibility of Danish mortgage rather than coming up with these types of parade proposals, because that is what it is. It's a parade proposal. The Enhedslisten knows very well that this proposal will never be adopted here in the Folketing. The Enhedslisten knows that we have a committee of experts in the process of making an investigation in this area, and Enhedslisten knows very well that, when we get the recommendations, all the parties behind Financial Stability will, of course, act accordingly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517134217	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517134226	We had a good debate on Friday, among other things. on the rates of contributions and, of course, also the Danish mortgage credit system. The proposal now before us is, after all, a direct follow-up to the debate that took place on Friday, when, fortunately, there was, as expected, clear support for the Danish mortgage system, which we are trying to defend on every occasion. We are trying to highlight the qualities and the security and security that it has provided both for the property owners, but also the investors who have bought the Danish mortgage bonds for decades, indeed for centuries. Therefore, as was also said in the debate the other day, this is an area in which we have taken various initiatives over a long period of time across parties to ensure that the financial regulation that has been necessary on top of the financial crisis has been much of what has been initiated by the EU has also been able to include an understanding of the Danish mortgage system. Virtually all parties in the Folketing have done so on several occasions in order for other countries to understand that the Danish mortgage system is something special and that it should also be possible to accommodate it within a financial regulation that ensures greater financial stability in Europe. It makes very good sense that we have common rules in this area. I do not think that, following the exchange of words between the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party and the authors of the motion for a resolution, it would contribute to the necessary financial stability in Europe if it were to be a national matter, how to organise this field, if each country could run completely according to its own rules. I think it would be possible to imagine some countries that would be looked at with a little concern if those who set it up completely on their own rather than on the basis of common rules, a common understanding that we are, of course, linked as a single economy. As I said, the proposal is that we should exempt Denmark from the Basel IV recommendations. They're not known yet. The Minister explained that initiatives are already being taken. The minister meets with relevant parties to create the understanding of the Danish mortgage system, so that it can also be accommodated within the future capital requirements. The challenge becomes more firm when it is available and then has to be translated into EU directives. I would like to say that we can of course consider whether we in Europe should go very close to the recommendations of the Basel Committee, if, for example, the Americans go rather lighter to them. I believe that the number of financial institutions in Europe covered by the common Basel rules is, of course, significantly greater than they are in the United States, and that is where we must, of course, discuss it with our partners in the European Union when it comes to drawing up the directive, if it is to be done in the best way possible from a European point of view. However, an exception proposed by Enhedslisten does not make much sense. I do not know whether the Enhedslisten will introduce a new EU reservation on the Danish side. I don't think anything good will come of that. I believe that the resilience and security that we salute in the Danish mortgage system is therefore best maintained by having common rules, but of course common rules that contain a clear understanding of the values provided by the Danish mortgage system. If there is no such confidence, and if we do not act within a common framework, we risk, as others have already said, that confidence in Danish mortgage bonds will fall and that we will then see that the property owners will be faced with rising interest rates. It is, of course, the opposite that we would like to see, namely that the costs are as small as possible. And if we throw ourselves into these experiments, yes, one can fear that confidence will fall, and if the investor's confidence falls, then that means that the property owners will get a higher bill. So we cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution by the Left, and I have promised to say that neither can the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517134705	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517134712	I have a little doubt as to what the rapporteur disagrees with in relation to the proposal from the Enhedslisten. What we are proposing is that the government should work to ensure that Danish mortgage credit institutions are not covered by Basel IV requirements to the extent that they will, of course, include the Danish mortgage credit institutions. The reason why this has been raised here is that I know the rapporteur himself took part in an expert meeting in which the mortgage credit institutions, among other things, took part. They are extremely worried about what is coming here and lifted the index finger to such an extent that the warning lights flashed in relation to this. So my question is really just whether the rapporteur agrees that the government must work to ensure that if there is a Basel IV requirement that has inappropriate consequences for Danish mortgage credit, we must do everything we can to ensure in the EU negotiations on the implementation of it that there is an exception for Danish mortgage credit institutions because they are different from the way housing is financed in most other European countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517134825	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517134827	As the rapporteur probably heard, the Minister for Industry and Growth was probably quite clear in his reply. And I have to say that it is a good idea for us to stand together on this issue in the Danish Parliament, so that there are no skewed signals, as some people said, and that it is therefore important that we jointly create an understanding that the Danish mortgage system is robust and contains some values, and that we must of course work for it to happen, just as it happened when the discussion was about • it might be a little technical • what value in the cash flow statement a Danish mortgage bond versus a government bond had. It was a delegation in which I actually think most of the parties of the Folketing were represented, when the Parliament's Business Committee spent a few days in Brussels to talk to, among others. The Commissioner and Members of Parliament, in order to create an understanding that it should be possible to accommodate it, and also succeeded. That is why we are united in this fight.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517134930	Thank you. Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517134934	I think that is very positive. Whether or not this proposal is adopted is not the most important thing. The most important thing is that we end up in a place where we do not have a crippled Danish mortgage institute as a result of some decisions from Basel that we have not been involved in and which are implemented in Danish law. Unfortunately, some of them may be implemented outside the Folketing, because that is some of what is happening with this regulation of the financial sector. I am grateful for the statement of intent, but I do not understand the great criticism of the proposal in this respect.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517135008	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517135010	I think that understanding may be quite central. Should you try to keep the Danish mortgage system completely out of it on the basis of what Enhedslisten says, or should you create an understanding that there is room for them? And there I have to say: I do not think it is a good idea to say that the Danish mortgage system should be kept out of the future rules. I think it is a better idea that it is covered, but covered in a way so that the conditions that characterise the Danish mortgage system can be accommodated within them. It should not be the case that there is no regulation that is trusted, which also applies in the Danish mortgage system.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517135051	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517135100	Thank you. It is, in a sense, a sympathetic motion for a resolution tabled here by the Enhedslisten. There is no doubt that the recommendations that have come from Basel over time to regulate the financial sector very often miss the Danish mortgage model, which is unique and very, very safe. In practice, this means that some requirements are being made for mortgage credit in Denmark, which I would actually say is superfluous, at least when you look at historical developments. In other words, we have a mortgage system, which is probably close to 200 years old, and in which no crisis has ever occurred, that investors have lost as much as a single penny. So the Danish mortgage system is very, very robust, and that is why the regulation that comes from the European Union on the basis of recommendations from Basel is, in our view, largely superfluous, perhaps even to the detriment of the mortgage model and, at least, of society, to the extent that it imposes unnecessary capital requirements, as this means that capital is being kept on something that could otherwise be out of work in society. So it's just to say that we actually understand the proposal and intention. But if we cannot then support the proposal, it is because it is an unworkable proposal in the sense that Basel does not, of course, come up with legislation. They make some recommendations, and then those recommendations are implemented through the European Union. That is why we should actually have tabled a motion for a resolution to exempt Denmark from the regulation in the field of mortgage credit that comes from the European Union. And we do not support resolutions that cannot be implemented in the real world. We think that is a good principle. In addition, as several have mentioned, there is work going on in this area, and we know and have noted with great satisfaction that the current minister is doing quite a lot of work to get Basel to understand the Danish mortgage system, to get the EU to understand it and thus hopefully to have legislation that does not lead to unnecessarily harsh demands on the Danish mortgage system. We think this is very, very important. We do not yet know the requirements. As I understand it, Basel will make some recommendations at the end of the year, and these are some recommendations that one might fear, especially if they make these recommendations to the so-called floor requirements, will hit the mortgage very, very hard and hence Danish home owners very, very hard, and this will lead to very much increased capital requirements for mortgage banks. However, we must wait for the outcome at the end of the year when the recommendations are clear. Finally, I would like to say that I do think there is a paradox in this proposal in relation to the resolution we discussed last week, and here I am thinking of B 99, where there was a desire from the Alternative and Unity List to set a ceiling on contributions. Now we have a motion for a resolution in which, to some extent, there is recognition that there will probably be increased capital requirements for mortgage banks and that everything else will lead to increased contributions for homeowners. So I think there's such a bit of duality in it. On the one hand, we want to set a ceiling for contributions and, on the other hand, we are tabling a motion for a resolution recognising that there will probably be increased capital requirements and therefore, unfortunately, increased contributions. But to sum up: we think it is a sympathetic proposal. We cannot support it, as it cannot be carried out into the real world, as is stated here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517135556	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517135600	[Sound emission]... Then come the sound. Thank you. It is just in relation to the last thing the rapporteur says that we have proposed a ceiling. That is actually not what we proposed. We merely proposed that it should be approved if the rates of contributions were raised and that it should be based on objective criteria, for example. the imposition of capital requirements. It was just for the record. I am sorry if we have formulated the proposal in a way that, in the rapporteur's view, makes it unworkable. The wish has been, and it is also at the end of the remarks, that we should require the government to secure Danish mortgage • and I quote • an exception from future EU directives based on Basel IV requirements. So this is a request for the government to go down to the negotiations and say that we will have an exception when these directives are implemented. Then the former rapporteur said something with either exception or within the framework, and I would say that I do not really care how it is formulated. The short of the long term is just that we must ensure that Danish mortgage loans are not subject to unreasonable demands, which are unnecessary, as the rapporteur says, and which can therefore cost Danish property owners a great deal of money.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517135724	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517135726	I think we all share that intention here in the Danish Parliament, and that also leads me to say that, as a united Parliament, we should perhaps use our powers on what we actually agree on, namely to send out a clear signal to the European Union that we do not want regulation, which destroys the rather unique model that we have here. We just don't think this is the right way to do it. To return to B 99, if I can make it quickly, I am well aware that that proposal provided for an increase in contributions if it were due to an increase in capital requirements, but it also says something about how rigid that resolution was. Because, by virtue of what is also recognised here, there will probably be increased contributions, we think it is really important that we do not set a ceiling on it, so that there is flexibility for mortgage credit institutions, so that they can show due care and adapt to demands that are expected to come.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517135843	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517135846	I think we should save the debate on B 99 for committee work or any other reading, because I do not agree with the rapporteur's presentation. But whether this is the wrong or the right way to put it forward as a motion for a resolution can always be discussed. If it were adopted, it would be a fairly clear signal to the European Union. For me, however, it is really only important to get the statements that have also been made from the rapporteur here from the platform that it is a united Parliament that is behind it and doing everything in our power to prevent new capital requirements, which do not take account of Danish circumstances at all, from being implemented.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517135923	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517135925	But we agree on that. I would like to congratulate Enhedslisten on the rare opportunity I have, but when you have the opportunity to do so, you must of course do so in order to raise a debate where we agree on what should I say? I think there is a broad consensus on this in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517140003	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517140010	Thank you. I am standing here on behalf of my colleague, who is the rapporteur on this matter, Mr President. Rasmus Nordqvist. We have seen the Enhedslisten's proposal as precisely an attempt to ensure that we are united as Parliament and that the Basel capital requirements will not be something that, in general, overlooks the systems of each country. And the Danish mortgage market is so worth taking care of, and that's why we've had a little ambivalent about what to say to this. So we are going to say that because of the good dialogue that has been held with the Minister in this area and because of the good dialogue that has been held with the Commissioner, we are actually confident that we are in the right process. We are going to vote blank because we do not think this is the right solution to get through what Enhedslisten really wants. However, we are pleased that the debate has taken place and it seems that everyone agrees that we must safeguard the Danish mortgage system.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517140108	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517140121	It's kind of nice to hear a united Parliament who wants to defend the Danish mortgage. And it must also be said that after minister, government after government has travelled Europe and elsewhere thinly to try to explain the very special Danish model, and this has sometimes been achieved. Last time it was the liquidity requirements, how liquid the Danish bonds were and now we are discussing capital requirements. And I think that is worth sticking to, because one must then assume, when we all have this interest, that our minister really does everything he can to defend the Danish mortgage. So, when Enhedslisten today wants us to decide that we exclude Danish mortgage institutions from a capital requirement, if there should be one at this time, I would say that one would actually give the Minister a worse negotiating position, so that he should go around to his colleagues and say: "You must be accommodating to us, you must listen to our demands, but if you do not want to, then we will just jump out of the whole party. I would say that if you have tried to operate in that system, and I can't blame Enhedslisten for not having done so, you will see that we will actually give the Minister poorer cards if we adopt this proposal today. There are also a large number of other problems with this proposal, which I think is very much marked by the fact that we should not sit around and think about what would happen if this were to happen, but which is more symbolically political in nature. Politically, it is a bad signal, as the Social Democrat rapporteur also pointed out, to send to the rest of Europe, that we do not agree in this Chamber and that we are now voting against each other if the Enhedslisten chooses to put it to the vote here. It must also be said that a large number of other countries have an interest in obtaining exemptions from these requirements. Our reasons are economic; in fact, it is because the Danish mortgage is very secure and we have too good economic reasons to get it exempted. So there are also a large number of countries for whom they are political, and that will mean that we can get on with some who are actually out to create exactly what Enhedslisten on his website writes about, namely a speculative financial system they write that the financial crisis was created by a speculative financial system. This means that the Enhedslisten has been very concerned about trying to avoid a financial crisis, and the rules we are discussing right now are intended to avoid a new financial crisis. And if Denmark then says that we will have exempted ours, no matter what, then there will be other European countries and all sorts of other countries that say that they will have exempted it and that. And then you help create instability throughout the market. So we think it's a bad idea. Then there are also a number of economic reasons why it would be bad for Danish consumers to adopt the Enhedslisten resolution. When we look at the Danish mortgage, there is approx. 2,000 billion. kr., and 650 billion. kr. of them are owned by foreign investors. This means that one third of the shares are held by foreign investors. If you do something other than do what the government is doing right now, which is to fight for more lenient demands, if you actually go out and say that you exclude, no matter what, you actually create a second-class investment. Then it is only the Danish Government that is on the target for this, and then there are no international institutions that can say that this is a good investment. And that means that compared to 650 billion. kr. Of the billions invested by foreigners in the Danish system, one will consider whether they will be in this second-class investment, and that means increasing interest rates. Then it may well be that Enhedslisten thinks it sounds very nice to say to consumers that they were making sure that they did not get higher rates of contributions because there were some demands that you would like to have on one day, but that you do not like when they hit us, but then they get rising interest rates. Congratulations, thank you! And that is why you must always think about what you sit and decide in Parliament, actually having consequences out in the real world. Denmark has a good and strong mortgage system. It's not a joke; it's not something we have to play with. This is something in which we must support the government that is in office at all times, which, by force and force, is trying to fight to get this through. And so I simply cannot understand why it is time to rock the boat to get some cheap points, instead of sticking to the community we have in Denmark and the clear signal we have to back up the mortgage. So the Radical Left cannot support this proposal because it will make it more expensive for citizens and it is economically and politically irresponsible.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517140548	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. Yeah, there is anyway. You gotta keep in touch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517140559	Thank you, President. I find it a pity that the arrogance, that is, the condescending way in which the rapporteur speaks to me and my party. I think that is quite unnecessary; it is fine that you can disagree on something. But it must stand at the rapporteur's own expense. What we are proposing in this motion for a resolution is, in fact, very much what has also been decided since then in a circle that we have not been invited into, namely that Denmark should work to protect the Danish mortgage. So, what we're writing is that when these Basel requirements are to be implemented as directives, we have to seek an exception to that part of the legislation that may be detrimental to the Danish mortgage. So I do not understand at all that the rapporteur can to this extent paint himself into a corner of a proposal in which the whole parliament shares the intention. After all, we are not suggesting that we should resign from the European Union. We just suggest that the government, when it comes to negotiating through this, should ensure that there are elements in what is in Basel requirements that are a problem and that can create some major challenges in the Danish mortgage credit institutions that an exception is sought from them. So, yes, I do not understand either the tone or the rapporteur's approach to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517140718	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517140721	If the Enhedslisten believes that what is being proposed now is what the government is doing, why is it that it is being taken in the Parliamentary Chamber today? Why is it that the government should be required to do what it already does? It reminds me a bit of my mother telling me to take the cups out of the dishwasher while I'm doing it. What is the point if what is actually going to be the result is that people now cannot understand why we are sitting in Parliament and discussing it here? Is it that then Enhedslisten can stand up and say that you have done everything you can, and now that there are new demands, is it not their fault instead of trying to go in and take responsibility and solve the problems? That is what we are doing in that conciliation circle. We're gonna have to sit here and have this hang together. And that's why we don't think it's a joke when you go out and make the Danish negotiating position worse. Sir. Pelle Dragsted stood earlier and said: Well, we just said that the government should do what it does. Then I just have to say: no, that is not what the proposal says. It states that Parliament will be required to ensure an exemption scheme which means that the Danish mortgage will not be covered by the future Basel IV capital requirement. This means that the Minister must say: Parliament has decided that we are not in, no matter what. That is a worse negotiating position. This is serious.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517140834	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517140836	Then I think that the rapporteur should also read the comments on the proposal. I am sorry if we have formulated ourselves in a way that can be misunderstood. However, what we are saying is that what we have experienced so far is, unfortunately, that some directives have been implemented by law in the Folketing, some of them by direct implementation, some of which have been harmful, which have been unnecessary and which have imposed some things on our mortgage, that is, because it has come from the European Union. Why are we proposing this now? That is because we think it will send a signal to the current government that this is something which is very much at the heart of all the parties. Now we have some statements today, and I think that is very positive. And I do not understand at all the belligerent attitude that the rapporteur of the Radicals chooses to take on this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517140919	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517140921	It's because this is serious. It's really serious what Denmark sends out of signals in this situation. If we are concerned about what our citizens have to pay for our mortgage; if we are concerned that it should be as stable as possible, then we should not be standing here in the Chamber looking like a divided Parliament. Then we have to back our minister. But I am glad that Enhedslisten has changed tone of voice, that is to say, that it is believed that what the government is doing right now is absolutely right. It's rare for me to stand here and say this from Parliament's platform, but right here I think that we should back up the government because they are actually fighting a case for Denmark and not stand down here in the Parliament hall and cast doubt on what is really Denmark's position.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517141003	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more comments, and then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517141021	I really think it is gratifying that we have heard most of the parties or I think it is all parties that support Danish mortgages and, as several have said, it is also a battle that has been going on for years now, to convince the rest of Europe that we have a very robust and secure system. I also think it is very gratifying to hear from some of the parties that have practically taken on capital requirements, that suddenly there is a very, very unique support for the fact that it is together that we have to formulate these demands and that it is the fight in the European Union that we have to take because the background is so serious. After all, we have not introduced capital requirements for fun, but because we have been in a totally destructive crisis, and therefore there is good reason to have those capital requirements, and I think it is also nice to have confirmation from some of the parties that may have been very critical of them in the past. I fully share the intention of Enhedslisten to make this proposal, that is to say that we want to show that the mortgage must also have a special place in the forthcoming negotiations. I would therefore like to say that I think it would be very good if we could write in committee a joint report repeating what all the rapporteurs have said from up here, so that is what we want and that is what I hear the Minister say that the Danish Government wants and where we get this in writing. And with the comments that have fallen from up here, it sounds as if it was something that could be done. The SF does not entirely agree with the way in which the proposal is formulated. But we fully agree with the intention, and that is why I also hope that now, when I hear that there is no support for the proposal, we will go that way and take the discussion in committee instead and write in that we place a great deal of emphasis on the government doing everything it can, and I think that it actually does. I think this is one of the few areas where it doesn't matter whether you have a black, a red, a blue or a green government, i.e. that Danish mortgage is crucial for the Danish economy and for some relatively cheap mortgage for people. I also do not want this discussion to take place, and I certainly do not think that Enhedslisten wants that, otherwise I should know them very badly. I also read the proposal here, as if capital requirements are of the right kind and the right institutions are of the right kind, and with regard to capital requirements in relation to Danish mortgage loans, we also have to get the European Union in. For that is where, technically speaking, Basel requirements must be directed before they become Danish legislation, and so there is quite a difference between who is to receive what requirements. So, with these comments, I hope that all parties will be involved in a report that very clearly states what is a common wish of the Folketing and also of the government and the minister, as I hear, but that we may also get a passage in that it is very good to have capital requirements in the right place and to the right institutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517141358	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517141407	Thank you for the debate. It has been a good debate and I think I would like to start by saying that it is very positive that there is such a clear concern about where the Basel IV requirements might end. And that is no wonder, because most of us have sat in expert hearings and other things and have heard the great concern that there is. It is also, of course, because we have seen what has happened. It has not, of course, been overlooked by many people that in January, I think, a dull bill from Nykredit and Totalkredit landed at a great many Danish homeowners, where the rates of contributions were raised, on the grounds that they were worried that these demands would rise. So that is basically the starting point for our resolution. Then some things have been said which I am a little sorry about, namely that there should be solo running and parade proposals and tactics. Actually, there isn't. We made this proposal because this case was in high gear because we are worried and think it would be a good idea to have a debate on it in the Assembly. We are quite prepared to land it here in a memorable manner if a report can be agreed in committee. A concern was also raised as to whether a Danish exception and special rules would mean that investors' confidence would fall. I fully acknowledge the concern, but there is also a concern about what can happen if we are subject to capital requirements, which means that our mortgage institutions have to raise the contribution rates significantly or capitalise in a way that they cannot. Let us just imagine that the rates of contributions were raised even more. What can this not lead to from foreclosures and other things that can also weaken confidence in the Danish mortgage system? So it is actually on the basis of an honest concern that we are making this proposal. I would also like to thank the Minister. I have, of course, followed the initiatives that have been taken and the meeting that has been held, and I have also noted a very sharp wording from the Minister to draw a line in the sand. I think that is what was said at the meeting, and that is what we would like to see with this proposal, in other words draw a line in the sand and say that this is something that so much concerns us here in Denmark. I will not repeat what this is all about. But you could say that there are more concerns associated with this. One thing, of course, is the question of the cost of the Danes' loans. A lot of us have loans, and that is an important part of our private economy. In here we talk a lot about, for example. tax, and if there is a small tax increase, it is really something that can get many out of the chairs, and if you get a tax relief of DKK 100. a month, it is something that every government celebrates with pomp and splendor. However, many people who have received such a letter from a mortgage institution have lost hundreds of kroner a month in contributions rates. So this is a matter that we need to take seriously. That's one side of it. The other side of this is something we are really sorry about in Enhedslisten, and that is that these demands are of course instrumental in pushing forward a development where mortgage banks stop being what they have been in Danish history, namely customer-owned and customer-controlled mortgage institutions. It is something very unique about the Danish mortgage institutions, what many have talked about. They are actually owned by customers or owned by customers. Unfortunately, there is only one of them left; the rest has been swallowed up by large financial supermarkets, such as the United States. Danske Bank. Nykredit is still owned by Nykredit's customers, and it is a really brilliant scheme, because that means that if it is the customers who own the mortgage bank, then of course no higher contribution rates are charged than necessary. Why should you raise your own contribution rates? But when a bank and private shareholders come in as owners, suddenly it's something else, because the rates of contributions are a handle you can turn on to increase your earnings. And that's what you see. Nykredit has, of course, justified their desire to go to the stock exchange with these new capital requirements. One can then discuss whether that argument is real or not. I have my doubts, but that is at least the argument that Nykredit uses. The demands that are made from Basel, where we do not sit at the table at all, and which are later implemented by the EU, can in other words help to undermine something that I think is so important and has been such a good part of the Danish mortgage system, that is, basically a kind of cooperative idea which has meant that we have had a more transparent and more democratic and not least cheaper housing funding in Denmark. So also for that reason, i.e. these capital requirements undermine our ability to maintain the cooperative, association-based, customer-owned, customer-controlled credit system, it is so important that we have the Danish mortgage institutions shielded against requirements that are unnecessary and that are not adapted at all to the mortgage system we have in Denmark. Because, of course, I fully agree with regulation; we are not opposed to regulation. Nor are we opposed to international agreements on the regulation of financial institutions. It is just important that it is a regulation which does not become such a one size fits all, but which actually takes into account the particularities of the individual countries. Then I know, as the rapporteur for the Radicals says, that there are, of course, also countries which do not have such serious intentions when this sort of thing is to be negotiated, and of course there are. But in our case, in Denmark's case, I think it is quite real. Therefore, it is also positive that the government has taken such a proactive approach to it. So again, I just want to say thank you for a good debate. I hope that in committee we can adopt a report which, if I may say so, gives the government a backlash. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517142148	Thank you. There are some brief comments. First, it is from Mrs Mette Reissmann, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517142152	Thank you. Well, I would say that one can be really confused on top of one's head by listening to Mr. Pelle Dragsted today. He has tabled a motion for a resolution which says:'and I quote: '... guaranteeing Danish mortgage credit an exemption from future EU directives based on Basel IV requirements. Well, that's what it says, and that's what we're discussing today. We are not discussing the rates of contributions, because we have done so. We did that on Friday. So don't mix all that into it. What annoys me, of course, is that it is as if the Enhedslisten believes that all other parties are not aware of the enormous risk we would be taking if we suddenly pursued such a sentence and did so, as Mr. Apparently, Pelle Dragsted wants it. Well, I agree with Mr. Knox. Pelle Dragsted in that one size doesn't fit all; we know that. But don't talk down to the other parties in the Danish Parliament like we're not familiar with this risk. We are the problem, after all, that the European Union may not even be able or will not be able to count correctly when it is the case that we are talking about the different classes of risk assets. That is what the Minister is doing, together with the whole financial sector, to make them understand how things are to be counted. That is what is at the heart of today's debate; it is not the rates of contributions as such. I just want to say that it is all to ensure the robustness of the Danish mortgage system. Does the Enhedslisten not recognise the need to have capital requirements for mortgage institutions in order to maintain a solid and sustainable mortgage system?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517142310	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517142313	Again, I have to say, I am a little puzzled by the belligerentness of war. I certainly do not think I have spoken down to other parties, on the contrary. I have thus seen the receipt for a good debate. Well, that's the main argument for Nykredit raising their contribution rates. They have been out saying that it is because of the expectation of new capital requirements. So the two debates cannot be separated. Whether or not we have formulated the proposal a little harshly, I am, in fact, open to discussion. The aim of the proposal has been to send a clear signal from the Folketing that the government should seek to exempt the Danish mortgage institutions from capital requirements which are unnecessary. Because, of course, there are capital requirements that are necessary, but I think we all agree that this is at least the experience that I have had at committee meetings ■ that some of the capital requirements that have come and appear to be coming simply do not take into account the speciality of the Danish mortgage institutions. In other words, the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance raised the issue of flooring requirements, which would, of course, be completely hollow in the head, because this would mean that the most secure investments would be more expensive than the more uncertain ones. This is certainly not something that prevents new financial crises.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517142435	Mrs. Mette Reissmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517142438	In other words, we could have taken that debate in committee, among other things. instead of bringing it down here in the Assembly Hall, but the Enhedslisten then chose not to do so. Everyone thinks that their mortgage market is special. The Americans also said so shortly before their entire market broke completely into a huge economic disaster for the homeowners. The rapporteur is based on what he says, among other things. Come on in his question to Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, about Denmark having confidence that investors can understand if Denmark does not want to be or is subject to the Basel rules?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517142515	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517142517	I don't think that's someone I stand alone with. The Danish mortgage bonds and I also think it was something that the rapporteur, and it is quite strange that there may be an agreement between the Enhedslisten and the Liberal Alliance in this case, pointed to the fact that there have been many crises. This is due to the fact that it will be a little too technical if I have to go into the special design that is unique to Denmark and through which mortgage bonds are issued and the way they are refinanced. It is just different from the system they have in other countries, which means that there is huge investor confidence in them. I would like to stress once again that I do not propose that Denmark should stand outside. I or we have in this proposal wanted to send out a signal that the government should ensure that we get an exception for that part of the rules that could tighten up what is the special feature of the Danish mortgage system. And no, we're staying here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517142620	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby, Dansk Folkeparti, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517142624	Thank you. I'd like to dwell on the contribution rates. Because I also recognize that Mr. Pelle Dragsted says that everything else is in fact very much related to the fact that any future capital requirements also have an impact on the current handling of contributions rates in Denmark. If you look at the total contribution rates and price cut fees that were in 2015, we see that it reached 22 billion. kr., which they took from those who have loans. If you go back to 2003, it was only 6 billion. kr., so you can say that there has been a nice big increase. Even when we received the figures for 2013, we could see that the total contribution rates and price cut charges had increased to 12 billion. kr. That is to say, over a billion. kr. in the month, people had to pay extraordinaryly at these rates of contributions. At the time, the Danish People's Party chose to go out and ask for a mortgage commission to investigate all the long-term consequences of this, and there Enhedslisten was astonishingly silent. They simply did not support us. No one went out and said: well, it was a good idea with a mortgage commission to look at why these rates of contribution are increasing so much. There I would like the rapporteur to answer why Enhedslisten did not support having a mortgage commission in 2014.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517142741	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517142743	Now I wasn't in the Danish Parliament myself in 2014. I used to work in here, but I really don't remember. And if we have not supported such a proposal, it may have been a mistake. I think we have been very concerned about the question of mortgage credit, so if it has just been the wording of the Danish People's Party's proposal that has made the impact, I cannot say. However, there is no doubt about this and it is therefore also positive that a group of experts has been set up that there is a need to have a look at this. And that was among other things. The proposal put forward by the Enhedslisten together with the Alternative and SF, which we discussed last week, was about the need to look at whether a new form of regulation is needed, such as: I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal. Because I fully agree that what we fear is that these contributions will be such a kind of money machine for the major financial institutions. There they can turn up because it is very difficult for consumers to move from one mortgage to another. So I think we fully share that view, and I should only praise the Danish People's Party for being here in the shoes. I think we ourselves have been in this same period.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517142856	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517142858	Yes, but I do recognize that Mr. Pelle Dragsted... [Sound Outfall]... and why you chose not to do so. We are just wondering, as we can see, that on Friday we discussed B 99 on the rates of contributions and price cut fees, and we are already discussing a new resolution here today, on Tuesday the following week, which deals with roughly the same challenges, one might say. Then you might be left with an amazement as to why Enhedslisten was so silent in 2014 when we came up with the proposal for a mortgage commission. It was Enhedslisten not alone in that no one actually went out and supported us. But now that there was a big popular applause to go into the breach for this, we find Enhedslisten a lot in the field. That's kind of just what I'm wondering.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517142952	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517142953	I don't think so, and I don't remember that the Danish People's Party ever made it as a proposal in the Assembly Hall and thus tested the support. I am quite sure that Enhedslisten would have supported such a proposal. But if we haven't been enough in the shoes, I'm sorry. I do not think that has been the case. When we have made two proposals we had one before last week and have one now considered it because it is two different themes. One is about how we here in Denmark can regulate within the framework we have here. The second proposal is on how to protect Danish mortgage institutions from rules that can come from outside the EU and that can cause problems for homeowners.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517143030	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Ida Auken. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517143033	Thank you very much. After all, I took Enhedslisten's proposal very seriously and thought it meant what it says. For it says that it will ensure that the Danish mortgage institutions will not be included in the future Basel IV. If it is adopted in the Folketing, it will mean that we will send the ministers off with a message that if we do not get our way, we will just make an exception ourselves. Now I can understand through the debate that that is not what Enhedslisten wants. A clear signal will be sent to the government to do what it already does. Then Mr. Pelle Dragsted does not just explain to me which of the two things you mean: do you mean what is in the proposal, or do you just want to tell the government that it should do what it already does?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517143109	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517143111	Now there is a slight difference between whether a government talks about something it does or whether it is the case that the government has a political majority, for example. has been marked by a vote in the Folketing or by a report in a committee. It means something to a government whether there is a majority that has expressed a position in writing. That's how we use our people's rule. It's to send that kind of signals. And the comments on the proposal show that what we want is for Danish mortgage credit to be guaranteed an exemption from future EU directives based on Basel IV requirements, provided, of course, that these Basel IV requirements, which we do not yet know at all, have a negative impact on the Danish mortgage credit institutions. I recognise that the rapporteur of the Radicals disagrees with the approach, and I am, in fact, very open to discussing this. It seems to me that this was about getting an expression from the Folketing, which the government might also use offensively. The rapporteur believes that this would make the Minister weaker in negotiations with other countries. It could also be that it would make the Minister stronger.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517143214	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517143216	Now the difference between how Enhedslisten and those who have tried to sit and negotiate in these systems is looking at the world, very big. For example, the Enhedslisten could: ensure that we did not smoke out of Europol, but when it comes to putting it into effect, we have not made a single proposal on how Denmark should ensure that we do not smoke out of Europol. It is the same here: if you send a minister with a mandate that says that it does not matter what comes out of these negotiations, because we simply adopt something else and make an exception ourselves, then you have put your minister at a disadvantage. Does the Enhedslisten agree that what is being proposed here is to send the Minister off with a requirement that we exempt Danish mortgage loans from Basel IV requirements should they come? That is what the proposal says. We have to take Enhedslisten at his word.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517143257	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517143258	So, I do not know whether the radical rapporteur has slept badly last night or why it is such a belligerent behavior that the rapporteur is going to experience today. What is this nonsense, excuse me, which is being said about Europol? We helped to give a mandate on Friday to negotiate a parallel agreement on Europol, so stop this kind of deception here in the Folketing. In relation to what we are proposing, it is very clear. We propose that the government should ensure an exception. When these EU directives are to implement Basel IV, the government must ensure that if there is any inappropriate legislation that could undermine Danish mortgage loans, then one should seek to obtain Danish mortgage loans, as well as in other cases exceptions for Danish mortgage loans have been granted in recent years.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517143350	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517143355	So, I think it is only Enhedslisten who has had doubts as to whether there has been broad political support for the Danish mortgage system. We have been watching the Danish mortgage system for several times, for a long time, across political parties in the Danish parliament and taking the battles to be taken internationally. And then it is a bit of a statement that now Enhedslisten is being taken into account that what you have done is wrong. I think it would be honest to say that it was a mistake to table this motion for a resolution because, as Mrs Ida Auken says, that wording would be detrimental to Denmark. We can all make mistakes, and that is why it would be liberating if the Enhedslisten would admit that this resolution was in fact a skew in relation to what is otherwise widely supported politically, namely the Danish mortgage system.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517143443	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517143445	Well, as a general rule, I have no objection to recognising errors, but I do not actually see that it is a problem or a mistake that we in the Danish Parliament have today had the debate that we have had and that we can probably conclude in committee with a report that we agree on not just in a conciliation circle where some particular parties have been invited, but perhaps with the support of all the parties of the Danish Parliament. I think that would be a strong signal. In fact, I think it would be positive for the government to have such a report in the back when it comes to going down and negotiating. So, no, I'm open to discussion, but I don't think this proposal is a mistake. I think we have had a good debate and I am sure that it can lead to a good report in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517143524	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517143527	After all, it is a recognition that a report in committee which says something other than what is stated in the motion for a resolution is better than the motion for a resolution when it is the report from the Enhedslisten. For what is stated in the motion for a resolution will cause problems, and that is just the realization that I was hoping that Enhedslisten would be ready to express from the platform that it would be inappropriate to implement the motion for a resolution in relation to what is the broad political desire, namely support for the Danish mortgage system. If the Folketing adopted this proposal, it would put the government and Denmark in a worse negotiating position. That's how you get to make a crook every now and then. It would just be liberating if Enhedslisten would say so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517143608	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517143611	I think it is a little funny, a little funny, that the rapporteur, after the rapporteur, has actually been up here saying that the purpose of the proposal was agreed. It seems a little like it must not be something that the Enhedslisten gets adopted. I would like it to be adopted, but I cannot say that I am not going to succeed, and that is why I think that a report in committee is a very good idea. When we are a little concerned, it is also because we often find that when something comes down from the European Union, a number of parties here in the Folketing are clapping their heels together and implementing it without further comments.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517143647	Thank you, sir. Pelle Dragsted. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517143706	The debate is open and I give the floor to the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517143727	The motion for a resolution instructs the government to set up a Commission on Freedom of expression during the current parliamentary year. The Commission must assess the conditions for freedom of expression in Denmark and propose ways of strengthening freedom of expression. The authors of the proposals have the background to the proposal, among other things. stated that the social development of recent years has meant that freedom of expression is used in public spaces under substantially different conditions than in the past. In this context, you have among other things. Reference is made to increased use of social media, increased globalisation, as well as new tools for combating terrorism, including mass monitoring. In addition, the proposers have referred to the establishment in Norway of a Commission on Freedom of Expression in the 1990s. I agree with the proposers that we should safeguard freedom of expression. It is a key element in any well-functioning democracy, and therefore the government works to ensure freedom of expression the best possible conditions in Denmark. I can already reveal that, in my view, freedom of expression has good conditions at home. This is not least due to the fact that here in the Folketing we have a long and proud tradition of discussing where the framework for example. freedom of speech must be precise. In this respect, I also welcome the motion for a resolution. Freedom of expression is, among other things, freedom of expression. protected by the Constitution, the European Convention on Human Rights and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. Under Paragraph 77 of the Constitution, anyone is entitled to publish his thoughts in print, in writing and in speech, but under the responsibility of the courts. Censorship and other preventive measures can never again be introduced. The provision protects all persons, all types of expressions and any form of communication. The Constitution protects formal freedom of expression, i.e.: the right to publish its statements, but on the contrary it is assumed that the Constitution does not protect material freedom of expression, i.e. freedom of expression. the right not to be subject to sanctions for certain types of utterances. Material freedom of expression is, on the other hand, among other things. protected in Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights and in Article 11 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. Protection is identical according to the two provisions, and I will therefore confine my attention to Article 10 of the Convention on Human Rights. Under Article 10, everyone has the right to freedom of expression. The provision includes both the right to make utterances and the right to receive utterances. The protection provided for in Article 10 shall not be unlimited. Freedom of expression and information may be infringed if the intervention is provided for by law and is necessary in a democratic society for the sake of inter alia: national security, public security and other rights. Both the Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights therefore lay down certain external limits for freedom of expression. When it comes to the Constitution, it is about protecting against censorship, and when it comes to the Convention on Human Rights, it is about protecting against censorship. That the Member States must act against utterances only if there is good reason to do so. It also follows that, overall, the legislative power is left quite a broad framework when it comes to defining the limits for the exercise of freedom of expression in Denmark. This framework has been used by the Folketing to lay down legislation in a number of areas restricting freedom of expression. This is true, for example. the rules laid down in Chapter 27 of the Criminal Code on violations of peace and honour and the provisions of the Administrative Act on professional secrecy. Every time this has happened, we have had a thorough debate on it in the Folketing, and so it must be. As the authors of the motion state in the explanatory statement of the proposal, the changes in society obviously also have an impact on the framework of freedom of expression, both in positive and negative terms. For example: The increase in globalisation and the spread of the Internet mean that today we can share information and thoughts with far more people than before. It is basically a positive development that enables us to influence others around the world and even to be influenced by it. But developments also present challenges. For example: It means that people abroad who want to hurt Denmark have considerably easier to spread hateful propaganda to people in this country. And this means that we need to consider whether we need to give the authorities new tools to allow them to take action against them. These considerations must take place in the Folketing. In this context, I should like to mention that the government is currently negotiating with the majority of Parliament's parties on the fight against religious preachers, and the government intends to do so, among other things. to discuss the issue of criminalising utterances. It is a difficult issue which, if implemented, will lead to a reduction in freedom of expression, which is why it is also crucial that we have a course of negotiations in which all arguments can be brought to light. If I should briefly summarise the key points in my speech, I would say that freedom of expression has basically good conditions in Denmark. It is up to the legislature to lay down the framework for freedom of expression within the scope of inter alia. the Constitution and the Convention on Human Rights. We have a long and proud tradition of discussing in the Folketing issues of enlargement and restriction of freedom of expression. This is precisely what the current negotiations on religious ministers are expressing, and the negotiations are thus also an expression of the fact that the law-making authority is ensuring that freedom of expression is taken into account in a safe manner. Against this background, it is not the government's view that there is a basis for carrying out extensive Commission work, and so it has also been said that the government cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517144309	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517144316	Thank you for the Minister of Justice's words. We often have these debates on legal certainty, freedom of expression and so on, and I always think it sounds as if the Minister has put the emphasis on and opposed it and has actually considered the various options that exist. However, I believe that, especially at a time like this, when there are a lot of proposals on the table, when it is being discussed, how far we want to go in defence of freedom of expression, the values that are being talked about when we see attacks around Europe, it might just be good to have the really big discussion about freedom of expression, which has been very much focused on for 10 years at least in Denmark. So despite the fact that the Minister thinks that freedom of expression is good in this country, although there are some challenges that are part of what the government is debating right now, why would it not be good to have the big discussion, get some people with different views than ours in favour of discussing some of what is most Danish and some of what we all pay the most tribute to?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517144434	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517144436	Frankly, I very much doubt that there would be other views than ours. This is the amazing thing about the Danish People's Rule, namely that in this Parliament the views are represented widely. We have had this discussion, at least since the Mohammed drawings, where people have been given the opportunity to change their position as well and get a different approach to these issues. So my experience is that, and it is also my conclusion that this debate is lively, not least here in the Parliamentary Chamber, and at the same time it has been going on for a long time, so that all the views have actually been reversed and people have been given the opportunity to clarify where they really are in that debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517144523	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517144527	Then let me rephrase it. Because of the media coverage, which may be where you have 10 seconds to say whether you are for or against, it will of course, when it comes from us, be political points of view, but that work could also bring in other points of view. You could do a thorough job in terms of freedom of expression, not only historically, but also in relation to the new challenges that are, with new media, etc., and in relation to the new legal challenges that we face in relation to our international commitments. The latter was mostly a comment, because I have heard that the Minister does not think it is necessary to set up such a commission.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517144612	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517144614	I just have the experience that this is something we have actually spent a lot of effort discussing and continuing to discuss in the Danish People's Rule. I think it is a healthy discussion we have and I find it difficult to see what a commission should add that discourse. I have to admit that. I mean, we get around the edges of the room well, and it's an often seen discussion we have. So I have to say that this is not something the government can support.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517144644	Thank you, Minister. The next speaker is Mrs Trine Bramsen as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517144653	The proposal here requires the government to set up a so-called Freedom of Freedom Commission. Let me begin by stating that the Socialists have historically fought for freedom of expression, and we continue to do so. Denmark must be the country where there is a broad framework for discussing, writing, speaking and drawing. There is today, and so it must be in the future. But with the right to express itself, there is also a duty to think about before expressing oneself. As in all other areas, it is not always right and duty go hand in hand. I am concerned about the debate that we are seeing, particularly on social media, because we probably have freedom of expression, and we must stick to that, but it is given under responsibility, and we must never have a society where people are squandered without thinking about it simply because it is a right. By this observation, I believe that we have a challenge which may not be fully addressed in terms of legislation, but which we, from the political side, have a responsibility to address. In particular, I am concerned about our children and young people, but also about the democracy of the future, because if the consequence of standing up in debates, the consequence of saying your opinion is that you are being piggy, we may run the risk of fewer standing up and standing up. Therefore, we cannot discuss the right to freedom of expression without also discussing the duty to behave with one another. It is also a problem when imams in the shelter of freedom of expression keep women, young people and children in an irony of social control. We saw in the broadcasts about the Grimmøjmoskeen how freedom of expression was used very carefully to convey messages about the stoning of women and violence against children. When you are a minister, you have a special responsibility to use freedom of speech under responsibility. And that is a problem when freedom of expression is used to reduce another fundamental Danish value, namely the value of freedom. It is merely to reiterate my message that the law imposes a duty, including in terms of freedom of expression. The Socialists support both the racism clause and the blasphemy clause, and we do so because race and religion are particularly sensitive areas. Having said that, there is still incredibly wide scope for freedom of expression. This was concluded by the Criminal Code Council less than a year ago when they submitted their report on the blasphemy clause. The same was true when we set up a committee that looked at the freedom of expression of public employees, which resulted in a number of recommendations. Freedom of expression is a pillar of our democracy, and that is why we must be able to discuss it all the time if anyone finds that freedom of expression is restricted, and that is what we are doing all the time and constantly. We do not think that another Commission is the right forum for this debate. We can well discuss in committee whether the Criminal Code Council should look at individual concepts or restrictions in the area of freedom of expression, but we do not think that a Commission is the right tool for this debate, nor do we think it is necessary. With those words, I must say that we support freedom of expression and the debate on freedom of expression, as well as possibly work in the Criminal Law Council, but not the resolution here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517145043	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517145048	Thank you and thank you for your comments. There is, of course, a discussion right now about some of the documentaries that have been, about social control and so on. That is one discussion. Ten years ago, we had another discussion about the Mohammed drawings, which were also very polarised and where we were discussing: where is the limit in terms of freedom of expression? Does the rapporteur think that it could be said that it was very polarising for our society in relation to these drawings and the reactions it caused, but that it was perhaps necessary to discuss freedom of expression, but that the situation is different today when it comes to discussing, for example, the situation in the United Kingdom? These imams' freedom of speech? I hope the rapporteur understands what I mean, so that freedom of expression is also very much about accepting what is under no circumstances liked, as long as it is, of course, within the framework of the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517145156	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517145158	I believe that the two concrete examples are precisely the proof that we are discussing freedom of expression all the time and that there is not such a fixed template that we can put it into, but that it is a continuous debate that we have, both in the Folketing and also in society. In fact, I think it is a mistake to think that just because you set up a commission, you get such a square solution to where freedom of expression is. And that is what makes freedom of speech so difficult, not least because the right to express itself follows the duty to think. But you might think that thinking ends with a different result, depending on who you are.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517145233	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517145235	Thank you. Well, I also think that the two examples are very good at showing some of the things that have started the discussion about freedom of expression in Danish society, but after the Mohammed drawings no one said: this has offended a great many people's feelings and perhaps also religious values, and now we will see how far we can go in terms of limiting, for example. the right to draw or write. At that time, we were discussing some other matters, but not legislative action. And that is what is being discussed a little now. And that is actually why, whether or not there is a majority in favour of this proposal, I am in any case very pleased with the discussion we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517145319	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517145321	I also believe that there is basically the difference between the two examples, that where one discussion is about more general values, the other discussion, that is to say, about the Imams, is about concrete values of freedom for children, young people, women. In other words, it is people whose values of freedom are defined and who have to live with each day that they are kept in an iron grip of social control, whereas the second debate on the drawings did not directly cause harm to individual individuals. It was a major debate on value. So I do not think that the two examples can be fully compared. However, I believe that the debate is important and it has been there both in one example and another.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517145400	The next question is Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517145404	Thank you. After all, it never hurts to have a qualified debate, and such a commission could allow it. I guess that's really the experience from Norway. What I would like to hear from the Socialist rapporteur is the position that Jacob Mchanama has clearly expressed. He has said that, after the Norwegian model, such a commission can be used. It is not only the SF who says so, but also Justitia, whom I see as a good advocate of freedom of expression in the debate that is there. What do the Social Democrats think about this when Jacob Mchhangama says that this is something that we might really need in the difficult debate that freedom of expression is and which I think the debate on the Imams, for example, shows?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517145456	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517145458	I think this is not the only area where Social Democracy does not agree with Justitia. I think it is a misguided error if you think that a commission, which is, of course, also very costly, is needed before you can create a debate. In fact, I believe that we have discussions about freedom of expression both in the day-to-day legislative work here in the Folketing at the more fundamental level and around society. So I do not think it is a correct conclusion that a commission is needed until one can discuss with one another.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517145530	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517145533	I do not understand the SF proposal in that we have to stop the debate on freedom of expression until we have the Commission's work, but that it can be an upgrading of it. I think that we are in the position of closing the Kurdish television station, Roj TV, that we have had the discussion about the Mohammed drawings, that we have had the discussion about imams, and that we then have a situation in which it could not harm to have an upskilling of the debate. Not least now, when there is a majority in favour of effectively restricting freedom of expression or looking at the possibility of restricting freedom of expression, it might be a good thing, I think, that we had a report that could qualify our position. So I hope that the Socialists will be aware that this is certainly not something that should close the debate, at least not from the point of view of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517145622	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517145623	We should certainly not close the debate on freedom of expression. But frankly, it seems that if there is something you want to discuss in a different way than the way it is going, you can raise your hand and say: we want to set up a commission. It is not exactly clear from the proposal here what the Commission is going to examine or how it is going to be sharp-angled. That is also why I propose in my rapporteur's speech that we should be able to use other tools, such as the Criminal Code Council, which examined the blasphemy clause a year ago. It is a cheaper solution and for me also to see a more useful solution for this debate. So we could also discuss alternatives if it is the debate that we want to raise.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517145700	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next speaker is Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517145712	With the resolution, the Socialist People's Party proposes the creation of a Commission on freedom of expression to look at freedom of expression and how it generally feels in today's Denmark, following the Norwegian model. I must confess that I do not believe that freedom of expression is a matter to be dealt with by commissions. It is one thing that rests on a value that it is incumbent on us to keep alive. It is a debate that is best placed in the Parliamentary Chamber. Basically, as politicians, we have a responsibility to take good care of freedom of expression, to take care of it, because freedom of expression is a very vital value in Denmark. That is also why I think the issue is far too important to park in a jar of jams or in a commission. I believe that this is something that we, as politicians, must take directly on us and, of course, defend with all the means at our disposal. I also think that the fact that a motion for a resolution has been tabled today shows that freedom of expression is alive, that freedom of expression does not need a commission to live itself up because the debate on freedom of expression is taking place, and it has done so. It is also a debate that is important to maintain, and I think that we do best politically, but not through a Commission. It is also against this background that I can announce that the Danish People's Party does not support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517145840	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517145844	Thank you. I'm a little disappointed. Of course, the rapporteur and DF are allowed to think exactly what they want, but I just remember that, in the wake of the Mohammed drawings and the discussion that took place, there were several from the rapporteur's party out saying: this shows that there is pressure on freedom of expression. There are some people, some cartoons, who have had to live with bodyguards, under protection and in fear of their lives for many, many years ago. There, I think, on top of that discussion, the rapporteur's party in particular has said that there are some real challenges, threats to freedom of expression. This is a core example of that. Does the rapporteur agree with the idea that it is correct to understand that DF has had the position that there have been some concrete things that show a threat to freedom of expression?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517145945	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517145946	Yes, absolutely. After all, the questioner gives a good example in relation to magazine writers and journalists, where a great deal indicates that you feel pressured, that this is the pressure, but it is, in fact, a political issue. That is where our obligation is to take care of freedom of expression. I do not think you should park that on a commission. I believe that this is and will be a political issue to which we must address ourselves, and we must define what the limits should be. There is no doubt that in some areas I and my party would like freedom of expression to be extended. I am not sure that we can agree with the Socialist People's Party on this. I mean, the discussion on 266 B, for example. is, of course, a good example of places where we may disagree, but where we are discussing that particular disagreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517150033	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517150036	It may well be that we can find each other, but I am just starting from the point of view that we cannot support strengthening the freedom of expression of some and reducing the freedom of others, because these are two different groups where we have more sympathy for one than for the other. Basically, our freedoms must be such that we say that no matter who expresses themselves, there are the same basic principles, regardless of whether we like the expressions or not. The important thing about principles is that they do not get bogged down, that there is freedom for Loki as well as Thor, so I therefore believe that, precisely because of some of the points made by the rapporteur, it would be extra strengthening for the debate to have such a commission. On the contrary, I do not think it is something that shuts down a debate, but something that could help strengthen it and where we could get different inputs. The rapporteur is quite right in saying that it is ultimately a political decision, but I see it only as something that could strengthen that debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517150137	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517150139	The questioner raises some of the points where the questioner is trying to define some differences between our parties on this issue, and this clearly shows that we do not need a commission of 50 to 60 million. kr., or whatever such a commission may cost, to find out how we deal with this. We are doing well in the Parliamentary Chamber. I am sure that we would like to call a debate on freedom of expression in general to take that debate, because I think it is an important debate to take. We are already the living proof that the debate exists and that, in our view, a Commission is therefore superfluous in this respect.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517150213	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen has a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517150216	Thank you. When we had the so-called Muhammad crisis, I think that the DF's rapporteur and myself agreed that we should not restrict the freedom to speak or draw. And one of them, who was a very, very clear advocate of it, was after all Jyllands-Posten's Flemming Rose. And the very same Flemming Rose is now out warning about some of what the government is about to take the initiative on restricting freedom of expression in relation to imams. For example, he says: "I am fundamentally opposed to criminalising statements solely on the basis of the attitudes and opinions they express. Does it not concern the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party that a man like Flemming Rose sounds the alarm?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517150305	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517150307	It is gratifying that the Enheslisten's question believes that freedom of expression should not be restricted. The Danish People's Party looks forward to this when we are going to debate § 266b at some point, so that you would like to see a further framework for what can be said in the public space. I'd like to sign for that. However, it is true that negotiations are currently taking place. For us, it is not a question of freedom of expression. It is a question of facets of religious freedom, and I think we should take that debate when we know what comes out of those negotiations. Of course, the questioner or I cannot say what the conclusion is.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517150339	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517150341	Thank you. Well, it is no secret that Enhedslisten has advocated the abolition of the blasphemy clause, so we can then form a common front in relation to if that is what the Danish People's Party wants. However, I think that Flemming Rose's statement is an example of the fact that it would not harm to have an upgrading of the debate, in other words to take account of the debates of the last 10 years and thus to have it up-qualified. And this could possibly be done with a commission, so perhaps I will turn it over and ask the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party: what could it really do to have such a commission? Of course, knowing that the debate on freedom of expression does not stop. We will continue to have it here in Parliament and in society. But what would it really hurt to have a commission that, after Norwegian example, looked at the possibilities of upgrading our debate on just as important as freedom of expression?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517150435	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517150437	The fundamental question is whether the lively political debate in this Chamber, which works and where we clearly disagree on some things, but can take the debate, should be a matter for the Commission. I don't think so. I don't think we're there yet. I think we should take the discussion that may then be quite openly about the disagreement and have a political discussion about it. By the way, I am pleased that the Enhedslisten will help to abolish the blasphemy clause. I hope the same applies to the racism clause. We will certainly look forward to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517150509	Thank you, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Britt Baker on the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517150530	According to Norwegian practice, SF wishes to set up a commission to assess the conditions for freedom of expression in Denmark and to propose ways of strengthening freedom of expression. As the Minister has pointed out, freedom of expression is one of the most fundamental elements of a well-functioning democracy. This is also true in Denmark. In recent years we have had several situations where freedom of expression has been debated and where we have discussed the role and framework of freedom of expression. Each time, without exception, we have stressed the importance of freedom of expression for our society. There is broad political agreement on this. That is why I also understand that the authors of this proposal want to strengthen democratic debate and freedom of expression. Specifically, a Commission wants to have a thorough assessment of the conditions and development of freedom of expression and the possibility of being strengthened in the future. The detailed assessment is necessary for the proposers. The authors of the proposals justify the desire for the social development that has taken place in recent decades, not only in Denmark, but in the world in general. In particular, the emergence of social media has changed our way of communicating and thus also changed our way of expressing ourselves. However, I do not believe that the development of society has weakened freedom of expression. Basically, the Left is of the clear opinion that freedom of expression today has very good conditions in Denmark. On the political side, we have established the best possible framework for freedom of expression, and we are constantly discussing the terms and framework of freedom of expression. Just take the debate here today. That is why the Left does not see the need to set up a Commission, and on that basis we cannot support the resolution. And then I will inform the Conservatives that they do not support the proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517150739	There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517150743	Thank you. As far as I am aware, Mrs Britt Baker is also a qualified lawyer and then, what is to say, has a professional entrance to this. I understand that the Left and the Government do not want to support such a commission, but the rapporteur said that freedom of expression is good in Denmark. I would also admit that it does, if you compare it with so many other countries in the world, but does the rapporteur think that there are no problems? Isn't there somewhere we could put in? Is everything exactly as it should be in terms of freedom of speech?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517150827	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517150829	Freedom of expression is not a static concept. That is why there are places we can take action and there are points we need to discuss, and that is what we are doing today. This is also the discussion that takes place during the negotiations with the church minister. So I believe that there are places where action can be taken, and I believe that there are points that we need to discuss all the time. But in my world, the word commission smells just far away that we are picking up a job, and in my world, a commission is not the right way towards more freedom of expression on the contrary. I believe that a debate like the one we have today is much more constructive and has much more effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517150908	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517150909	There is always a great deal of discussion when a proposal contains the word Commission, because we know that it can be expensive and lengthy. I also believe that we should be very careful about proposing commissions and that it should preferably be something that has a general or very important and crucial importance for a society, and I believe that freedom of expression does. Right now there is a discussion that may well end up restricting freedom of expression, and by that I mean the discussion about criminalising certain phrases. I would just like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur believes that after the discussion we have had over the last ten years, with the consequences it has had for us as a country and as a society, after the Mohammed drawings and all that, there are areas where we should strengthen freedom of expression and not restrict it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517151005	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517151007	It is absolutely true that a commission is expensive. That's not what matters to me. What is crucial to me in something as important as freedom of expression is that I believe that a Commission work is long gone. The main reason why I do not support it and that we in the Left do not support it here is, in fact, that a Commission work is long gone. As regards how freedom of expression should be cut, the SF itself has made that proposal during the negotiations, which is why, frankly, I think it would be most right for it to be discussed in the negotiating room with the other parties and the church minister, instead of having to stand and explain it here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517151044	Thank you to Mrs Britt Baker. We shall now proceed to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Nikolaj Villumsen for Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517151052	Thank you. The Enhedslisten supports the proposal to set up a Freedom of Freedom Commission as proposed by the SF. I think it is quite obvious to follow in the Norwegian footsteps, and I think it is important to look at what comes from recommendations from society, for example from the Think Tank Justitia and Jacob Mchanama, which recommends the setting up of such a commission. What we can see is that today we have new means of communication, social media and communication here, where you often have a debate that such a commission could upskill. We have a global world where something that is said, drawn or written in Denmark can suddenly get a lot of focus around the world, as we saw with the Muhammad crisis. After all, we also have a situation in which we have a terrorist threat that we must take seriously, but at the same time we must also avoid destroying the freedoms that we are trying to protect against the terrorists. We have seen that there have been discussions about what to do. We saw it, for example, with the Kurdish TV station Roj TV, which sent from Denmark. It was a television station that spoke darkened forces like ISIL in the middle, and which was seen by millions of viewers in the Middle East, but which was closed after pressure from the • what much suggests if you look at WikiLeaks • the Turkish President Erdogan. Now we see again in Europe that there is pressure on freedom of expression, for example in Germany, where something as trivial as making fun of President Erdogan suddenly is something for which to be accused. I find this deeply, deeply worrying, and it shows the problems and challenges of freedom of expression and where I do not think it would be at all detrimental to get an upskill with such a commission. It can be said that when we had discussions about the Mohammed drawings, there was a great deal of support in general for freedom of expression. One can say that we had a united front on a great many lines in relation to the right to speak and to draw freely. Now there is a big discussion about how free one should be to speak. For example, we can read that Mr. Flemming Rose, who, during the crisis with the Mohammed drawings, was praised from the right for his defence of freedom of expression, is now criticising the government. He believes that statements will be criminalised solely on the basis of attitudes in relation to the initiatives being taken by the government in relation to the debate on the Imams. So I think it is absolutely crucial that we in Denmark have a situation where we ensure that everyone is equal before the law, that anyone who calls for violence or terrorism is punished, but also that you are not punished for saying stupid things. We must be vigilant about freedom of expression, we must address the challenges of development, with modern technology, globalisation and the threat of terrorism facing the defence of freedom of expression, and that is why we in the Enhedslist support the proposal from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517151432	Thank you, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517151443	I should like to begin by commending the Socialist People's Party for tabling this motion for a resolution on the setting up of a Commission on Freedom of expression. We in the Liberal Alliance think this is a very good idea. That is what a whole series of reasons can be listed for. Which country could be more appropriate than Denmark to set up such a commission after everything we went through following the discussion about the Mohammed drawings? For a number of years we almost believed that Denmark was the homeland of freedom of expression or something like that. Now we also have discussions about whether we should restrict freedom of expression in various ways, and that also updates the discussion about a Commission on Freedom of Expression. There is, of course, pressure in relation to freedom of expression from some places. Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen mentioned an example that I also think is very relevant, namely the whole discussion of a German comedian who has allowed himself to make fun of the Turkish President, and then one might even have to go through a case in Germany at the request of the Turkish President himself. Perhaps this is something we did not even imagine a few years ago, so that a request was made by a nation in the vicinity of Europe with a request to the German Government to raise such a matter and that the German Government abides by it. I think it is quite unheard of and it updates the pressure that unfortunately exists on freedom of expression in these years. You have to remember that freedom of expression is about being put in a situation where you are basically forced to live with, that there are people who say something you don't like. There was a Socialist rapporteur who spoke of the fact that one should also think very carefully about and behave properly, and what I know, and it is always good to be a decent and decent person. But it is also the case that freedom of expression becomes a dish and almost non-existent if the starting point for it is that it should always only take into account that the people would like to like what they say. In fact, freedom of expression is about the right to be contradicted, and it is actually extremely important. Then you can always discuss this with a Commission, and it will also be a bit of an excuse for not having to vote through this otherwise quite excellent motion for a resolution. But it could be precisely that it could be a catalyst for us to find solutions to something that we really want to do, but which does not happen. The Blasphemy paragraph could be an example. I also noted that Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen said it. I think there have been a little changing reports on it and correct me if I am wrong - but I do not think there has been a straight line in that view. And that is not a criticism, it is more because there is always some reflection on the fact that we have to take one consideration, the other consideration, the third consideration, and then it ends up that we never get anything done to extend freedom of expression. It may well be that this proposal will not be adopted, because unfortunately I think it would appear with the speeches that have been made by the large parties, but it might be possible to draw up a report in which Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen to participate in the action, put action behind the Danish People's Party's many fine words about freedom of expression. Now I see that the Minister is trying to block the good dialogue between the Danish People's Party and the Liberal Alliance, but I will try to continue with it anyway, because I think it would be good if we could have a report of this kind. If we now in the Danish People's Party and the Liberal Alliance could ally ourselves with a number of the parties in the red bloc and then perhaps even get a majority in favour of extending freedom of expression in some areas, then Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen should not be sorry that she might not get her proposal adopted, but rejoice that some results are being achieved, and that might be the result. At least I think we should join forces to lure the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517151908	That call seems to be being followed up. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517151917	Thank you for the exciting rapporteur's speech. But if the point isn't, I'm gonna ask Mr. Knox. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, that if there was a majority in the Folketing to extend freedom of expression, that is to say abolish the blasphemy clause or the racism clause, then a majority in the Folketing could just change it. We want to do that in the Danish People's Party. There are 37 of us who want to change it and abolish the clauses restricting the free word. We could take each other's hands and make a proposal on that, if that were the case. We would be happy to do so, because of course we would have liked to have done away with these things. I just don't think it takes a commission to look at that. I think that we can do that ourselves and change the political debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517151958	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517151959	It is, of course, a very logical point of view to make, but now I have the pleasure of having experience of having also been sitting in one of the slightly older parties in the Folketing at an earlier time in my life, and from there I know that parties that are a little older than Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen and my own, sometimes benefit from the fact that precisely such commissions and committees are set up, for then the proposals can be put forward in the order in which the enthusiasm for them develops in these parties. I think that can also benefit from the views expressed by Mr Beazley. Peter Kofod Poulsen represents.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517152039	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517152041	However, the point must be that we, the rapporteur and I, have the opportunity to use our freedom of expression to bring all our good arguments to the floor of the Folketing for why, of course, we have to get rid of the blasphemy clause or the racism clause for that matter. The main point must be that we have the opportunity to change it politically when there is a majority in favour of it. I don't doubt it's coming. At some point there will probably be a majority that succumbs to common sense. But the only question is whether it is the political process that has to decide or whether it is a work of the Commission that is supposed to pave the way. That is where I would prefer us to take the debate here in the Assembly and find a solution which I hope will be the case. Simon Emil Ammitzbølls and, by the way, my own party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517152123	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517152125	Now I don't know if Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen has noticed that sometimes it can be difficult for the Danish People's Party to persuade some of the smaller parties in the red block to just think that the arguments which Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen and his colleagues are coming with us, is absolutely fantastic. It might be that if you set up a commission consisting of professionals, you would get some more, we should say, dry and less polemical arguments than those which the questioner and I could find out about • yet could attract more people to the galley. And I guess what's interesting is, I'd say to Mr. Knox. Peter Kofod Poulsen, whether we will get the result that we would like to see not necessarily whether the process is equal is one or the other. And if this is what it takes, I really think it's a low price for expanding freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517152218	The questioner doesn't. He's had enough questions. I'm sorry. Of course, I was most afraid to give him too few questions. Thank you very much, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll. There are no more brief comments. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Josephine Fock for the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517152243	Thank you for the floor. We are now discussing B 88, draft parliamentary resolution setting up a Commission on freedom of expression. The proposers want the government to set up a Freedom of Freedom Commission to assess the conditions for freedom of expression in Denmark and to propose ways of strengthening freedom of expression during the current parliamentary year. Few issues of legal policy have over the last ten years filled the public debate more than the issue of freedom of expression and its borders. We must guard our freedom of expression as the crucial basis for our democracy as it is, but even freedom of expression has limits. Freedom of expression must also take into account, among other things. The dignity of people. When we look at the last 10 years, we see that we see that, among other things. We have had a huge debate on the Mohammed drawings, and one can almost be tempted to say that this debate is being repeated here in connection with the latest work on imams and their utterances, just with the opposite sign, if you look at the pages of this Parliament. In Norway, a number of researchers at the Institute for Social Research published a report on the status of freedom of expression in Norway in 2014. In the alternative, we think that such a report could also be valuable in Denmark, so that the debate on freedom of expression is given the opportunity to lift itself up more than recent statements, it may be said, have been expressed. The alternative, therefore, in line with the proposers, believes that there is a need to broaden the discussion on freedom of expression. Development challenges our understanding of freedom of expression, and the proposal offers an opportunity to learn more about one of the most important values in our society. We therefore think that a commission could be useful, but are also willing to discuss other forms of work that provide freedom of expression and where we are in Denmark at the moment. But on this basis we support the proposal and are willing to take a further debate on how and what such a commission or other work should look like.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517152446	Thank you to Mrs Josephine Fock. There are no brief comments at all. Then it is Mrs Zenia Stampe, on behalf of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517152455	Thank you. Freedom of speech is not exactly an under-lit area in the Danish debate. On the contrary, I can hardly think of subjects that have been surrounded by as much attention and debate as precisely freedom of expression. And it is also a very important subject which involves many different concrete and fundamental considerations. Let me just mention three examples: the debate that we had in the wake of the drawing crisis or the Mohammed crisis, I think it is a little dependent on temperament, what is called it, showed that we had a problem with violent extremists whose direct or indirect threats led to silence and self-censorship. We have also seen in the debate on the freedom of expression of public employees that there are some public authorities that take action with sanctions in a way that makes public employees self-censorship. That's a problem too. This is a problem, moreover, that we will be discussing later today, when we will be discussing a whistleblower scheme. Then we also think that it is a problem when political power begins to criminalise certain statements. Not because we have sympathy for those statements, but because we think it is contrary to a fundamental principle of a free, liberal society, namely that it must also be able to tolerate being spoken against; but also quite practically, because we think it will be harder to combat extremist positions if they are hidden in the basement instead of coming out into the light where they can be fought with open foreheads. If, however, we cannot support the proposal to set up a Commission, it is because we believe that the subject is already the subject of a lively and diverse debate. The freedom of expression and the many aspects of it, and some of the dilemmas I have mentioned, and some of the problems I have mentioned now, are already being discussed among politicians, journalists, organisations, university people, and the Ombudsman has also recently gone into the talk about the freedom of expression of public servants. So these are the players whom the proposers also imagine to be on such a commission. After all, these are already players who have so much been mobilized in the debate on freedom of expression. So what would be the purpose of such a commission and such a commission work? Yes, it would perhaps be to create the great chromed and authoritative image. And it is a beautiful thought, especially beautiful, when the debate is so diverse, so sometimes it is incalculable. However, in our best opinion, it is an illusion to believe that the result can be a number of authoritative recommendations. For as the Danish People's Party and there I have to agree, because although it may not be the paragraphs or the issues that we give priority to, I am in agreement with the approach to this debate, so I think it is a political debate. I think that there is ample explanation of where the challenges are and then it is a political decision, which instruments will be used for example. to combat radicalized imams and how much one wants to compromise on freedom of expression and so on. This is a political debate. What the Radical Left is afraid of in such a Commission is, firstly, that it is being put in the eye because we are telling each other that we can then reach the big chromed picture and agree on some recommendations. We think that is an illusion. But I am also afraid of politicising the work, that is to say that each of us brings our own little Hassan, and I really think this debate has already borne witness to this. There are the proposers and my own party who are deeply critical of the criminalisation of utterances which appear to be on the way; then there are some who are very concerned about the blasphemy clause and others may be concerned about the freedom of expression of public servants, etc. etc. That is to say, I think that before we even set up the Commission, we will be incredibly concerned about who will sit on that Commission and then draw conclusions from a discussion which is diverse, which is alive and where there are also very great differences of opinion in the Folketing. That is why I believe that this debate is best where it is now, because it is in the public debate where there are a great many people who participate with opinions, but also with explanations, both historical and legal. And then there is a political debate going on here in the Folketing about where it is that we sometimes want to compromise, or some want to compromise, where it is that the threats are considered to be greatest and so on. etc. We are happy to take part in a debate on freedom of expression. We are particularly happy to participate when it becomes concrete when it comes to the freedom of expression of public employees, which we will discuss later today. We are also happy to participate when it comes to how far the state should go in terms of criminalising utterances. We are not willing to go as far as many others are, etc. etc. However, we do not believe that a Commission work can bring out new insights, and we do not believe that a series of consensus recommendations of this kind can be reached, all of which can suddenly be endorsed after 10 years of debate, in which I believe the fronts have been drawn up fairly sharply and where it is also very clear that there are very large differences in the balance of payments. That's the way it is in a lively debate, and thank God for it. I do not think a Commission can change that, and perhaps it should not really change that either.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517153036	Thank you to Mrs Zenia Stampe. There are no brief comments. The last to speak in this round is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517153059	Surely there is not a Danish value that has been discussed as much as freedom of expression for the last 10-11 years. And when we have made this proposal on the part of the SF, it partly reflects a self-examination in relation to some of what really kick-started the discussion about freedom of expression, namely the Mohammed drawings or the Muhammad crisis, or whatever you would call it. I have done it in the past I actually think it's very appropriate to do it from the most distinguished platform in this realm, because we openly acknowledged that we were also some in the SF who were wrong when the Jyllands-Posten brought drawings that we absolutely did not like and which we thought were insulting and derogatory to entire groups who had the one in common that they belonged to the same religion. But I would also like to say that some of the things that have happened over the last ten years have made me draw a line in the sand and say that there is something more important than people's feelings. And these are some of the most fundamental principles of a modern society, including the right to draw and write what you want, within the framework of the law, which should not be too restrictive. And there I think that the discussion we had on the Mohammed crisis has meant that as a country we have paid a very high price; embassies were set on fire, people died, and it has had great costs for Denmark. However, no one has paid as high a price as some of the journalists and cartoons who were involved in it. They have lived with threats and must put up with protection every day, perhaps for the rest of their lives, and there have been quite specific attacks on their lives. When we then took the big discussion and said that it had cost Denmark a great deal, we did so because it is a complete right. We are not starting to change legislation on top of the Mohammed crisis. We stand up and say: yes, there has been a high price to pay, but we do so in order to protect some of what is most fundamentally important in our society. And then we stand here 11 years later and have a discussion that in some ways is very similar to the one we had at that time. It does not have the same global implications, but it still reminds us of what happened at the time, because there are some people who offend us and violate our feelings, our values, etc. through some of the things they express. But then it is that there are a lot of proposals on the table, so it is that we have to take legislative steps. There have been plenty of other examples, but the two examples provide a framework for what has filled so much in our society over the last decade, namely the debate on freedom of expression and where the limits of it must be set. That is why we think it would be very good to set up a commission to clarify this issue by some people who have a slightly different approach to it than politicians. We also tend to be polemical or maybe cram each other into a corner when we're discussing these things. And that is why we in the SF believe that following in the footsteps of the Norwegians could at least be very good in relation to such a committee of freedom of expression. I am concerned when I find that there is a worryingly high number of politicians in the Folketing who think that we should challenge conventions and challenge the constitution, especially in view of the price we have paid to defend freedom of expression on top of the Mohammed crisis. And specifically addressed to Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen I would like to say that I do not think it can be said, on the one hand, that we want to extend freedom of expression for what we like and, on the other hand, restrict it for what we do not like. And that is what could be good to have an in-depth discussion about. We must say that principles must apply to all Loki as well as to Thor because one cannot start to grade-bending, depending on whether we like the drawings, but not the Imams' statements. What is quite relevant to discuss is what is already banned today. I mean, freedom of expression already has its limitations today. There are a large number of things that we must not call for; we must not call for violence, terrorism and so on. etc. But we think that discussion by the SF is very relevant. Regardless of what ends up happening, it might be good to have a greater discussion of it. Finally, I would like to mention something that was also mentioned by the Enhedslisten's rapporteur. One of the main characters in this ten-year discussion, Flemming Rose, has been very consistent in his defence of freedoms, and I also think he deserves to be mentioned from up here. In fact, today he has exactly the same basic principles and views on freedom of expression, on freedoms as at the time when the red block was facing the blue block, or what to say where there was a discussion about what was filling then. And that is actually the aim that I, too, want to maintain from up here, namely how we can ensure principles that are the same for everyone. However, I would like to thank you for your comments. I can calculate that there is no majority, but I hope that we may be able to write a joint contribution to the report in committee, and I would like to thank in particular the Enhedslisten, the Alternative and the Liberal Alliance for their support.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517153740	There is a brief comment from Mrs Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517153743	Thank you. I would like to acknowledge that the SF rapporteur is so honest about the way in which the SF has changed its position and the way in which the rapporteur has changed his position. Well, that's good to hear. Is it something that has happened in the last year that the SF's rapporteur has changed his mind about this about freedom of expression?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517153811	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517153813	Now the rapporteur of the Left said that the SF has changed its position. Because there has been a rather broad discussion within my party about the Mohammed crisis in particular, I would prefer not to raise any revenue for anything. I think I said that I and others in my party have also been through a kind of process of recognition in relation to some of the things that have also happened in the wake of the drawing crisis. I don't know exactly when it happened, but it was years ago. I would prefer to speak only on my own behalf right now about this, but it has been a recognition that yes, we can do it, and I think it was the Socialist rapporteur who mentioned it; we can behave with each other; we can take into account each other's feelings and so on; but basically, when you come down to the substance of it, there must be some basic principles that apply to the day when it hurts or some gets offended or some don't like what you have to say.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517153925	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517153927	I don't think we can argue about that at all. When I ask when the rapporteur has changed his position, it is because the SF was in government until 2014, and therefore there has been ample opportunity to set up such a commission from 2011 to 2014; therefore, I am just a little puzzled. We had the Muhammad crisis in 2005. There was ample opportunity for the SF, while the SF was in government, to set up this commission, so why is this proposal only now?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517153957	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517153959	But I do not think that, as far as Mrs Britt Baker is concerned, her attention has passed, that is to say that she has not noticed that it is not everything that three parties agree with in the government. There were areas where the Social Democrats and Radicals were more in agreement with each other, where the SF and Radicals were more in agreement with each other, and it is also fair that there is not a complete consensus on this, and that is something we can hear from today's debate on precisely this. However, when it is included in the overall package that I presented on behalf of the SF back in January to strengthen legal certainty, freedom of expression and freedom of assembly, it was also because some things have happened, also recently, that put it in a framework. This isn't a lex drawing crisis. That is simply what has happened specifically from 10 years ago until now. My proposal has even been overtaken by events in relation to some of the documentaries that have been, so it is not a lex imamer either. That is in the sense that we are going to say: should we not have a fundamental discussion about whether principles apply to everyone and not to those we like or do not like?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517154113	Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517154116	I am a little puzzled because I have an article here in front of me from mid-April, when the rapporteur's President, Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, urges us to fight the radicalized imams, which hold especially women and also children in an irony of social control. The rapporteur's President says that it is time for us to take the magazine out of our mouths. Of course, you could say that you smell more freedom of speech and stand on the side of these women and help fight their battles. So I just have to understand: how can we fight against these imams if we do not have to discuss their right to express themselves, their right to express something that is at odds with the law? How is this fight going to take place if you're not going to discuss what kind of attitudes these women are constantly indoctrinating with?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517154219	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517154221	This can of course be done in many ways, and in particular for reasons of freedom for some of the people in this country who live under social control, live in some parallel societies, have been a matter for the SF and especially for my party chairman. And I don't think there's anything strange about wanting to discuss the basic conditions of freedom of expression, regardless of how that study would end out. I wouldn't know it would depend on both the terms of reference and the people who sat in it. One result could be that we came to the conclusion that we are living in a new time and that we need to restrict freedom of expression in some areas. Another conclusion could be: No, we have gone too far. That would be precisely the good thing about such a discussion about what was of different options and so on. But I do not think there is anything strange about wanting to fight for feminism, fight for the right of vulnerable groups to live in freedom, and then say that it would be good to have a thorough debate on the conditions of freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517154335	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517154337	It is also actually another matter that we are discussing here. It is Imams that hold women and children in an iron grip, and their right as preachers to express themselves. As I understand it, the SF still sits away in the debates where we are discussing how women and children can be spared such utterances, such as calls for stoning, violence against children and other unpleasant things. So I do not quite understand how things can go hand in hand when the clear focus of the SF in this debate has been that it is about expanding freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517154417	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517154418	Well I cannot understand that one cannot wish for a broad explanation of how democracy is doing in Denmark, where freedom of expression is a very important part, that one cannot wish for an explanation of how freedom of expression is doing today, and perhaps with a specific focus on the last 10 years, but I should not judge that here, and then say that it is in contrast to thinking that one would like to discuss that there are some people who think that one should have stoning or use violence as a method of education. So to that I would say that it's the elected members of this thing that seem, so in this way we have a very broad definition of what you have the right to say and to mean in this country. There are many restrictions on freedom of expression already today, as I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech. We have legislation on libel, we must not encourage or inexpensive terror, so there are plenty of restrictions. I shall not say whether we have gone too far or not, it is precisely to have the debate that we have put forward this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517154528	Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517154532	Thank you. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen keeps saying that she would like to have the debate on this, and that is that I would like to call on Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen to take it. However, call for a question debate on freedom of expression, and we will come forward and give our views on the matter. What is of course the good thing about the Folketing is that we are allowed to debate things like this. freedom of expression, whether there should be limits to freedom of expression, where they should go, and we can come up with a completely open and open debate on that, because that is what is being done in the political machinery spaces. What I feel that SF and Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen want with this proposal is to shift focus from the political process where we can take the debate to a closed forum in a Commission where there are taste judges, experts, the rapporteur may call these people what the rapporteur wants. However, the main point must be that the debate that the rapporteur is looking for can only take place. It doesn't really require a commission. Does the rapporteur not agree that in principle it seems superfluous, precisely because we have the wide scope for taking the debate that the rapporteur so much wants?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517154640	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517154642	If I thought it was superfluous, it would probably be a little stupid to make a proposal on it. However, I understand what the rapporteur is saying and if there is a broad interest in taking a question debate we have the debate right now I do not think that there is enough political discussion about freedom of expression and freedoms. Although we would certainly like to see millions of Danes sitting out there watching Parliament's television, unfortunately I do not think this is the case, and such a Commission work could also be an opportunity to spread the debate. What is fundamentally important to me, in recognising that there is no majority for this, is that we have a general discussion not about which imam has said what, or which drawer has drawn what, but about some fundamental principles that must apply to everyone in the name of legal certainty. I used the drawing crisis and this imam case as two examples of something where we have so much discussed freedom of expression. There are also many other examples. However, I am happy to continue the discussion and also hope that we may find each other in committee in relation to writing a common text.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517154800	Then it's Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517154807	On a number of points, I can agree with the rapporteur, among others. about this thing with freedom for Loki as well as for Thor, but there's just something that puzzles me a little. The reason why you want to have a commission at all is that you think that there are angles that are not revealed, that there is knowledge that has not been provided, or that there may be a consensus that could be achieved, and then I wonder why Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen really takes a position in her presentation. It can be said that I and my party are in fact in the same place, because we are also very critical of criminalising statements, but I think: is it even realistic to do an unifying commission work when the starting point in reality is to be critical of a proposal that a majority of the Parliamentary Assembly is not involved in the work of the rapporteur and my party?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517154907	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517154909	I actually took the two examples of the drawing crisis and the imam debate, because these are two times within a decade when we have really been able to see freedom of expression being debated. However, as I also write in the motion for a resolution, there are several things that are involved. We live in a digitised age where people make a lot of comments in, for example, a few days ago. Facebook, and the rapporteur knows this better than anyone else, sometimes it can be a very rough tone, and it can happen very quickly when you sit at the keys, and there we see that you get sentences for writing one and the other, and that is an interesting point of view to put in. I have not written the mandate in advance, but I think that one of the reasons for this was: what do we do in a digital age where it is very fast to write a tweet or a facebook update, and should we have judgments for what may have been written a little quickly and unintentionally, or should we take the debate either on the web or in other forums? Or is it the case that we may be criminalising a little too quickly statements, which may be very harsh and which we do not like, but which may be more common in this age than in the past?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517155029	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517155031	Of course, we will certainly take part in any debate. Perhaps we still do not believe that a Commission work is the way forward because we do not really believe that it will be possible to uncover new angles and reach consensus. But then I would just like to take this opportunity to ask whether the SF is out of the negotiations to criminalise positions. Because we got out of the negotiations because we were against this part of the proposal, namely criminalising statements, but we had actually understood that the SF was involved because you were sympathetic to this proposal. So it really surprises me. I am very pleased that SF is opposed to criminalising statements, but I would just like to confirm that the SF is out of the negotiations to criminalise utterances.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517155123	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517155125	I would like to say, as the legal rapporteur, that I am not going to sign up to the fact that I am opposed to criminalising statements as such, and I know what the rapporteur thinks. But I also think that there should be limits to freedom of expression. That's one of them. Therefore, we have libel laws, etc., and we criminalise certain statements if they become harsh enough. But I'm not in those negotiations. They still go away, there are some different considerations that need to be balanced, and I stand here and present some of them. Then there is also the discussion about whether this is the case, for example. is criminal to encourage stoning, and this is also an exciting legal discussion. Because one can say that we have freedom of service and one can read out of the Old Testament, and it is really good work going on there if one reads the text closely. So there are also a number of different considerations to be taken into account. There is freedom of service and reading from old books, etc. and to call for violence. So it's in the mix as I understand it, but I'm not participating.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517155235	Thank you to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. No one else wanted to speak, and the debate is therefore closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517155251	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517155312	Administrative detention under police law has been the subject of a number of questions from the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights during the spring on inter alia: the increase in the number of administrative detentions since 2005. In addition, the subject was discussed at a conciliation meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs on 12 April. The motion for a resolution is that the government should change the rules on administrative detention. The proposal calls for clarification of the provisions of the Police Act on administrative detention of members of assemblies and meetings. The authors of the motion for a resolution want freedom of expression to be incorporated directly into the law in order to give greater weight to freedom of expression and assembly. In addition, the maximum duration of an administrative detention must be changed from 12 hours to 6 hours, which was the limit before the adoption of the so-called lumber package. As on previous occasions, I would like to make it clear at the outset that administrative detention, like the police's other tools, must, of course, be used only with regard to citizens to the extent necessary. It follows from police law that the police must work for security, security, peace and order in society. In addition, the law expressly states that the police are responsible for protecting the right of citizens to gather together. In addition, action against assemblies must, according to the law, take into account the ability of assemblies to make their views known, i.e.: the opportunity to express itself. The Police Act allows the police to intervene in certain specific circumstances against audiences and crowds. To ward off a dangerous situation, police can issue orders, carry out body inspections, or remove objects from persons. Only in cases where these interventions are not sufficient to avert the danger can the police resort to administrative detention. In all cases, the administrative detention must be necessary and the detention period must be as short as possible and as gentle as possible. The exercise of liberty against participants in assemblies and races shall, as far as possible, not exceed 12 hours. The Government considers it sensible and necessary for the police to make use of administrative detention in order to prevent and prevent danger. I understand that the authors of the motion for a resolution are basically of the opinion. However, it is a problem if the police's administrative detention is significantly subsequently overruled either by the police themselves or by the courts. As can be seen from the committee questions I answered in February on administrative detentions, there is no systematic follow-up to cases in which administrative detention is suppressed. This does not mean, however, that the police have not followed up when there have been shortcomings, as happened, for example, after the Copenhagen climate summit in 2009. Furthermore, in December 2009, a reporting system was introduced whereby all police circles were required to report administrative detention in connection with gatherings and meetings where detention has lasted more than 6 hours. As I indicated during the consultation on 12 April, on 4 April, the National Police extended the reporting system with effect from 1 January to cover all administrative detention cases, where it is subsequently assessed in either the police, the police or the courts that the conditions of the Police Act for administrative detention were not met. In replying to the questions in February and at the latest at the consultation on 12 April, I also indicated that I have asked for a work to be started to identify the situations in which the police use administrative detentions in practice. At the same time, consideration must be given to whether there is a need to make legislative adjustments or other measures in relation to the issue. The government will await this work, which is expected to be completed immediately after the summer recess, before it can be assessed whether the amendment of the law on police is to take place. In relation to the proposal to reduce the maximum length of administrative detention for participants in assemblies and meetings, it should be noted that the maximum length of administrative detentions was increased from 6 to 12 hours with the so-called tender flour package in 2009, among others. on the basis of a recommendation from the National Police Department. It is important to bear in mind that, in exceptional situations such as those in the past, it is important to take account of the fact that in exceptional circumstances such as those in the past. in the context of major events such as the Climate Summit, administrative detention may need to be extended over six hours. But, of course, detention must also be necessary in these cases and as short and gentle as possible. The National Police have indicated that they still believe that such an opportunity is needed. The government cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517155759	There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517155806	Thank you. It is not considered by the Minister that various courts have declared the use of administrative detention illegal in several stages, both in relation to the case of Queen Louises Bro and to COP15 etc.? Does it not seem to us that even during a huge event such as COP15, when judges also take into account the possibility of riots and so on, they say clearly that the use of administrative detention was illegal when 905 people were detained? Is it not thoughtful that use may be too extensive, especially in the light of the fact that more administrative detention is actually taking place today than in the year in which we had one of the biggest events on Danish soil?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517155906	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517155909	Well, when I have asked for a survey of the situations in which the police use administrative detention in practice, it is not because I am not concerned about this issue. Then it is because I am actually concerned about the problem in question and would like it to be mapped out so that we can possibly address it if necessary. So I think I have actually answered that question in my speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517155938	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517155940	But you also have to say that, as you shout in the woods, you get answers, and if you want a survey where you ask if it was reasonable in those and those cases to use administrative detention as a tool, then I don't know if you get a report where all around it is said: No, we went too far enough • the tools that you have given us in the Folketing are probably too extensive. I think this is a political discussion. Do you think it's fair or not that the police hold people for up to 12 hours before they do anything illegal? In other words, it must be the fundamental discussion that is fair to take. And now the Minister for Justice is a very, very diligent minister who has started investigations in all areas, so if we could never discuss anything because there was an ongoing investigation, it would be a bit boring to be a legal rapporteur, and I am sure that the Minister for Justice will not shut down all the debates in the Minister's field.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517160047	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517160052	No, I can say that it is not only the Minister for Justice who is diligent, I think that the Legal Affairs rapporteur has indeed been very, very diligent in this parliamentary year. And let me add to that that if these are principles we are discussing, it must be the very concept of administrative detention and surely not whether it is for 12 or 11 or 9 or 7 hours. And I understand that this is not what the rapporteur for the proposers is proposing. It is not the abolition of administrative detention; it is a question of length. And I think that is perhaps a little much to make it such a totally fundamental question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517160119	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517160123	Thank you. In fact, I would like to ask specifically about the matter of the loot package, which enabled people to be detained for a longer period of time, not just for six hours, but for 12 hours. After all, it was used during the COP15 demonstrations, and I actually personally had the honour of being a demonstration leader for this peaceful demonstration on 12 December. It is not every day that a demonstration of 110,000 people is being conducted, and I warned the police to go in and make this mass arrest, partly because we had control of the demonstration at the time, partly because the people who were in that place did not carry out anything illegal. The police completely ignored our warnings and made this illegal mass arrest. It was, of course, a violent experience for the people who were exposed to it, but it was actually also very problematic for us who tried to maintain a peaceful demonstration, because this was a gift to those who wanted to cause unrest. Fortunately, we managed to keep track of everything and everyone, and there was a continuing peaceful demonstration. On the basis of these more than what was it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517160256	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517160259	I have not said that I reject amendments to the law in this context. I have said that when the results of the work undertaken to identify when the police use it here in practice are available, we will consider possible changes. That's kind of just what I've been saying. So I do not deny that once the work has been completed, changes can be made if what has been done so far is not good enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517160325	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517160330	Thank you. I have to say that I think that the violent experience of more than 900 people who were illegally arrested should lead to a consequence being drawn. It is, of course, positive if the Minister for Justice wants to do so later, because I think it is absolutely crucial that we learn from the bad experiences. I just have to say that I personally experienced very, very clearly during that period that it seemed that the police felt that they had political pressure on them because of the slurring package, which meant that they did not hesitate to take such a violent action that basically put the world's major climate demonstration at the time at risk and could have led to violent riots in Copenhagen if we had not succeeded as demonstration leaders in keeping track of the troops.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517160418	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517160421	In general terms, then, we have to say that we did not actually get rid of the enormous riots that have been seen in other contexts. I do not know whether the credit is due only to Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen. In fact, I also believe that, overall, the police's efforts contributed to this. However, what happened during the climate summit has been followed up. The police themselves have done so, and at the same time this reporting system has been introduced. But when the clarification of the cases in which the police use this is available, I shall of course pass it on to the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, and then we will have to discuss it there.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517160455	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. The first rapporteur is Mrs Trine Bramsen from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517160508	The proposal here instructs the government to clarify Articles 8 and 9 of the Police Act during the current parliamentary year with a view to strengthening citizens' fundamental freedoms and legal certainty in connection with administrative detention. I would like to begin by saying that it is unrealistic that in this parliamentary year changes are being made to the law in this area, because we are so close to the end of the parliamentary year. For this reason alone, we cannot support the proposal as it stands here. Having said that, two years ago, an evaluation was carried out of the package of measures which, after all, tightened up the penalties in this area, thereby reviewing the use of administrative detention and, on that basis, no reason for change was found from a political point of view. Subsequently, further work has been started by the Minister for Justice, which it will be interesting to follow, among other things. the reports. As I have said, we must continue to follow the application of the law, but we cannot support the changes in the proposal here. Instead, however, we would suggest that we insist that this evaluation be carried out on the basis of knowledge, and if there is a marked increase in the use of the provision or otherwise of information contrary to the purpose of the law, then we are happy to discuss amendments but not as the proposal stands here. That is why we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517160648	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517160652	Thank you. When the package was adopted by the Left and the Conservatives and the Danish People's Party, the rapporteur's own party was after all out with criticism. Also the then legal rapporteur and later the Minister of Justice, Mrs Karen Hækkerup, was out with a scratch criticism of the law. It was one of those things. I mean, it's about expanding quite significantly the number of hours you can hold people without them doing anything illegal that was at the center. Then it is true that, under the former Socialist Minister for Justice, the evaluation of the puzzle package ended with nothing. However, I did not quite understand what the specific reason for not looking at the provision or these two paragraphs of the police law was when one basically disagreed with the puzzle package when it was adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517160748	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517160751	Well, it is true that, in the light of the evaluation that was available, in cooperation with the SF, which at that time was part of the government, we did not find any reason to amend this provision of the law. However, our call here must be that we follow the development of the use of this law and that further data are collected. We welcome this and that, on this basis, as we also had an evaluation of the law two years ago, we make political assessments as to whether there is a need for change.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517160823	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517160825	But now we have had the loony package for many years, and among other things. the Justitia and Berlingske think tank has uncovered this almost explosive increase in the use of administrative detentions. In these years we have far more than we had during COP15, and it can be said that it was the biggest event that has been on Danish soil and where supporters of the law could at least say that there were quite a lot of people who had to be handled for such a demonstration. So we now have an even greater degree of use, and we are continuing to receive sentences which show that administrative detention is being used illegally. So what else do we need to know? We can see the development. It is significantly increasing. What are we missing from knowledge? Is it because the rapporteur believes that Danish society has become much more unstable, troubled, criminal, or what do we lack knowledge about? We've got the numbers.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517160936	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517160938	I know that one of the areas where there has been an increase is in relation to foreign nationals. Here there may be challenges with other forms of prosecution. This is one of the places where there has been a marked increase. This means that social challenges and changes in crime have changed in recent years. That's also why we think it makes sense to look at this more thoroughly before we start making changes. It's been two years since we last had an evaluation of this law. There we found no reason for change. It is true that there has been an increase, but what the background to the increase is we think is actually relevant so that we do not suddenly remove a tool that turns out to be useful.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517161022	Thank you to Mrs Trine Bramsen. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peter Kofod Poulsen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517161037	The proposal is to clarify sections 8 and 9 of the Police Act in order to review the use of administrative detention. I shall start by saying that the Danish People's Party warmly supported the package back in 2009 when it was adopted, which increased the possibility of administrative detention from 6 to 12 hours. We are still in favour of the agreement that we reached at the time. It is our impression that this is an important means for the police to be able to keep track of a potentially dangerous situation. In the case of e.g. That a demonstration is running out of hand, or that dangerous situations for the surrounding society may arise, I think it is quite appropriate and quite fair that the police have these opportunities to take the air out of such situations if they are about to arise. We fully support that. This is a matter of taking care of our security, our law and our order in public space. We fully agree with that. So it will also be a no to this motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517161159	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517161204	Security, law and order It is something that DF's rapporteur appreciates. But what about the basic principle? It can be said that what is the question is that people are being held in administrative detention before they have done something illegal, but on the basis of suspicion. Does the rapporteur, as rapporteur for the legal system, not consider that there is also a problem there, i.e. that you can be detained for up to 12 hours sitting on frozen asphalt, as was the case during COP15 • without having done anything or intend to do anything? Maybe you're just in the wrong place at the wrong time. What about legal certainty and the sense of justice in it? Does the rapporteur not have any thoughts on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517161301	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517161304	I am well aware that in some ways here may be a dilemma. For me, it is just crucial that the police have the tools to enforce that there is order, that there is security, also for all those who would like to be involved in a peaceful demonstration and who remain completely within the boundaries of the law. Then it is quite good that the police have the opportunity to use administrative detention if the situation is getting out of hand or something is happening. I think that is quite good.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517161340	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517161343	But then it can be said that some of the almost 1,000 people who just wanted to participate in the demonstration, because they had some views on climate policy and climate change, etc., ended up sitting on frozen soil for many, many hours, detained without having done anything. That is what the courts have established: it was illegal mass arrest. What about these people? What about their right to participate in a demonstration? One of them was one of our youth politicians from Aalborg, and he said he was not sure that he ever wanted to take part in a demonstration again because it had been so cross-border to be detained without having done anything illegal or having anything illegal in mind. What about his legal certainty? The rapporteur has just mentioned that those people must also be allowed to exercise their freedom of assembly, or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517161435	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517161438	Yes, and it is fortunate for Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen's fellow party members and others that there is precisely a court system that can decide on that matter. It's happened, too. But, after all, when we make the board in this area, I have to say that there is clearly more to us in favour of giving this opportunity to the police than there is in favour of taking the opportunity from the police.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517161459	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517161501	Thank you. In other words, what I thought was so problematic with the package for the climate summit was that it put political pressure on the police. This is what I saw quite specifically as the co-organizer of this huge peaceful demonstration: that there was political pressure on the police, which led to violent action. After all, it was an interference in the freedom of expression and assembly of ordinary, peaceful demonstrators, and it was something that struck Mr. and Mrs Jensen, who had gone to the demonstration to get better climate action. And it is absolutely crucial, as I see it, that you have freedom of expression and assembly here in Denmark. So when the Danish People's Party weighs it down in the way they do, has the Danish People's Party also taken into account that when the police intervene in the way they did here, there is a huge, huge danger that it will all explode? Here we have quite peaceful demonstrators who have done nothing that is being illegally detained. It can lead to violent riots. Fortunately, this did not happen because demonstration guards and all sorts of others managed to keep track of it. But my personal experience was that the political pressure on the police could actually have provoked very, very violent riots. And it is certainly not for the sake of the police, nor for the sake of freedom of expression and assembly, that we should do nothing here on the part of the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517161633	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517161635	So I have to distance myself somewhat from the idea put forward by the questioner that the behaviour of the police should make others not be able to behave properly or go crazy. I would say that is a completely biased analysis. The point is, of course, that there are some rules. I firmly believe that the Danish police will, of course, follow until proven otherwise. I am very confident that the police will take that responsibility and carry out those tasks. And the fact that the police solve those tasks must never become an excuse for others not to behave properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517161709	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517161711	No, and that didn't happen either, fortunately. People behaved properly in the demonstration, and at that time it was the world's largest climate demonstration that managed to settle in good order. But what happened, unfortunately, was that 905 people were illegally detained. And what we in the Danish Parliament have a political responsibility to ensure is that 905 people, or how many, will in future not risk being affected by anything like this. And, for example, the proposal that is here could be adopted. So I just want to hear from the Danish People's Party on the basis of these experiences: Does it not make the impression that we have had such bad experiences in guaranteeing the freedom of expression and assembly of ordinary people as we unfortunately do?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517161801	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517161803	Everything makes an impression when it is presented to us in the Parliamentary Chamber. But it also makes a huge impression on us when the police say that this is an opportunity, that this is a tool that you are happy to have in the toolbox if the situation should arise. And when the police say so, we comply with it precisely because we value law and order in public space as much as we do. That is why it is also a tool that we would not be able to take from the police again, at least with what has come up here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517161832	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517161838	I would like to know whether the increasing number of cases of administrative detention is of no concern to the rapporteur at all. Because, personally, I wonder that when you increased it so that people could sit for 12 hours, it somehow caused the number to explode. Does that not surprise the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517161858	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517161901	Yes. I think the figure should be examined, and that is what I understand is happening at the moment. So, if that is the number of people you care about and if that is an argument for voting a proposal like this through, then I think that what you have to do is wait for an explanation of those figures. And if you think there is a case, you can table it again. But as it is now, I think we should wait for that work. I can't wait to learn these numbers.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517161927	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517161930	Of course, you can have that attitude. I could actually be in line with that, but vice versa I also feel that although there is a good explanation, I think it is important that we give people the opportunity to demonstrate here at home in Denmark. Does the rapporteur not agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517161953	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517161955	Yes, absolutely. I hope there are 179 members of this Parliament who think that people should of course be given the opportunity to do so. That's not what we're after at all. This is a very specific tool that the police have in the toolbox if a situation should arise • a tool that the police are happy about. Then, as Mrs Josephine Fock herself said, there is work going on to find out what this increase is due to and, of course, the result of that we will wait and we will certainly talk about it more.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517162024	Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517162028	Quite a short time ago, the rapporteur and I were instrumental in creating a package of respect for those who are unable to behave properly. What has been done with the lilies package is also to put ordinary Danes at risk of being administratively detained, even though they have actually done nothing at all. The tool we are discussing here is, in fact, one of the most unanswered that exists: an undemocratic, legally questionable intervention against ordinary people. That does not, of course, fit the impression I have of the rapporteur's party and of the rapporteur himself, so one could not open up a little to see if one could be on the side of the citizens rather than using this original tool?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517162119	I would like to sign for the quite excellent package of respect that we have contributed to together with the Liberal Alliance. I think that was a step in the right direction, but I don't think this should be either-or. It can be both-and. In other words, it could be both the respect package on the one hand and the proposal that we are dealing with now for administrative arrests on the other. I'm just sensitive to the fact that the police are happy to have this opportunity. I think we should listen to this and take it very seriously. At the same time, there is work to uncover the increase in the number of administrative detentions. I think it would be premature and wrong if, before that work is done, we took a tool from the police, which the police think is important. That would be fundamentally wrong. We're not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517162207	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517162211	It's a little marvelous. It shouldn't be either-or, it should be both-and. I mean, it has to be the case that we go after those who cause trouble and commit crimes and that we have to bother ordinary people. It's both-and in mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen's optics. I think it might be a little fresh to go into such a boat-and-optics. Actually, I think it should be either-or. I think we should go after the troublemakers and the criminals and leave ordinary people alone. What the legislation, which the SF is so nice to allow us to do something about, has meant is that ordinary Danes who simply exercise their constitutional rights are bothered by the political majority in this House. So let it be either-or in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517162255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517162258	I think it is now the Liberal Alliance's question that is a little fresh in the mouth here when it comes to saying that we should be in favour of one thing and the other and that ordinary people should suffer. Let's just take this really easy. This is an important tool. We'll hold on to that. Then I know there's gonna be an inventory. We will then look at it and then I am sure we can discuss it again. But everything else would be completely hasty, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517162325	Thank you, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen. The next rapporteur is Mrs Britt Baker from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517162333	With this resolution, the SF wants to change the rules on administrative detention, including lowering the maximum duration from 12 to 6 hours. The Minister has already examined in detail, in consultation recently, the rules, measures taken, conclusions and questions relating specifically to administrative detention. Following that review, I would like to emphasise two very important points concerning the use of administrative detention by the police. First of all, it is not an approach that the police often take. We are talking about an option that the police only use when necessary, in other words in situations where other interventions are not sufficient. Secondly, administrative detention is not a criminal offence on the part of the police. On the contrary, it is an opportunity for the police to anticipate potentially dangerous situations that could develop and pose a significant security risk. So we are talking about being at the forefront rather than at the rear end of situations that could potentially pose a risk to other people. With the two points in mind, of course, the Left is entirely in agreement with the Minister. It is both sensible and necessary for the police to be able to make use of administrative detention. As you know, work has already begun on identifying when the police are in practice using administrative detention, and consideration is also given to whether there is a need for adjustments in relation to the legislation in force in this area. We in the Left would like to await the results of this work. Because if the law is to be adjusted, and it may have to, we want to do so on an enlightened basis. In addition to clarifying the rules of the police law, proposers want to roll back the maximum duration of administrative detentions. In other words, this is the opposite of the increase made in 2009. And in 2009 the National Police recommended that the maximum duration should be raised to 12 hours because it had been found that in some cases the 6 hours were not long enough. The police have once again indicated that there are exceptional situations in which there is still a need for detention for up to 12 hours. This is an expression to which we in the Left are listening, of course, with the emphasis that administrative detention must be as short and gentle as possible at all times. It must do so with a view, among other things, to: to ensure the legal certainty of citizens. Overall, the Left cannot support this motion for a resolution, and I will tell you from the Consevatives that neither can they.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517162653	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517162658	Thank you. I would like to ask what the rapporteur thinks about the increase, in other words the very, very marked increase in administrative detentions, also on the basis of the principle that I heard the rapporteur say a little bit about the fact that this should happen as rarely as possible and as briefly and gentlely as possible, that is to say, it is something that needs to be used in very, very rare cases. If you look only at the types of administrative detention that the police categorize while maintaining order and security, there has been an increase in the number of administrative detentions of 1.351 per cent. from 2005 to 2014, i.e. from the first year when it came into force, to the last year when we have full data. What is the rapporteur's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517162748	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517162751	I do not think that the increase in itself is a problem. I think it is a problem if the police use administrative detention when it is not to be used.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517162803	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517162806	We weren't some kind of anarchist society before 2004. There were plenty of tools, and the rapporteur knows this very well, even as a lawyer that the police had in relation to disbanding demonstrations or other things. So in relation to the principle of using this tool as rarely as possible and as gently as possible and as few hours as possible, can the number mean something, too? After all, thousands of people are being held in administrative detention every year, before they have done anything illegal. Does not the rapporteur, as a member of a liberal party, also know that we are being punished for something we have not done? Isn't there a little too much thought police about it, at least when it's as widespread as we see it now?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517162856	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517162859	I don't know if I have any victories about it. However, as I said before, it is a problem at the moment when the police are using administrative detention where it is not to be used. The increase is not a problem; it is the use of administrative detention which, for me, is a problem. But having said that, I am waiting for the Minister's work in this area. When it is the case that I am not backing and the Left is not backing this proposal, is it because we want an in-depth investigation into the area and it is finished after the summer break, then should we not just sit down and calm down and wait for the results of that study?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517162941	Thank you to Mrs Britt Baker. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517162949	Thank you. After all, it has been some time since there was a major climate demonstration in Copenhagen, back in 2009, and today we are writing on 17 May 2016, and since then there have been a large number of examples, unfortunately, of violations of freedom of expression and assembly on the basis of this legislation. So what I really would like to hear from the Left rapporteur is: how long do we have to wait? Now you shoot it like to the corner again with a statement. How long does the Left want to keep waiting? And why not just go in and make these measures which would ensure better security for the freedom of expression and assembly of ordinary Danes?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517163034	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517163037	Why not just go in and make some measures? But I have just said that it is important for me and for the Left that we should not just go into it on an uninformed basis. So when we do not just go into it, it is because we want to wait for the outcome of that study. I do not just want to make hoovesa solutions, I actually want to see that when we are going to examine whether something is appropriate or inappropriate, it is done on an enlightened basis. And I'd like that if I were you, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen also did.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517163109	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517163112	I can reassure the rapporteur of the Left that, of course, I always think about it, and that is a very good principle in life. In fact, I think this proposal does not put it forward by the Enhedslisten, it is SF, but we support it. And I do not really think it is hasty to write freedom of expression and assembly into the law of the police, or to learn from the bad experiences of COP15 back in 2009, and to reduce the period during which people can be held in administrative detention, in view of the common concern that I actually experience with the Enhedslisten and the Left, namely that we must not have an administrative detention which is unjustified. And that, unfortunately, is what we saw back in 2009. So I do not think it is an hasty proposal that lies here. I think it is timely care and that it is time to take action, and there we may have a disagreement with the Left. But I think it is positive if the Left here says clearly that if the statement that is coming shows that action is needed, then it is also prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517163221	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517163224	I believe that this is a necessary tool if it is used in a proportionate and appropriate way. That is why I am also looking forward to the investigation initiated by the Minister of Justice, which has already been completed after the summer break. And if it shows that this is used inappropriately, then I am willing to act accordingly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517163244	Thank you, Mrs. Britt Baker, and welcome to Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517163251	How do you put the microphone down? I am not quite as tall as Mrs Britt Baker, I have to admit that. On the other hand, I can say that this is a very good proposal. We in the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party believe that it is absolutely essential that we protect freedom of expression and assembly. It is a very, very central element of our democracy, a very, very central element of our people's rule, and unfortunately we see that there are major problems and there have been times when freedom of expression and assembly has been violated in recent years, among others. exactly the use of administrative detention, which is why we have also raised this problem on the Enhedslisten side in several rounds. We raised it back in 2012, for example in the context of the financial law negotiations. At that time it was rejected by the then government and just a short time ago we raised the problem of consultation. That, of course, is why we are today in favour of the proposal. Because we want to take action and we want to learn from the bad experiences that unfortunately have been. As the draftsmen of the SF highlight, there has, among other things, been. was the problematic detention on Queen Louises Bro in Copenhagen, which proved to be in violation of police law. There have been problems with the Chinese state visits over the last few years in several rounds, where the police have simply intervened against the freedom of expression of demonstrators, unfortunately even on the basis of the law of the police. This shows, of course, the shortcomings that we unfortunately have and the importance of having freedom of expression and assembly entered into the law of the police, which is exactly what is in the proposal here. SF also highlights the problems of illegal mass arrests in connection with the COP15 climate summit in Copenhagen back in 2009, and I personally had the experience, as I have already mentioned, of being a demonstration leader in this very, very large, peaceful demonstration. Some 110,000 people were gathered in Copenhagen, and the police refused to listen to our advice from the demonstration management and intervened and made an illegal mass arrest of 905 people. It was a gross interference in the freedom of assembly for a large, large number of quite peaceful demonstrators. It was deeply problematic and something that sent out a violent signal into the world, but it was also something that put a quite peaceful demonstration at risk. It was very positive that we managed to keep people calm, and I think that these bad experiences back from 2009 show how unwise it can be when political pressure is put on the police for everything in the world to hit hard, regardless of what may have consequences for the freedoms of ordinary, peaceful demonstrators, but also the consequences it may have in terms of putting the conduct of a peaceful demonstration at risk. So from Enhedslisten we can support this motion for a resolution from the SF. If we do not succeed today in obtaining a majority, then we will just keep going, and hopefully we will soon get it in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517163649	Thank you, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen. There are no brief comments. The next one is sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517163701	I'll teach you, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, that if you put it down further, you look incredibly tall on TV, but that is another aspect of the matter. Thank you to the SF for another exciting and relevant motion for a resolution which we have the opportunity to deal with here, namely the proposal for better legal certainty in relation to administrative detention. After all, this is a matter that has been marting the people's regime for 61⁄2 years, namely, ever since a very narrow majority in autumn 2009 adopted the so-called lumber package. The Liberal Alliance was already opposed at that time, and if there was one thing that we rejoiced about in the 2011 parliamentary elections, of course beyond our own progress, it was that we knew that the new government that came to that time would roll back the lewd package, for it had both the Social Democracy, the SF and the Radical Left promised. However, that did not happen, so we had to be disappointed. Although we had even made a political agreement with the then government and the Enhedslist to ensure that something was done about this, it turned out that three successive Social Democratic Justice Ministers were unable to honour the promise given to the Folketing. Then we had actually hoped here after the 2015 elections that it was only because you had gotten into the hands of the officials that you apologized to the officials down there and that you had now come out of those claws and again had your own political views, but there we have then today been disappointed. We hope that, once the study has been completed, we can get the Social Democracy back, as we knew it back before 2011, because this is of course important in terms of content. Administrative detention of citizens is, from the outset, a bad thing. After all, it is not very good in a constitutional state that citizens can be detained by the authorities administratively. And, of course, it was not good that the time period in which it could be done was extended from 6 hours to 12 hours, and that, and I do not think we have discussed that much today, we have also expanded the number of people who could be detained. After all, you no longer have anything to do directly with it, but you can really just be in the wrong place at the wrong time. My favourite example from the debate that we had 61⁄2 years ago is about the citizen going down to buy 1⁄4 litres of whip cream in the kiosk, which lies right where the demonstration is and which, in fact, can risk being administratively detained just because he is in the wrong place at the wrong time. It can also exert the pressure that we have had during the day that citizens become more reluctant to go to ordinary demonstrations. It is, after all, a pillar of a democratic society that one can unite and express one's opinions, even when they are opposed to those in power. There should be no doubt whatsoever that in the Liberal Alliance we want to come after people who want to cause trouble, commit violence and engage in vandalism, and we want to come hard after them. That is also why we are pleased to have reached an agreement on the so-called respect package with the Minister of Justice and the other blue parties. These are proposals that have a clean line in going after those who violate the basic rules of our society. This is contrary to what these rules are all about, where ordinary citizens can get caught and be detained without the possibility of being brought before a judge. Of course, the Liberal Alliance has also taken note of the formalist issue raised by the Socialist rapporteur, Mrs Trine Bramsen, namely that it should be in the current parliamentary year. It may be very ambitious, but can we not, together, table an amendment and delete it with the parliamentary year and then move on and just say that it should be this year? Because then I think the government can make a proposal. So the Liberal Alliance is in favour of the proposal and I really think there is reason to thank the SF for having put it forward. After all, the SF has, in any case, released itself from whatever claws it may have been in at the time when the old electoral vow was not respected. It must be forgiven ■ especially now that the motion for a resolution has been tabled.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517164147	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517164152	There are many of the sins of the past I would like to take on, but I would also like to say that it was before my time that we first dealt with this proposal, but as far as I can see Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, rapporteur, when the package was adopted, and so was Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, my predecessor in the post. I have just been reading through the speeches of the various rapporteurs, and there I have to say that the money was slammed if one can use such language in here. So I absolutely do not believe that anyone was in doubt about either the views of the Liberal Alliance or the SF at that time. Then it is true that when we were in government, we did not manage to change it. There's so much like that. I just have a short service information. It was back in January that I represented the SF in connection with this legal certainty package, freedom of expression and assembly package. Well, then we've been very busy with this thing, and that's why it couldn't be dealt with until now. I will certainly not let a chance slip away that a majority can be created for this, so of course we are just making an amendment. Unfortunately, I do not think it can satisfy Mrs Trine Bramsen in that it was a small formalist thing that stood in the way of the Socialists being able to support it. However, I am very pleased with the Liberal Alliance's support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517164309	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517164311	Well, thank you for your kindness and also for your service information. And it has to be said that, against bureaucracy, even socialists are fighting in vain.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517164326	The questioner doesn't have any more questions. Thank you very much, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll. The next rapporteur is Mrs Josephine Fock from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517164332	Thank you. I will not comment on the height of the platform, but it can be said that I have done it anyway, and I would rather run it up a bit. Today we are dealing with B 103, which is a proposal for a parliamentary resolution on better legal certainty in the area of administrative detention. SF wants to impose on the government in this parliamentary year we have just heard that we can extend it to the next parliamentary year; I think it is very good to clarify sections 8 and 9 of the Police Act in order to strengthen citizens' fundamental freedoms and legal certainty in connection with administrative detention. I have to say straight away that the alternative shares SF's concern in this area. I believe that there is a huge increase in administrative detention and there are a relatively large number of cases, including the Tibet case, where detention and injunctions have been carried out on illegal or questionable grounds. In this light, in the alternative, we believe that the government should take the initiative to strengthen the police law's protection of citizens' fundamental freedoms. We therefore support the authors of the motion for a resolution in their desire that the law on police should be amended so that freedom of expression is directly enshrined in the law, so that it is made clear that the freedom of expression and assembly must be given more weight when the police have to balance these rights with respect to public order and security. I think it is absolutely crucial that there is no doubt that you can take part in demonstrations and that you can also stand and look at them without being at risk of being detained for administrative purposes. Developments point to the need for a priority for the sake of legal certainty in this area, in particular with regard to freedom of expression, freedom of assembly and legal certainty. Therefore, we support the clarification of sections 8 and 9 of the Police Act. I would also like to comment on the Minister's statement to look at why the use of administrative detention has then been tightened up so significantly. Of course, I'm really, really happy about that. This is among other things. on the basis of some of my own questions to the Minister that there has been an answer to that. I just think that the Minister should express concern, because the increase in the use of it suggests that something is quite wrong. There may in fact be something wrong that cannot even be resolved by means of a change in legislation. So I also look forward to having a clarification as to why the use has been so increased. But in the first place we support the SF's proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517164626	Thank you to Mrs Josephine Fock. Then it is Mrs Zenia Stampe from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517164632	Thank you. We would also like to support the clarification of the rules on detention. It can of course be argued that there is already some clarification on the basis of the judgments that have been handed down, because we assume, of course, that the police are complying with the judgments which have been handed down and which have also been referred to in the comments to the resolution. On the other hand, we are also concerned when we hear about the increase in the use of administrative detentions, as several have also mentioned from up here, and we therefore very much welcome the fact that the Minister of Justice will investigate the area and look forward to the discussions that will follow that investigation. If we support this proposal, despite the fact that there is one, it can be said that clarification takes place through the judgments that have been handed down, it is because we think that it must be more satisfactory not only for the police but also for the citizens that this clarification takes place politically and in advance, instead of the police, so to speak, having to test themselves out and then be corrected by the courts. This is one way to do it, but it also makes us, I think, a rather unsatisfactory place where neither police nor citizens really know what they have to do well with. It may well be that over the next ten years we could then have a practice and clarification through a number of judgments, but we think it is unsatisfactory that it should be done in this way. We also support the roll-back of the maximum length of administrative detention, i.e. from 12 to 6 hours. We would also like to see what the authors of the motion for a resolution say here, and that is that the second part of the puzzle package is also amended, that is to say, the rules on aggravating circumstances when a relationship has been committed, while or immediately following a serious disturbance of order in an area. It's not gonna be in this round, but we're still very keen to change that, anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517164826	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517164830	Thank you for your comments. I actually understand what the rapporteur means in relation to the judgments that have been made. But what worries me is that it sounds as if it does not penetrate those parties that do not want to change the law, in other words that these judgments are almost seen as some sort of satellite thing that is next to and does not really have so much to do with the judgment. It's just something where apparently there hasn't been the right assessment, but where the law is good enough as it is. I find it rare that we have legislation where there have been so many people involved in the sentence, without saying that this was an illegal mass arrest. So it is quite extreme that we see the courts repeatedly judge that this is illegal mass arrest. At the same time, we see that with these judgments there is only an increase in the number of administrative detentions that is many, many more than in the year in which we had COP15, namely in 2009 and then we are told by the government that now we have to look at it more and that we lack more knowledge. With all due respect, we have heard of this very, very many times before. That is why I understand the rapporteur's assessment of what is that a precedent has been created in the courts, but we also need to get it written into the law because it clearly does not do enough about the practice that exists today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517164955	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517164959	I can only agree with that. I didn't really understand it as a question either, but more as a reflection on my reflection, and we come to the same conclusion.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517165007	Does the questioner have any further questions? Fine. Then we thank Mrs Zenia Stampe. Then it is the rapporteur of the proposers, and that is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517165025	I would like to thank you for the nice remarks that have been made in the resolution from at least some quarters of the House. I recognise that the Minister for Justice has set in motion work to investigate what these massive increases in the number of administrative detentions cover. However, former justice ministers have been involved in the question of whether or not to evaluate the law. I just think it is very interesting to go back and look at what the various parties said when they made the puzzle package, and I actually think Lone Dybkjær from the Radical Left said very well when she said: I think that is really remarkable, and there I think we have made a quantum leap in relation to what the government has done in the past. And it wasn't nice what she said about the VK government there. She also had another point, as Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll also mentioned: Space is expanding, and that in itself is quite worrying. And when it is combined with the fact that you can be held for up to 12 hours and get prison sentences for 40 days, then I think the goal is really full. Mrs Lone Dybkjær said so. Karen Hækkerup, who was then rapporteur and later became Minister of Justice, said that it is clear that when a new majority comes with a new government, one will sit down and review the laws of the country. If it turns out that there will be major problems with this bill, what I fear there will, we will change the law. She also said that as long as there is no guarantee that this law will not hit the wrong ones, she could not add votes to it. Those were some very good comments, but unfortunately we have only seen that this law has gone one way. What the parties that were against it warned against at the time was that it would hit the wrong people and go beyond full fundamental rights, including rights enshrined in international conventions, and there are several judgments that say that this kind of illegal mass arrest does not work. That is why, of course, we need to change the law. Finally, I would also like to remind you that, when the package was adopted, it was with massive criticism from national courts, the National Association of Defence Attorneys, the Criminal Services, the Court of Justice, the Institute for Human Rights and, above all, the trade union movement. The latter should also make an impression on the Socialists, because there is, after all, a fairly wide space in which to exercise this law. Thank you, however, for the support of the parties that support it, and then we will see if the study that is now being launched leads to something. Otherwise, we will re-create parties that think it should be changed, perhaps jointly in the next session.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517165326	There is a brief comment from Mrs Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517165331	Thank you. The part of the motion for a resolution I would like to ask about is that the SF wants to reduce the penalty from 12 hours to 6 hours. Now that SF is tabling a motion for a resolution in which the SF wants to reduce the penalty, i.e. back to the 6 hours, I will be a little curious to know what the reason for this is. Is this because the SF believes that the police have taken too much advantage of the maximum number of hours, namely 12 hours, or what is actually the reason for making proposals to put it back to 6 hours?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517165407	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517165411	I will answer, but basically I would like to say that this is an intervention. I think that Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll said it so well, that using it at all is quite problematic in a constitutional state. If, then, there are quite specific individual cases where the police consider it necessary... the police also have other tools... then, of course, we must ensure that, in the words of Mrs Britt Baker, it becomes as gentle, brief and in as few cases as possible. And that has it with how long you can hold people in, something to say, also in relation to what is being written into the law. And there we simply believe that 12 hours is too long and that you have to go back to the 6 hours as it was before. But we also believe that it should be specifically written into the law that there are, in other words, some fundamental rights that we would like to draw attention to, namely freedom of expression and assembly. And at worst it can be purely symbolic policy, and at best it can be a very clear political statement to the police that this is something that we in the Folketing think is very, very important. For there is no doubt that a very strong signal was sent the other way, that is to say to the police, that there were now some expectations in relation to COP15 and so on, and that these extensions were now being made, both in relation to the penalty framework, the timeframe and to whom the provision would apply.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517165537	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517165540	I am pleased that Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen himself mentions symbolic policy. For now we have talked a lot about figures today. We have talked a lot about the increase in the number of administrative detentions. And I can inform Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen that during the period from 7 December 2009 to 15 March 2015, only four cases have been reported where the administrative detention was longer than 6 hours. Does that not impress the rapporteur? Are we not talking about symbolic policy when the rapporteur wants to reduce the number of hours from 12 to 6 hours? Four cases were reported from 2009 to 2015.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517165626	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517165630	I am counting on the rapporteur's opinion on the other side of COP15, because there I think we all remember that there were a great many cases. And if you took part in the demonstration, as I did, then it was a bit violent to see close to 1,000 people, ordinary demonstrators, being detained and sitting on frozen asphalt it was very, very cold on that day and some of them got into so-called climate prisons. I do not think that belongs to a community governed by the rule of law, and when the package was made, it was, in a sense, a kind of symbolic policy, since it would also send a very strong signal to the police about what was politically expected here. I mean, when Mrs Britt Baker just goes around on the other side of COP15 and says that there have only been a few cases, why not change it? Because it is a task for politicians in this Chamber to create a framework which seems reasonable, and I think it is very strange that a legal rapporteur for a so-called liberal party thinks that it is reasonable in a legal society both to be able to retain for up to 12 hours, to expand the circle of persons and to extend the penalties for something that has not been done, that is to say that one is innocent. I hope the rapporteur will agree with that. Because if you've done something illegal, it's quite another thing we're talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517165752	You can say "you" if that means "man." And I thank Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the motion for a resolution be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs. No one objects to this, and that is why I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517165817	The debate is open, and the first one we invite to the platform is the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517165841	It has to be said that Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen has offered to dance today, and I am always happy with that, so here is another one. This is then a resolution which highlights a very important area, namely the fight against discrimination in nightlife. Discrimination is an unacceptable violation of a person's fundamental rights, and I, as the Minister for Justice, agree that there must also be targeted action to combat discrimination in nightlife. The government therefore supports the intentions behind the proposals. There can be no doubt about that, but we cannot support the resolution itself and the initiatives that are being proposed. Before going into my position on the motion for a resolution, I would like to point out, for the sake of good order, that the proposal concerns the areas of responsibility of several ministers. A change in the restaurant law is the responsibility of the Minister for Industry and Growth, while the level of compensation in nightlife discrimination is the responsibility of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing. Today, I will stick to what I know about and for which I, as Minister of Justice, also have the overall responsibility, i.e.: the question of whether to introduce so-called employer responsibility into the Racial Discrimination Act, so that the employer becomes responsible for the actions of employees when they are at work. Of course, during the committee's examination of the proposal, there will be ample opportunity to get answers to any questions that may be raised in the areas of the Minister for Industry and Growth and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing. We'll come all the way around. The motion for a resolution calls for the employer to be responsible in all cases for the actions of his doorman. In this context, I would like to make it clear that there is already an opportunity today to prosecute both the doorman concerned and, for example, a daily manager, manager or authorisation holder for violation of the Racial Discrimination Act. If a daily manager, manager or grant holder has issued oral or written guidelines that young people of ethnic origin other than Danish may not be admitted to a disco or bar, then they can already be punished. In addition, so-called corporate responsibility for violation of the Racial Discrimination Act may also be imposed. It is therefore not necessary to amend the law in order to ensure that employers may incur liability for breach of the Racial Discrimination Act. I must also understand the motion for a resolution in such a way that it is proposed to introduce what is called objective individual responsibility into the law on racial discrimination. Objective individual responsibility, in which an employer can therefore be fined for the actions of his employees, should only be introduced in exceptional circumstances. This must be seen in the context of the fact that such a form of liability cannot be attributed to the employer as intentionally or negligently that an offence has been committed. In other words, the table captures for the employer, he is liable for criminal law for the actions of his employees, although the employer cannot be blamed for anything. I sincerely believe that such a form of responsibility would be to go too far in the fight against discrimination in nightlife. In practice, such a form of liability would mean that the employer who actually has, therefore, I do not see for myself that we are introducing such objective individual responsibility. Instead, I believe that dialogue and information are the way forward. There is no need to change the law on racial discrimination, that is not the solution, so although I am absolutely convinced that the resolution has been carried by the best intentions and intentions of the proposer, the government cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517170230	There is a comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517170233	Thank you for the comments of the Minister, although the government does not support the proposal. I have two specific questions. One is whether the Minister recognises discrimination in nightlife. That's one thing. The second is whether the Minister believes that the law should be amended so that there is no longer an employer's responsibility in relation to accidents at work and in relation to the sale of alcohol to minors. The latter was actually because there is an employer's responsibility, and that is actually what we want to see spread to door-to-door policy, because we simply do not believe in either with the many inputs we have received that door-to-door policy is determined by the individual door-to-door man.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517170321	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517170323	About the first question: Yes, there is. On the other hand, the studies I am immediately familiar with and this is completely from the memory that the coverage of the scope shows that it is quite small. The way I remember it. But yes, of course there are individual cases in which this is happening, or rather, I think we have legislation that is appropriate in this context. On the second question, I simply have to report a passport. I didn't quite catch what it was all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517170357	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517170359	It was actually about extending the employer's responsibility, as there are other areas too, and saying that you as an employer have a number of responsibilities. For example: you are also responsible for whether alcohol is sold to minors, and there we also think there should be an employer responsibility in relation to door policy. But indirectly, the Minister has answered that question. Today, it is not for nightlife, but for nightlife, but at least for the context of it, and they cannot and must not place emphasis on the decisions of the Equal Opportunities Board. So, even if you pay attention to them, you should not place emphasis on them. And it is from some of the bodies that I have heard a certain frustration that cases are repeatedly brought in where it is an individual decision, that is to say against the individual doorman, and you see some patterns, but you cannot do anything in general because the decisions have just been made on the individual person, and you cannot do anything about the door policy itself because it does not affect the employer. The latter was mostly a comment, but there is something in relation to some of the grant boards that really want to have some scope for action when rulings on the same subject come again and again from the Equal Opportunities Board.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517170522	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517170524	It must, of course, be revealed during the committee's work how it is more concrete in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517170531	Then it is time to thank the Minister. We turn to the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mrs Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517170550	The proposal here obliges the government to take the necessary initiatives to prevent discrimination in nightlife during the current parliamentary year. The proposers would like to see, among other things: to amend the Law on Restaurants so as to place emphasis on the decisions of the Equal Treatment Board in relation to the handling of grant cases and to emphasise the law on racial discrimination, so that employers become responsible for the actions of employees while they are at work. The proposal also proposes a substantial increase in the level of compensation for night-time discrimination. I would like to start by saying that we in the Social Democratic Party are very concerned that discrimination does not take place in the nightlife. This is also the reason why we have several times together with others. The youth parties have launched campaigns, as have municipalities where we have the mayor's posts, and have run targeted campaigns aimed at both the hostels and the public. Discrimination is also a problem in nightlife, and therefore it requires a political focus. There are elements in this proposal that we would like to discuss further. However, I would also like to say at the outset that the only thing that concerns the implementation of these measures in the current parliamentary year is unrealistic here too, because there are only a few weeks left of this assembly. And I doubt that there will be support for urgent treatment of this. That is why we cannot support the proposal as it stands here. We are happy to continue to discuss the part concerning the fact that the grant boards must place emphasis on the decisions of the Equal Opportunities Board. However, it should be noted that it is now locally determined which parameters are weighted in the allocation of appropriations. There is very little that is centrally regulated by the appropriations and thus by age and educational background. But that is why there is a fundamental discussion about whether we should deprive the municipal authorities of their decision-making powers in these matters; whether we should further centralise on this point. But we are happy to take that debate in the Committee on Legal Affairs. One alternative, of course, would be to call locally for parameters to be included which ensure the same as those relating to the rulings of the Equal Opportunities Board. We are also happy to discuss the other elements, but we are sceptical about depriving someone of personal responsibility when it comes to discrimination. As the Minister also explained very clearly, it is already possible to prosecute an employer who encourages employees to discriminate. If we are to go further than that, this means that the employer must legally pay for an employee who, on his own, does not comply with the law, and that violates a central legal principle. We are more sceptical about that. With those words, I would like to say that we fully support the intention of the proposal. I think we can make a great deal of progress in discussing this subject in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, and possibly in holding a mini-expert hearing. However, we are concerned about the concrete initiatives in the proposal before us for a number of reasons why we cannot support them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517170937	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517170939	I hope we can find each other. First of all, I hope that we will not have to discuss with each and every proposal that the SF has made back this winter whether we can vote for it or not, because it is in the current parliamentary year. We will, of course, deal with this with an amendment. That is because it has been put forward for a very long time. We're very busy with things, so that's why it's only now. That, of course, does not matter at all. As far as political content is concerned, I do not know whether I should understand the rapporteur's view that the Social Democrats are suddenly no longer in favour of employer responsibility, because I think that the Social Democrats are doing so in a large number of areas in relation to accidents at work and so on. So it is not such a general dispute with employer responsibility as the rapporteur is doing here, is it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517171030	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517171031	No, this is about the criminal code.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517171035	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517171036	What is the problem here and, as I have heard from many local grant boards, which will continue to be local, is that they cannot or cannot place emphasis on the decisions of the Equal Opportunities Board, and that is what they think is the problem. They want that as a parameter. So if we are focusing on this alone, what will the rapporteur say about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517171101	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517171102	This is the part that we would like to discuss and that I think we should discuss in depth in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. I'm not sure that it's the best solution for us to centralize and decide how to do it in this Parliament, but we could make some guidelines, some choices where we can place more emphasis on decisions; open up alternative options that can be used as parameters locally, so give them the ideas on how to weigh these parameters to achieve the same goal. We are happy to discuss this. I just cannot stand here from Parliament's platform and say what I mean or what I am sure is the best solution, but let us discuss it in the Committee on Legal Affairs. Let's get some good kicks from experts on the field, and I'm sure we can figure out a good solution for this part.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517171200	Thank you to Mrs Bramsen, there are no more brief remarks. Then the trip is now to sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517171217	Thank you. The proposal itself, on which I would like to start, states that the Danish Parliament is instructing the government to take the necessary initiatives to prevent discrimination in nightlife. Then, when you turn to the comments, you come across the phrase: "This is a clear breach of applicable law. I really think this debate and this motion for a resolution quite well frame this, because we are dealing with the problem that should have been resolved today with the law in force. There is a complaint body, which is sanctionable, which is the law in force. All options are in fact available. So no, I do not think there is any need for further action, such as. the motion for a resolution before us. It is our clear impression that we have the tools needed to avoid encountering problems such as those presented here. So on that grounds I can say that we in the Danish People's Party cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517171328	There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517171333	Thank you. Because there is something that is illegal, one can still say that there are problems either in raising the burden of proof or because one can see that something is still a problem, despite the fact that it is a breach of discrimination law. There we have heard from several places that 1) it is difficult to lift the burden of proof and 2) the sanctions that exist are, in some people's eyes, so ridiculously small that you just live with that if that is the door policy you have. Normally DF would like to be a part of discussing harsher punishment, if at least with DF's eyes you think there is an area where there is a little too much slings in the waltz. Would the rapporteur agree with me that it is very small amounts that have to be paid if you are told that you have violated the law?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517171438	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517171440	The questioner raises two questions. The first is the burden of proof and the possibility of lifting it, and there I do not see what it is in the resolution that makes it better if it is adopted. So, what exactly is it in the proposal that makes it easier to lift a burden of proof? The second is in relation to the amount of the fine, and I think we are quite well placed as we are today. One can always discuss this in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, and we would like to do so, but our impression is that the rules are quite clear and precise in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517171513	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517171515	So DF's rapporteur thinks it's breaking the law and getting a fine of DKK 2,000. is very appropriate. That is not entirely consistent in its legal policy, I would say. But what we are proposing is three things. The second is that the Act on Restaurants is being revised so that the grant boards can include the decisions of the Equal Opportunities Board in their work when they simply have to carry out their work in the grant boards. So that's really just what they're asking for: can we use these verdicts in our work? The third is to introduce this employer responsibility, as we do in other areas, in other words, in relation to the supply of alcohol to minors, accidents at work and so on. So that is the trinity of the proposal which we believe will make a positive difference in that area.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517171606	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517171607	I have read the proposal, so I am well aware of what the proposal is about. But I did not get an answer to the question now, of course, it is the questioner who can ask me what it was that should make it easier, for example. to lift the burden of proof, which was one of the points raised by the questioner in the first round. So I think we're just sticking to the fact that the existing rules actually hit quite well. Then you can always talk about enforcement, and then we can talk about that in the Committee on Legal Affairs, but I actually think that we are covered with what is now there.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517171636	Coming time, coming advice. The rapporteur will later have the opportunity to put questions to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. But thank you for your speech. The next rapporteur is Mrs Britt Baker on the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517171650	Thank you. As the Minister and the two previous rapporteurs have already mentioned, this proposal deals with discrimination in nightlife. Of course, I agree that any form of discrimination does not belong anywhere, even in nightlife. That is why I am fully in line with the intention behind this proposal. As the Minister has already pointed out, several of the initiatives fall within the remit of other ministries, and I would therefore like, like the Minister, to address what is actually within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice. When I look at the current legislation on discrimination, I think it is sufficient, both in terms of rules and remedies. Actually, I think they're comprehensive and pretty clear. And when I compare the existing rules with initiatives to amend the law on racial discrimination, I believe that the proposal here will result in double regulation rather than anything else. And no one can benefit from that, especially not the restaurants that should be subject to this legislation. In addition, I am very sceptical, in line with the Minister, about the proposal to introduce objective individual responsibility. This is a legislative initiative with which we must be very careful, and it is an initiative that can create far more problems than solutions. Such a form of responsibility would be to go too far in the fight against discrimination in nightlife. So, despite the fact that we in the Left understand the intention behind this proposal, we cannot support the specific content of the proposal. And I was told by the Conservatives that neither can they.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517171850	Thank you to Mrs Britt Baker. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Nikolaj Villumsen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517171912	In the Enhedslisten, we agree that discrimination must be abolished in nightlife and that much, much more should be done to combat it. For many years we have heard about young people with other ethnic backgrounds who have been rejected at the entrance to discotheques. And since the problems continue to arise, it is very, very clear that they do not go away by themselves. In the Enhedslisten, therefore, we also fully agree that the Restaurant Act should be amended so that orders from the Equal Treatment Board can have an impact on the continued grant, as the SF is proposing here. We also agree that employers should be held responsible for the actions of employees when there are rejections at the door. Both measures can make discot owners think carefully before instructing doormen to discriminate or implicitly accept racial discrimination. We are also prepared to look at the level of compensations proposed by the SF to be increased. So the Enhedslisten is generally in favour of the SF's motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517172030	Thank you, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517172048	Thank you to the SF for putting another important topic on the agenda this afternoon, namely a proposal for less discrimination in nightlife. It is certainly a headline that I think everyone can support in that way that it is of course not right for people to be discriminated against on the basis of their race or skin color. If the Liberal Alliance still cannot support the specific resolution before us, it is more because we are concerned about the concrete results that will be of imposing on the government, among other things. that the employer becomes responsible for the actions of the employees when they are at work I understand that it must be more so than today and that we are concerned about what it will be important for, you might say, the high-risk places that there are at the moment, where you need at least to be able to reject people who have a threatening or similar behavior. I think it would be interesting for us to be able to go deeper into this in the context of committee work so that we can see whether there are any elements that may be relevant to look at. There are some of the organisations that organise, the restaurants, who have brought in some kicks, which they have sent to a number of the rapporteurs, including myself, which I think we should try to discuss together and see if we can see, among other things. could look at it with cooperation between grant boards, municipalities and others, and see if anything can be done in relation to the concrete.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517172241	Thank you, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Josephine Fock for the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517172259	Thank you. We must now consider the draft parliamentary resolution on minor discrimination in nightlife, B 104. SF wants to take the necessary initiatives to prevent discrimination in nightlife. This is, of course, a very important area on which the alternative has also tabled a motion for a resolution, which unfortunately did not make progress in this Chamber. What is being proposed here is to amend the Restaurant Act so that the grant boards must place emphasis on the decisions of the Equal Treatment Board in relation to the handling of grant cases and the Racial Discrimination Act, and so that the employer becomes responsible for the actions of the employees when they are at work. It is also proposed that the level of compensation for night-time discrimination should be significantly increased. In the alternative, we agree with the SF in the view that employer responsibility, which applies elsewhere, should also apply in these situations. It is not the individual doorman that we see many times today who has to determine door policy. It is the discot owner, and that is why it is also the discot owner who has to answer for it. If citizens repeatedly experience being judged out because of skin color, religion, sexuality, disability or other factors, it can lead to a sense of disregard and alienation for the rest of society. The feeling of not belonging to us is that we are married to the individual citizen as well as to society as a whole, and so we have to take these experiences very, very seriously. These are the negative experiences and feelings that we know lead to crime, abuse and ultimately radicalisation. The alternative is that we need to do much more to combat discrimination in all areas, and that is why we ourselves have made the proposal to limit discrimination in nightlife. It was a proposal in which it was recommended that a package be included in the grant application, so to speak, where human rights were brought to the attention of the discotists, and in this way they were made further aware that they have a very special responsibility for letting people in. As I said, this proposal did not obtain a majority, but it should not prevent us from supporting this. We also agree that regulation combined with work on attitudes through campaigns can be a solution, and hopefully that combination will also be effective in the field of discrimination in nightlife. We therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517172525	Thank you to Mrs Josephine Fock. The next rapporteur is Mrs Zenia Stampe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517172533	Thank you for that and thank you for an important suggestion. We have a problem here. It's quite obvious. Sometimes one wonders about the double standards of politics: in some areas, when the rules do not work and work as intended, one will go very, very far in terms of tightening and tightening the rules, while here there is one area where it is quite clear that we have problems, but here one does not want to go further in tightening the rules because it is obviously not considered as equally important. We think this is an extremely important area. We can support the intention of the proposal and we can also support two of the concrete proposals. We can support it for increased compensation by discrimination, and we can also support the possibility of basing the decisions of the Equal Treatment Board on the decisions of the Grant Board. We are more doubtful about the employer's responsibility for the actions of employees, because, as others have said, this is a quite far-reaching step, especially if you look at individual cases. However, we believe that if you see that doormen are repeatedly discriminated against, it would be strange if it could not have some kind of consequence for the place, because then it must also be the place that either does not have the right guidelines or is not good enough to instruct the employees. That is why we also believe that somewhere else it should also have a consequence for the owner of a disco, a hostel or whatever we are talking about. Therefore, we would like to go to this proposal with an open mind and say yes to the two specific points and then perhaps not agree to the employer's responsibility, but see if we can go further by giving the grant board the opportunity to use these decisions of the Equal Opportunities Board. Perhaps we could go further there. I think that might actually be the right way to go. For us, it may not be so crucial that it is the individual case for which the employer must take responsibility, that is to say, that he or she, like the doorman, is fined. What is really important to us is if we can see that discrimination is systematically practised, because when it is systematic, it is somewhere also the responsibility of the employer. So if we can get to it through the proposal on the decisions of the Equal Treatment Board that the Grant Board can take them into account I think we can get very far. So radicals go to committee with the idea that we might meet each other or take part in something, because radicals think this is an incredibly important proposal. In any case, we have no doubt that more needs to be done than is being done today. This gives us really big problems as things stand today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517172843	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517172847	Thank you for the positive approach. If it can make a difference, and perhaps I hear a little from the rapporteur that it can happen, then we would very much like to split the resolution into two, because this issue of employer responsibility I have also been able to listen to others, as was a little crucial, and now this is the most important comment, because the rapporteur has explained it. However, we believe from the SF that, in line with the employer's responsibility, no alcohol is sold to minors, no accidents at work etc. etc., the general door policy, which is therefore not that there is a slipper, or that there is one that is rejected for very good reasons, but the general and systematic policy is also the responsibility of the employer. But there I hear the rapporteur say that if the grant boards can get this information from the Equal Treatment Board and use it, then you are also willing to look at some major sanctions against the employer.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517172950	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517172951	Exactly, and that is what we would like to discuss in committee, and that is what I think we can agree to be open to, where the other is perhaps a little too far-reaching.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517173000	That's all the questioner's got? Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. The next speaker is the draftsman of the motion for a resolution, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517173025	First of all, I would like to welcome the fact that I think I have heard a general support from the parties of the Folketing that we should address this problem. Then there are different assessments of how big it is, but I really think that both Mrs Josephine Fock and others have said it so well, so that if you feel discriminated against on the basis of your sexuality, race, belief, or whatever it may be, you are becoming both more and more exposed, but you also feel that you are on the edge of the community. But this is exactly what happens when young people are rejected, for example. in the queue to the discotheques, only on the basis of their appearance, belief, sexuality, or whatever it may be, and there we have good legislation, as has been said today, but we also have some very, very weak enforcement methods and sometimes excuse my language • some ridiculously low fines compared to other places. So what we have proposed by the SF is both that the catering law is amended, so that the grant boards can take into account the rulings of the Equal Opportunities Board in their assessments and that the Racial Discrimination Act is amended, so that the employer is also responsible for the door-to-door policy, and that the level of compensation is significantly increased, so that it will cost 25,000 DKK, that is to say, just as it is to discriminate on grounds of gender. From our side, we would like to help either to look at what can then be agreed in committee, or to split up the resolution. Because as I have been able to listen to some of those who have been somewhat critical of the motion for a resolution, it is this issue of employer responsibility which is the crux of the matter, but that there could be nothing to prevent the grant boards from receiving these rulings from the Equal Treatment Board. So I would like to thank you for the support, including from those parties that cannot support it in its present form. It may be that we can do something together anyway, which will have a concrete impact on ensuring that there is much less discrimination in nightlife than there is today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517173311	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517173330	The debate is open and I give the floor to the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517173358	Thank you very much. The motion for a resolution instructs the government to establish a whistleblower scheme for public employees before 1 January. The Whistleblower scheme shall be designed as an independent body, including: be able to receive anonymous reports from public servants wishing to draw attention to illegal management or serious maladministration. As part of the scheme, investigations must also be possible on the basis of the reports and, if the studies provide a basis for this, criticism must be made of the authorities. In addition, the proposal instructs the government to introduce a number of protection measures for whistleblowers. This concerns, among other things: to increase the protection of employment in the form of rules on shared burden of proof and increased compensation in cases of dismissal. The authors of the proposals have the background to the proposal, among other things. stated that democracy and openness are fundamental values in the public sector and that Denmark is better off than many other countries in terms of transparency and corruption. In the case of public servants who wish to reveal, for example: However, the authors of the proposals point out that the situation was supposed to be flawed. This is partly due to the fact that, according to the proposers, public servants are all too often left to raise cases in the press, which is inappropriate, both for the whistleblowers and the authorities. I agree with the proposers that we should safeguard the freedom of expression of public employees. It is essential for a well-functioning democracy that public servants share their knowledge in the public debate. It hangs, among other things. in conjunction with the involvement of public servants in raising the professional level. For example, public employees can provide information on the practical consequences of a given political decision or are likely to have. That is why I have recently called on all ministries, the National Association of Municipalities and the Danish Regions to contribute with a strengthened awareness effort on the freedom of expression of public employees. Efforts must ensure that public servants know the extent of their rights, so that they are confident that rights are also respected in practice. At the same time, I have called on the ministries, the National Association of Municipalities and the Danish Regions to ensure that the authorities in their areas consider whether it is appropriate to establish a whistleblower scheme. I have done so in the context of the follow-up to report No. 1553 of the Committee on the Freedom of expression and whistleblower schemes of public employees, which came in April last year. The Committee was established in 2013 by the then government. The Committee has held a Supreme Court judge as chairman and has also been widely composed with the participation of, inter alia: Professors from universities and representatives from the media and staff organisations. The Committee has had the task of assessing whether there is a need for enhanced information and advice, legislation on the freedom of expression of public employees, increased employment rights for public employees who have used their freedom of expression, and the establishment of a special board to ensure the freedom of expression of public employees. The Committee has also had to highlight the advantages and disadvantages of whistleblower schemes in the public administration and assess the need for such a scheme. A report was submitted last April, and I shall not go into it in detail, but will focus on those parts that are most relevant to the resolution. They are whistleblower schemes and shared burden of proof rules, they are burden of proof and increased remuneration. As regards whistleblower schemes, a unanimous committee considered that general legislation should not be implemented. The Committee emphasized that consideration should be given both to the establishment of such a system and to the establishment of such a system. As an argument in favour, among other things, that it can increase the basis for democratic debate and control, that it can help to raise the level of government services and that it can strengthen the credibility of the authorities. As an argument against the introduction of whistleblower schemes, it is argued, among other things, that it may result in fewer people calling attention to maladministration by name and that it may be difficult to assess the credibility of anonymous notifications. The Committee also points out that whistleblower schemes can create a poor working environment because employees are afraid of being hung up and that this may involve certain legal concerns with regard to persons who are examined on the basis of anonymous notifications. The Committee also considered that the need for whistleblower arrangements and their appropriateness vary from authority to authority, both in relation to the size of the authority, the type of tasks and the existing control structure. Against this background, the Committee recommended that consideration be given to the appropriateness of a whistleblower scheme within each authority and this recommendation by a unanimous committee has been listened to by the government. I would now like to turn to the committee's recommendations for increased employment protection, specifically the rules on shared burden of proof and increased compensation. The rules on shared burden of proof would roughly imply that the responsibility for proving whether an employee has been fired due to his legitimate statements may shift from the employee to the employer in a court case. The rules on increased compensation will mean that the employer will have to pay more indemnification to the employee who will be fired unjustly because of the legal expression. The committee did not agree on the need for new rules in this area, with six Members voting in favour, five votes against and six abstentions. The government has chosen to follow the recommendation of the five members who voted against from among them the chairman of the committee. They pointed out that the burden of proof in this type of legal proceedings is already divided in practice. The general rules thus imply that the burden of proof will change to the employer if there is reason to believe that an employee has been fired because of his legitimate statements. The government therefore sees no need to introduce new rules on the subject. Furthermore, the five members have pointed out that rules on increased compensation will not significantly lead public employees to make more use of their freedom of expression. This is due, among other things, to the fact that public employees are typically reluctant to comment on conditions within their workplace because they are afraid of creating a poor working environment or of having career consequences, for example. that they are frozen out. Rules on increased compensation will not change this fear. If I should briefly summarise the key points of my speech, the question of whistleblower schemes and increased right of employment protection has been carefully considered by a wide-ranging committee. The Government agrees with the Committee's unanimous recommendation that no general legislation on a whistleblower scheme should be introduced, but that the need to establish such a scheme should be considered in concrete terms within each authority. The Government agrees with the part of the committee which has recommended that no rules on shared burden of proof and increased remuneration should be introduced, since such rules cannot be assumed to encourage public employees to make greater use of their freedom of expression. That is why it is not surprising that the government cannot support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517174056	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. There are no requests for short remarks. The next speaker is Mrs Trine Bramsen as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517174117	With this proposal, the proposers want to establish a single whistleblower scheme for public employees. I should like to start by saying that we in the Social Democratic Party welcome whistleblower schemes. It is a good thing that more and more municipalities and public authorities are establishing them. It is crucial that you, as a public servant, be able to express yourself, not least if something is going on that should not happen. And there is a risk of that when you have such a large public sector with so many people employed. Precisely because it is at the heart of Social Democracy that a public servant experiences a broad framework for freedom of expression, in our reign we set up a committee to look at solutions to improve freedom of expression for public employees. Representatives of the trade union organizations, the legal profession and other relevant representatives took part in the Committee. Just a year ago, this committee presented a report on the freedom of expression of public employees and whistleblower schemes. This report does not, however, recommend the local implementation of solutions to ensure and strengthen freedom of expression, both in the form of local whistleblower schemes targeted at the institutions concerned, but also through enhanced cooperation and dialogue in the workplace. When it is less than a year ago that the committee made their recommendations, I think it is rather strange to reject those recommendations. In that case, we are watering down the whole idea that we call experts and representatives together to make recommendations, that is, if we in the Danish Parliament simply say that this was a mockery, so that they only had to do the committee work so that we could then go against their conclusions. I would also like to say that I am surprised that the alternative, which is the proposer here today, completely ignores the recommendation of a single committee, because they say clearly in the report that one whistleblower scheme ^ one size fits all is not the solution, and that is also why we cannot support the proposal here. This goes directly against the recommendation made in the report. Having said that, we would very much like to see a number of other committee recommendations taken seriously, for example, that local whistleblower schemes should be boosted, that authorities should be helped to set them up and that they should be followed up. Not least, it is absolutely crucial that we continue, of course, to have a strong focus on the fact that there is a good dialogue in the workplace, not least in the public sector, that employees know the rules of the game, for example. for participation in the public debate on their workplace. Not least, it is not a secret that social media provide a completely new framework and opportunities, and it is therefore of course crucial that local people have a good, healthy dialogue on what to do and what to do not as a public employee, but also, of course, that employers respect these very wide frameworks. With these words, I must say that we do not support the proposal as it stands here, but we would like to support the submission of a report, for example, calling on the Minister for Justice to follow up on how many places whistleblower schemes are being set up and, possibly, to draw up guidelines on how this can be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517174449	Thank you, and there is a brief comment from Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517174455	Thank you to the rapporteur, and thank you for the positive statement, at least in the end, in relation to a report which will encourage the government to follow up. Now the rapporteur is wondering why the alternative has put forward a proposal for a single entity, and that is because nothing has happened since the report came. Something has happened in the municipal area and, as far as I am aware, a single region has set up a whistleblower scheme. But nothing has happened at all in the state sphere; no institution has made whistleblower arrangements. It is in fact in order to speed up the process of putting forward the proposal, so I shall then hear the rapporteur: if it is a decision that it should be initiated at each institution and in each municipality and region, but that they adapt it locally, can the rapporteur support the proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517174551	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517174553	No, we won't. Because we simply do not believe in the fact that as long as we on the part of the Danish Parliament decide that there should now be cooperation and that now whistleblower arrangements must be introduced from the centre, then the climate of cooperation will probably start to be good everywhere. However, we believe in strengthening the public authorities in their works councils so that they can see the meaning of establishing whistleblower schemes locally where they consider it necessary. And we would like to support a follow-up to how many places these schemes have been put in place and to support making representations to the public organisations, including both the central government, the municipalities and also the regions that do not yet have a whistleblower system, so helping them to see that this is a good tool. But we don't believe in just getting in from the Folketing and slamming a whistleblower scheme over the heads of the companies, and then the climate of cooperation works well.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517174652	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517174656	But then I think it is important to clarify just what a whistleblower scheme is. Because a whistleblower system ensures that illegalities and gross maladministration are brought to the market. This has nothing to do with a good climate of cooperation. I am a little surprised that the rapporteur confuses the two things, because what I think the rapporteur is talking about is what we can call the general freedom of expression of the public employee, that is to say that the public employee can go out and say: I think there are no standards in this daycare institution, etc. I can admit that this could be about works councils. However, does the rapporteur not agree that it can only be in the interests of all of us that gross maladministration should be brought to light so that they can be corrected in time?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517174742	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517174744	The question we are discussing here today is, of course, whether these indications of errors and inappropriateness can only be made by means of a whistleblower system. In many places you have a good works council where employees are not afraid to point out if something inappropriate is going on; are not afraid to go to the boss if something inappropriate is going on. And the climate of cooperation should keep in mind that you have a whistleblower system, just as there must be a sense of security that when you report something via the whistleblower system, it will not end up in, for example, a firing. So all the things that are beyond the whistleblower scheme will also have to be included. We are happy to discuss this, but it is therefore something other than central to adopt that one whistleblower system should be established.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517174839	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next person to speak is Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517174853	Thank you. The motion for a resolution provides for the establishment of one whistleblower scheme for all public servants who should be able to address themselves anonymously to this body, which should then be able to look at things, i.e. if there is a request. I think it is a problem that the proposal proposes that we should take a central decision here on the part of the Danish Parliament to establish a single system applicable to all public employees throughout this country. If you consider how diverse the public sector is, how many professional groups there are, how many different systems work, quite well, and how many jobs there are in the public sector, then this will be a decision on a very, very far-reaching intervention taken from the centre. And I think you have to be very, very careful about that. We say no to the specific proposal that is here simply because it goes too far. But I think that is something that we should have a very serious discussion about in the Committee on Legal Affairs. Because we can see that in some places there are problems; that there are employees who are worried about public expression and may also have doubts about what to do with criticism. That is why I also recognise the best intentions behind this proposal for the whistleblower scheme. I just think that what has been put forward by the alternative is far too far-reaching in relation to the problems that exist. However, I recognise that there is a problem that we must, of course, look at, and we are happy to do so in the Committee on Legal Affairs. But we cannot support the proposal as it stands here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517175039	Thank you. And there is a brief comment from Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517175044	Thank you. The rapporteur is not impressed by the fact that the City of Copenhagen, which fortunately has introduced schemes, has to be said to have become the premier municipality, receives approx. five monthly reports, two thirds of which are assessed to be within the scope of the scheme?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517175100	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517175102	The public sector, as I mentioned in my speech, is very diverse. There may be good reasons for some places to have a whistleblower scheme that may be good reasons for other places not having it. I know that what would be completely wrong would be if we said from in here that now everyone should have it just because we thought it was the right thing to do. I think that in some places it can make sense. I don't know if Copenhagen is one of those places. I would like, together with the questioner, to look more at the examples from the City of Copenhagen to learn more about it, because I cannot deny that in some places it could be a fine idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517175134	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517175138	I do not think that the rapporteur disagrees with me that there are obviously mistakes. There will always be mistakes where we are dealing with people, and we are talking about gross maladministration, about allowing people to report it. I find it difficult to understand why the rapporteur will not help us from in here legislate about the creation of a whistleblower system. So I would like to open up the possibility that it may be locally adapted, but could the rapporteur support it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517175206	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517175208	What we could agree to, and what I think we should have a talk about in the Committee on Legal Affairs, is that we could make attempts in this area, i.e. learn more about it, look at some of the experiences we already have, for example. from the City of Copenhagen, which the questioner himself mentioned, has gone the way of volunteering, rather than forcing something through here in the Danish Parliament, where we may not quite know the consequences of what it could mean if we just make the decision centrally. But I can guarantee the questioner that this is a debate that we would very much like to enter into, because we recognise the issue, but I cannot give a hand in the fact that we are just going to go along with some national scheme in which everyone is covered.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517175245	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next speaker in line is Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517175257	Thank you. I should like to begin by saying that I am also speaking on behalf of the Conservative People's Party. It is the case with small parties that they may have difficulty in achieving all the chores here at Christiansborg, and that is the case with the Conservative People's Party today. This is not the first time that we in the Danish Parliament have dealt with the question of whistleblower schemes. It has been the subject of negotiations several times here in the Things. The last thing that has happened is that a committee was set up to look at the whole whistleblower scheme of government, S, SF and R. This happened in 2013. And it wasn't sir. Anyone who was put on the committee. There were 17 people, and I guess it was to feel people who had a special insight into the problem. I don't think I'm doing anything wrong by saying "with a Supreme Court judge at the head." Now the alternative is putting forward a proposal for a whistle-blower system which runs counter to what the committee achieved in the 450-page report that they presented. And I do not want to blame the alternative for that, because it is, as in the rules of democracy, that one should be allowed to express one's views here in the Folketing. I have to say, however, that it will probably take convincing reasoning in Things if we want a majority in this area, while at the same time we want to deal with the essential points of a unanimous Commission opinion. And I do not think that is a convincing argument. The report is quite comprehensive and deals with many different issues. In this respect, it should be remembered that the legal situation today in relation to the freedom of expression of public employees is actually quite clear, namely that public servants, like all of us, have freedom of expression, according to the principles of Paragraph 77 of the Constitution. That freedom of expression also means that the employer, in the form of the public service, cannot intimidate the public employee to refrain from commenting. The civil servant is already entitled to do so today, with certain modifications, of course. One can, of course, have such a high position in the public sector that it may seem quite misleading if, for example, a head of department begins to discuss his personal considerations about a particular proposal that he himself is working on. But with these comments, I have to say that the starting point is that there is freedom of expression for public servants, and that is also what the Commission has done, as I have said. It was unanimously advised against the creation of a proper board. I now use the term 'jury', but I can see from the motion for a resolution that the term 'independent body' is used. I do not really know whether we can get closer to it than a proper board, but it is therefore not recommended by this committee that has been set up. In addition, there is the issue of legislation on the freedom of expression of employees and the right of communication, and here too there is a large majority recommending that no legislation be made in this area. In the case of a whistle-blower scheme, it should also be borne in mind that there is therefore an obligation, and that is what the Commission lays down for it. There is the risk of harassment against the person who is now anonymously declared to the whistleblower scheme. There is the fact that this board has only limited scope for investigation. Can you interrogate witnesses for such a board? It may be possible to do so, but at least it will not be under the obligation of professional secrecy as long as there is no judge chairing it. And in any case, there is a risk that some may be hanged out and also wrongly hung out. And if you complain anonymously, can you be sure that anonymity also lasts in the longer term? The authors also deal with the rules on the burden of proof. Conversely, the burden of proof is therefore something that we must be careful to introduce, because it presupposes, as if we have a responsibility unless we can prove the opposite. And I would say that, as the rules work today, they provide quite excellent protection if there is unjustified dismissal. Last but not least, I have to say that the Left, which cannot support the proposal here, can easily support the fact that each body in the public sector is allowed to establish its own whistleblower system itself. I think that in many situations there may be good reasons for this, and I note that the Minister for Justice has suggested that it should be considered around the public sector, and I can also hear that this has happened in the City of Copenhagen, even probably with some success. But as the proposal stands, the Left cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517175819	There is a brief comment from Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517175824	Thank you to the rapporteur. After all, this is not about a departmental manager being able to make his or her personal observations. I think the rapporteur on the Left is fully in favour of this. The rapporteur is usually very keen on what is involved. After all, we must be able to draw attention to errors, unlawfulness and gross negligence. I think that the rapporteur must also have an interest in this sort of thing coming out. I think we all have an interest in this kind of thing coming out. Unfortunately, we have seen a number of cases where people have to go to the media. So I am not talking about the general freedom of expression, as I would call it, when a public servant goes out and complains about his workplace or says that there are too few norms. I am talking about a whistleblower scheme which allows serious maladministration to be indicated. I find it infinitely difficult to see why the rapporteur cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517175920	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517175921	It may be, and the authors of the motion for a resolution must apologize, difficult to put forward all the arguments with the relatively short speaking time available here. However, I have mentioned the risk of harassment, and I have mentioned the fact that the board that has to decide cannot question people and thus may not be given a complete basis for dealing with a possible whistleblower complaint. In general, there is a risk that the person concerned will not have the legal position that he should actually have. However, as I said, it is not easy for the short speaking time to explain in detail all the arguments about why the whistleblower system and legislation in this respect are not what we should be aiming for. In conclusion, I would like to say that a report of 500 pages has been drawn up. I think you should read it, because then you can see the argument. I was then able to hear earlier this day, when we dealt with the issue of the Freedom of Freedom Commission, that there was agreement at least on the part of the Alternative that it was a very good idea. Now we have a Commission report here, and then we have to make the effort to read the arguments in it when we have had experts to look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517180041	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517180044	Good word again. I would say that one of the reasons why we recommend it is that it is a central body. I would like to open up completely to the fact that it may be at local level that it is decided. However, it is in fact the legal certainty that the rapporteur mentions that we have also proposed that it should be a central body. That is precisely because the central body must have the power to examine whether the complaint which then arises is justified. After all, it is not up to the individual civil servants to know in advance. Each public servant has to say: here is something that seems as if it is not okay. I think the rapporteurs agree with me that there must be legal certainty.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517180124	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517180125	In any case, legal certainty is very much at stake here. But it is also our concern that the public sector is an enterprise with many different bodies, which carries out many different authorities and which has many different types of tasks. That is why it is the right thing for each body to decide for itself, just as for example with the City of Copenhagen and 200 others, if you want a real whistleblower scheme to be established.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517180200	Thank you. The next question is Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517180205	Thank you. That's right. After all, there has been a report on many sides which also has an incredibly educational front page. There is also a clear description of how a minority in the committee recommends that we take legislative steps. Then we have also tried to compare with some countries with which we often compare ourselves, i.e. some of our neighbours, Canada, the United States and so on. There have been new rules, for example. in Norway, since 2007 there have been rules for public authorities to draw up guidelines on how civil servants can report illegalities, etc. An evaluation of the Norwegian rules in 2014 concludes, inter alia, that Norwegian workers to a greater extent than workers in other countries give notice of matters that they consider to be worthy of criticism and to a lesser extent subject to sanctions as a result, but that almost half of Norwegian workers still do not give notice of matters that they consider to be critical or serious. So there's still some way to go. But Norway is judged to have better conditions than the other Scandinavian countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517180310	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517180312	I can only take note of that. I do not doubt the example or the quote that the questioner makes. But all the more so, I am surprised that a unanimous committee has dissuaded the creation of a proper board and that 14 out of 17 members of the committee do not want any legislation in this area either. As I said, I am not going to comment on the Norwegian rules, but I can guarantee that the committee has at least had those rules in mind. Otherwise they wouldn't have described them either. And yet the committee reaches such a clear conclusion as is the case. So I'm gonna stick to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517180355	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517180357	That's right. However, I do not think it is as clear as the rapporteur is proposing. After all, the committee also describes in its report that a not insignificant number of public servants refrain from expressing themselves because of the risk of negative management reactions, as it says, and that the committee's investigations have also shown that the situation in this area has not improved since 2006, despite the initiatives that have been taken. So at least the committee recognises that there is a problem which does not necessarily have anything to do with the fact that the law is not good enough, but that too much informal sanctions are still involved in shouting out. And that is also what I hear when the alternative proposes that we should ensure that it does not become an obstacle.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517180444	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517180445	That's right. After all, the committee weighs for and against, and now the questioner mentioned the facts that advocated from the committee's report. I have tried to mention the points that speak against, but we can almost make that happen all night long. Instead, we have to conclude that the conclusions of the committee are quite clear and understandable. I shall not repeat them for the third time here. But let me conclude by saying that it is not the case that we in the Left are against whistleblower schemes in general. We just think that this is something that needs to be decided at the individual workplace.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517180517	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next speaker in line is Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517180525	Thank you. The Enhedslisten supports this proposal and we support the creation of a whistleblower scheme for public employees. This is something that has been very close to our hearts for quite a number of years, it is also something we have been proposing in the past, and under the former VK government in the 2009-2010 period we even put forward a proposal together with the Social Democrats, the Radicals and the SF. Similarly, we tried to obtain a majority in favour of setting up such a whistle-blower system and a committee under the former government, where unfortunately there was the situation that the potential majority, which was actually at that time, was not used. It is sad, of course, and it does mean that it is still extremely relevant to discuss the proposal today. That is why I would also like to congratulate the alternative for having put forward the proposal so that we can jointly fight for it, and this will unfortunately be necessary, since there is no majority here today. So that fight doesn't stop with the debate here. I think it is important to emphasise that it is absolutely essential to set up an independent body so that it will be possible for public servants to report on illegalities and major problems that they find in their work, as has also been said, among others. Mrs Josephine Fock here in the debate has exactly the advantage that it also makes it possible to bring out an illegal act without going out into the press in a situation where your boss ignores the problems if you turn to the boss or if it is the case that the boss is actually responsible for the illegal activity. So basically, I have to say that I am very puzzled by the scepticism that comes from many places, because this should really benefit everyone, and it is a body which, if set up, will be able to ensure structured handling of illegal practices so that they do not become scandals in the public domain, but thus become something that can be tackled positively and tackled. So I think this is an important point and I would stress that I hope that the parties that reject the proposal today will go home and think about it a little. Because we see this as a situation where, unfortunately, one scandal after another comes and where it could have been dealt with in a far, far better way. We also see, unfortunately, the fact that public servants are being chased when they go out with illegal acts that they are witnessing. That is why, of course, it is also important to have the element of this proposal that employees should be protected against dismissal if they use the agency, because unfortunately we see cases where the messenger is being hunted rather than the problem. As a member of the Defence Committee, I have been following a number of these cases in this area recently; we have seen it with the Green Desert case, where the whistleblower, Mr. Anders Kærgaard, of course, is the one who has been chased rather than the problem of mistreatment of innocent civilian Iraqis, who have still not been allowed to get a trial because the Secretary of Defense maintains the obsolescence. Likewise, we have seen this very recently, when it was the Chief of Defense who was threatening his employees with firing if they were using their freedom of expression. It is just the two examples from a small part of the public sector that I, as a member of the Defence Committee, know about, which show the need for there to be a place where we, as a public servant, can go and tell about illegal activities, so that we can ensure that it is handled properly and that, as a society, we also ensure that we can have a continuous development and avoid the violent scandals that we are unfortunately seeing today, because for some it will be the only way of getting the illegals out of the public eye when it becomes impossible to go to the boss, who will not take them seriously, and when it is impossible to go to a whistle-blower body, which unfortunately there is no majority in the Folketing to set up. So on the part of the Enhedslisten, we can say clearly that we support this proposal. It's something we've been fighting for for a long time. We are pleased that the alternative raises the debate with the proposal today, and we will cooperate with all the good forces who want to set up this arrangement, both here in the Assembly Chamber and, above all, with the public employees' organisations, which we often see as being called for. So thank you to Mrs Josephine Fock and the alternative for putting forward the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517181031	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517181038	First of all, I would like to say that I have not actually heard a single party that has been on the platform so far, denying that there must be whistleblower schemes and that having whistleblower schemes can be a good solution. Just to get it ready. However, I would like to ask the rapporteur a question. The report, which came last year, in which the trade unions of public organisations were part of the group that has been working on it, rejects the fact that one central whistleblower system is a good solution. It says directly in the report that one size fits all is not the best way to establish a whistleblower system and that it is not central to deciding what this whistleblower system looks like. What is the rapporteur's position on these two issues, i.e. that one whistleblower system cannot be set up that will work in relation to everyone, and that one cannot from a central point of view push a model down on those organisations either?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517181147	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517181149	But I think it is a discussion that is worth taking. I can see some advantages in a central board. It will, like, provide clear guidelines for all and will ensure that it may not be so easy to find the individual employee. But it may also be that there has to be a model where you divide it. If the Socialists are positive about this, I would suggest that we continue to work on it. On behalf of the Enhedslisten, I have in the past specifically proposed that a whistleblower scheme should be set up in the field of defence. It was under the previous government that it had rejected a proposal for a comprehensive whistleblower scheme for the public sector and, of course, we saw these scandals coming forward in the field of defence policy. So if it is the case that the Socialists are prepared to cooperate on split whistleblower schemes, we welcome it from the Enhedslisten side.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517181254	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517181256	Well, that's not really my question. My question to Enhedslisten was: Since we have asked a committee of experts to assess the need for the whistleblower scheme and, overall, they reject this solution, which we are discussing today, as a good idea, how can Enhedslisten think that it is still a good idea? Are all these professional organizations and experts simply not right? Should we just ignore the fact that they have made their position known in this report? Does it really matter when we choose to involve professional organisations and others who actually sit and work with this every day? Should we just overlook their recommendations, which are, after all, being put forward with the proposal here?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517181334	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517181337	Thank you for that to the questioner. It has to be said that the situation is, of course, that the Enhedslisten and the Social Democrats, together with other parties, have previously stood together in this Chamber and argued for the creation of a whistle-blower system. Unfortunately, the potential majority was not used during the last government. I do not think it is so clear in what we have seen that it makes no sense to have a whistleblower scheme, and among other things. There is, of course, the possibility of separate bodies being opened up, and I think that is what I would call on the Socialists to consider if we are not going to work further on.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517181416	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next person to be allowed to take the stand is Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517181426	First of all, I would like to thank the alternative for putting the debate on a whistleblower scheme for public servants on today's agenda. We in the Liberal Alliance think this is an important matter. After all, it is important that there is a possibility that cases that would not otherwise come to the surface can come to light, and we can ensure that there is a safe way for public servants who would like to talk about things that are not right without putting their position at risk. This is, in fact, something we know from a number of large private companies, and I think that is something we can be inspired by in the public sector. In the Liberal Alliance, we are in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by the Alternative, with one exception, and this is the last of the sticks to deal with the protection of employment law, which involves a kind of reversal of the burden of proof in the event of dismissal. We are not so much in favour of this in the Liberal Alliance, but with that exception we really think it is a very good proposal. Some people have then spoken about the fact that we have set up a Commission work, and this Commission has then recommended something other than what the alternative here brings. That is, of course, true, but fortunately it is not the way Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen feared a few debates ago that just because there is a commission with a recommendation, the parties are bound by the fact that this is the way the Commission arrives. We still think it is important to do something for the freedom of expression of public employees and to do something to ensure that public employees reveal if there are things in the public sector that are not right. That is why we support the proposal here, despite the recommendation of the Commission, and we also advocated a public law which was transparent, even though the Commission could not get together to propose something proper there either. So it's not always that you have to listen to the commissions sometimes they're good, sometimes they're less good, and here was the alternative better.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517181706	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517181710	I would very much like to thank the Liberal Alliance and Simon Emil Ammitzbøll for their positive expression. Can the rapporteur clarify the concerns regarding the additional protection of employment that we have proposed?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517181727	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517181729	This is something that sometimes comes up in the debate. It is not the first time it has been up. We just don't like this reversal of the burden of proof because we think it puts the employer in too poor a situation in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517181750	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517181752	Thank you for your answer. I mean, we are willing to look at it in committee. That is also why I asked about it in relation to, as well as getting a further explanation, but thank you to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517181806	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517181808	I have to sign that there seems to be a chance to find common ground in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517181815	The next question is Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517181817	After all, the rapporteur himself does not mention the work of the Commission, but the work of the Committee of Experts, which is the basis of this 500-page report, which I am sure the rapporteur has read from one end to the next. That is why I would like to hear from the rapporteur why it is the Liberal Alliance, which is not normally too centralised, that supports a proposal that would centralise such a system, although it is actually recommended that whistleblower schemes be introduced in a decentralised manner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517181851	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517181853	I think it is 486 pages if we are finally going to count it up, but I would also say that the important thing for us is that there will be proper control of those in power. After all, it is also those who are leading the public sector or those who are doing something wrong in the public sector. And that control can be strengthened by doing so via a central body. We have never had any wish to have to control either the rulers or the system in such a way as to water down the actual control task, and that is why we think this is a very good proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517181935	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517181937	Well, that is an interesting point of view, which certainly puts the seeds of many other interesting debates, because what can we not also centralize in relation to management in municipalities, regions and other state institutions for that matter? However, I would like to ask the Liberal Alliance about the financing of this, because it is clear that there are also some costs involved. Is the Liberal Alliance willing to finance such a central whistleblower scheme?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517182004	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517182007	Well, that's self-evident. We could not vote in favour of the resolution if we were not prepared to finance it. Fortunately, however, we have now learned from the current government that agreements can be made which are expected to be financed by the Finance Law Parties later, as we saw both with the housing job scheme and with the benefit agreement, which among other things. is made with Mrs Trine Bramsen's party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517182026	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Zenia Stampe as rapporteur for the Radical Left. The rapporteur is jumping. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517182047	Thank you. I would also have liked to say that my party, which has now crystallized in several parties, can obviously form a common front with them on this point. That said, I thought I was coming for the alternative, where we have good old party friends sitting today, just like we do in the Liberal Alliance. I would like to tell you here from the platform that we support such a whistleblower scheme. This is something we've been working for for years. We did not get through with it in the government in which we participated; there was no support for that. However, we believe that it is important for employees to go further if they gain knowledge of illegal activities. And we just have to note that today it has very high costs or at least it can have very high costs for the individual, as we have several cases that have shown. But it can also have very high costs for the individual institution or authority, which, instead of being looked at in the cards of such a board, is looked at in the maps of the press. There is nothing wrong with the press doing that, but in many ways I think it would be more beneficial for everyone if some of these mistakes were discovered in time and arranged in other ways than by an entire authority, an entire public organisation having to be pulled through the press with a result which may well be less trust and so on. to the authorities. So in this way I think that this proposal is something which not only supports the whistleblower's interest but is also in the interest of the public institutions; not only to avoid cheating and unlawfulness, but also because, where it actually occurs, we believe that this is a more gentle way of coming forward. We have the same reservations as the Liberal Alliance in relation to the reversal of the burden of proof, so we would also like to have a discussion on this in committee. Then, of course, we have also thought about the funding. I do not quite know what we usually do with these motions for resolutions in relation to funding. Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll like that. It is clear that if it gets through, we will also be responsible for finding funding. We are completely prepared to do so, but I cannot say here from the platform where that funding will come from. But there is no doubt that it is at least a responsibility that will follow if it is voted through, which does not seem to be the case. Then, of course, we also need to look at the implementation date on 1 January 2017 is probably not entirely realistic. In relation to the concrete form, what is stated is of course sensible, and we can support that. We ourselves have had a reflection on whether such an authority or such a function could be placed under the authority of the Ombudsman. It is not entirely parallel, but there are still some parts that are somewhat similar to the work of the Ombudsman, and that would certainly create a credibility and quality of work that we also think is very important in these cases. Because there is no doubt that it is not a good idea that one can be notified to such a board, and therefore it is also very important that the work carried out on such a board has a proper quality. So we would like to discuss the details, but what is in the proposal we can support, though with reservations and reservations about this reversal of the burden of proof.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517182411	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517182414	It is quite true that the Radicals were one of the co-authors of the mandate which issued their report less than a year ago. And a single committee of experts did not, of course, recommend the model proposed by the resolution here; a single committee of experts says that one whistleblower scheme cannot be set up, but that it is necessary to create whistleblower schemes appropriate to the authorities and organisations involved. Has the Radicals taken any thought about this going against what the Radicals themselves have asked a committee of experts to recommend and for which the Committee of Experts made recommendations less than a year ago?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517182500	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517182502	We listen to experts, but we do not necessarily correct them, because, as the alternative rapporteur also explained from the platform, we must note that little has happened. How many people do these whistleblower schemes really have? I think it's five municipalities in total, and it doesn't seem like there's a lot going on. So that is also the conclusion of a debate which is apparently stranded with this Commission report, after which little else has happened. But we are not afraid of a central system either. On the contrary, I believe that it can just ensure that we get this body, we get this opportunity for whistleblowers within a few years, whereas if you have to make local whistleblower schemes everywhere in the public sector, it will take a very long time. And if everyone had to develop their model, it is also something that not only has a long time horizon, but also is going to take incredibly many hours to develop. We think this is a waste of time and a waste of energy. We think it is a good idea to have a central system which can then perhaps also have an even higher quality and even higher professionalism, because you have a proper, large working basis, so that you can also do something that is professionally sustainable.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517182620	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517182623	Once again, I must remind you that I have not heard any parties in here saying that they are against whistleblower schemes. On the contrary, I have heard all the parties in this debate support whistleblower arrangements, so what we are discussing here is how it can be done. I was not quite sure why it is that the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party have decided to support that particular model. There are many models you can suggest where you implement whistleblower models from a central point of view. This is precisely the proposal that goes against the recommendation in the report.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517182700	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517182702	Because instead of proposing local whistleblower schemes, I have to understand, but not so much is happening right now. It is not because, as I said, there are a lot of new whistleblower schemes on the way. And then I have to ask the other way round: now it is so little unfair, because I think the questioner has had his two questions in relation to the fact that it is a very, very easy way to reject such a proposal, so that it should be a different model. On the other hand, I could ask the Socialists: why have the Socialists not done more to create local whistleblower schemes everywhere? What is this passivity, and what does it reveal? It may actually reveal that you are not so concerned about it. We're preoccupied with it, and then we're open to discussing the model. That is what I have said to the alternative rapporteur here from the platform. We would like to discuss the model, but we think it is important that something should happen, because right now it seems as if that Commission report was really just kicking a very important discussion to the corner, after which nothing has happened.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517182756	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen as rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517182806	Thank you. From the SF we think this is a very good proposal. In fact, in the proposal for increased legal certainty that I presented on behalf of the SF in January, it was our very first proposal. It wasn't as specific as this proposal, but still. So now I will read out what we have written because it fits quite well with what the alternative is proposing: the Committee on the Freedom of expression of public employees and whistleblower schemes describes in their report that a not insignificant number of public employees refrain from expressing themselves because of the risk of negative management reactions. The Committee's investigations have shown that the situation in this area has not improved since 2006, despite the initiatives taken as a follow-up to the 2006 report by the Committee set up on the freedom of expression and communication of public employees. In addition, those members of the Committee who recommend the introduction of special employment rules have stressed that the Committee's investigations support the fact that public employees largely fear negative management reactions by expressing a critical opinion in the public on matters relating to their field of activity. Special recruitment regulations could have a beneficial preventive effect in relation to negative management reactions. In addition, increased protection of employment rights could send out a political signal of support for the exercise of freedom of expression by public employees in practice, which could in itself promote the use of their freedom of expression by public employees. The Institute of Human Rights recommends a significant strengthening of the freedom of expression of public employees and points out that the case law of the European Court of Human Rights is developing towards both increased protection of the freedom of expression of public employees and employee communication. For example, in cases relating to the freedom of expression of public employees, it may be possible to provide for a reduction in compensation for unjustified dismissals, etc., to regulate the burden of shared evidence in cases relating to the freedom of expression of public employees, and to consider in each authority whether it is appropriate to establish special access to reporting of suspicions of illegality, etc. through the establishment of a whistleblower scheme within the Authority. So it is like the framework of it, and I can easily see that the model proposed by the Alternative, as Mrs Josephine Fock described, could be a way to go. I would also like to say that I do not support Mrs Trine Bramsen's approach to this, because I do not think that we are going anywhere, if we are only criticising the fact that there are models on the track, that one might well imagine that one had a whistleblower scheme for municipal employees, etc., but that there are some very specific situations where one might have to have a special whistleblower scheme where it is extra sensitive. It can, for example, be done. be for people employed in the intelligence service, where one can say that it may not be exactly the same kind of body that municipal employees work in. I don't know. It's just a thought. I do not think we should have very many different types, but it may be that it would make sense to say that there are some specially selected areas where it might be appropriate to have a special whistleblower scheme. But we are very much in agreement and positive about the intention, and I do not think anything will really happen if we do not get some work going. So it may be that we can go even further in committee, also with some of those who do not support the resolution today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517183137	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517183156	Thank you. I would like to begin by thanking the Enhedslisten, the Liberal Alliance, the Radical Left and the SF for supporting the intentions of the proposal, and then I will come back to the specific comments made by the parties concerned. We have made this proposal because we believe that whistleblowers are an important feature of modern democracy. This is true both in less serious cases and in very large cases. In fact, in the alternative, we consider whistleblowers to be not only desirable, but to be a democratic necessity for our society. If I may mention a few of the great examples, we have Edward Snowden, who proved to the whole world how the American surveillance programmes were monitoring illegally to an extent that none of us had the imagination to imagine. Then we have seen it with the Danish intelligence officer, Anders Kærgaard, who, after a long struggle to deal with the matter internally, chose to go to the press with his knowledge that Danish forces were watching detained Iraqis being abused by Iraqi forces without being able to intervene. Most recently we have seen it with Luxleaks, where the former employee of PriceWaterhouseCoopers, Antoine Deltour, revealed the extent of the extensive tax evasion in Luxembourg. These are all matters which have a considerable interest in the public and in the view of the alternative also for democracy. We therefore believe that whistleblowers should be recognised for the important efforts they make for democracy and that they should be offered orderly conditions to report their knowledge. This applies, whether it is a major political illegality such as those I have just mentioned, they reveal, or whether it is in a more common everyday context. Of course, if this is illegal or to the detriment of the principles of the administration, we must be able to draw attention to it so that we can rectify it. Here comes the second important point of our motion for a resolution: as I said, it is by no means just about the big issues. On the contrary, it is very much about the problems of everyday life. It is a question of employees who suspect or know of criminal offences and other serious conditions at their place of work being able to allow a professional body to handle the matter. And there is certainly a demand for such a body. The City of Copenhagen is among those who take the lead in this question. Here you have established your own whistleblower scheme with the Citizens' Advisor, who is called the Ombudsman on a daily basis. During the last 31⁄2 years of operation of the scheme, it has received more than five monthly reports, two thirds of which have been assessed to be within the scope of the scheme. And most importantly, it can be said, it is that in almost half of the cases the Citizen's Adviser confirmed that the reported information was either wholly or partly correct. Note the figures they are really large, and this shows that there is a need to set up such schemes. It is important for me to stress that we are not talking about matters where the colleague uses the copier for a private purpose. We are talking about offences or other serious negligence, whether intentionally or unconsciously. The main thing is that we need to detect errors and that we need to be able to correct them. And the experience in the City of Copenhagen shows just a need to go somewhere if you discover mistakes. But the real problem is in fact all the examples that I cannot give here on the platform. I am talking about cases where illegal or gross negligence has been committed in the administration, but which we never hear about because no one is standing up and drawing attention to them. There may be many reasons why you, as a public servant, are not standing up, anonymously or not, but one thing that is clear to me is that it should never be a lack of places to go to blow the whistle, which is why public employees do not get their knowledge reported. We therefore believe, in the alternative, that it is the task of the State to ensure that the necessary opportunities are available. In other words, it is the state that is to facilitate the whistleblower. It's not the whistleblower who's supposed to facilitate the state. And one way to ensure that public employees have the opportunity to blow the whistle is to create a whistleblower scheme to which all public employees can turn. That is what we are proposing with this motion for a resolution. We should therefore ensure as soon as possible that public servants who are aware of any unlawfulness, maladministration or maladministration of a certain degree of seriousness can properly report it. It also means that they need not fear for their careers or, as we have seen in the most serious cases, fear to be exposed to a personal hetz. And that requires trustworthy, professional and anonymous access to report on these cases. That is the real reason why we have proposed one central system. I shall then hear the comments that are made in relation, for example, to the question of whether we are going to be able to do something about it. could create several schemes, one for the municipalities, one for the regions and one for the state, or in some other way divide it up, and we are completely open to that. The reason why we have proposed one body and we have also had thoughts about whether that body should be under the authority of the Ombudsman, as the Radical Left mentioned, is precisely that we want to ensure that there is proper professionalism about it. For it is of course important that there is legal certainty, both for the person reporting it, but also very much for the person who may be reported for having made a mistake. It is really crucial for us that there is a professional, sound security in a whistleblower system. We see a wide range of advantages in creating a whistleblower system. Firstly, it will mean that whistleblowers need not fear personal or career consequences because cases are handled confidentially or anonymously and as far as possible within the organisation. With regard to the comments made here from the platform on the consequences of employment law, I can say that we have taken it with us because a united trade union movement, it can be said, both LO, FTF and AC, wants such a right of employment security. Those who are needed think so. But the alternative is certainly willing to discuss how and how such a system should be combined in relation to the consequences of employment law. Secondly, a whistleblower system will ensure that we take the whistleblower out of the equation, if you may say so. We maintain the focus on the content of the case rather than on the person. In other words, we ensure that you always go for the ball, the case, instead of the man. Thirdly, it will strengthen the credibility of the authorities on the outside that there is a body that independently and impartially deals with reports of unlawfulness and serious maladministration, rather than that a case is never allowed to see the light of day or that it ends up in the press. There is a risk that an entire authority will soon be taken to account for perhaps the wrong actions of a single employee, which I assume none of us in this Chamber considers appropriate. Then it has been said several times during the debate that in report 1553 on the freedom of expression of public employees and whistleblower schemes it is not recommended to introduce compulsory whistleblower schemes in all authorities. Instead, the committee behind the report recommends that all authorities be invited to consider whether it is appropriate to introduce a system for themselves. And recently, the Minister of Justice has issued a shepherd letter following the report to all ministries, KL and Danske Regions. Here, the recipients of the letter are asked to draw their respective organisations' attention to the recommendation that consideration should be given to the need to establish a whistleblower scheme within each organisation. I am, of course, pleased that the Minister has taken the initiative in this regard, and I would like to acknowledge that. At the same time, however, I must acknowledge that this is not enough for the alternative. There are two problems. Firstly, a year has now passed since the report was published, and that should have been more than enough time for the various authorities to consider whether to introduce a whistleblower system. Nevertheless, few municipalities and regions have started to follow up the call. Thus we could all read in Politiken on Sunday that not a single ministry or their underlying agencies has introduced a whistleblower scheme. Nor does it appear that there are any arrangements under way. In any case, according to the article in Politiken, the Danish Data Protection Agency, which has to approve all whistleblower schemes, states that no agencies or ministries have applied to establish a whistleblower scheme. Secondly, there is the problem that, although in the future we may see some ministries and government departments and other public authorities in municipalities and regions setting up whistleblower schemes, there will in all likelihood still be a number of authorities which do not. This is a problem, for who should say whether there has been any illegal activity in a particular authority? In particular in the more heavy authorities such as the defence, the Ministry of Justice and the like, it is necessary that employees have a place to go if they become aware of unlawful or gross negligence. Whether it should be a central board in line with what we are proposing or whether it should be a local board, we are, as I said, fully willing to discuss. But I think it is really important that we get started now. That is also why we have tabled the proposal on whistleblower schemes. As I said, I am very pleased with the comments made by the Enhedslisten, the Liberal Alliance, the Radical Left and the SF that you are backing up. And I am quite willing to look at the problems that you have each mentioned in a future committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517184152	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517184214	The debate is open and I give the floor to the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517184234	The motion for a resolution instructs the government to take the necessary initiatives to follow the proposal's 16 recommendations on data security in total. The recommendations are the same as those made by the Committee on Legal Affairs in the January 2015 report on data security. We in the government have dealt with the report in the reply of the Ministry of Justice of 14 January this year to the Legal Affairs Committee's question No. 147. Let me start by stating that data protection is an area that both the government and the Committee on Legal Affairs take very seriously and want to give priority to it. The SE and Hør case in spring 2014 and the case of the hacker attack in 2012 on the CSC and the National Police are two sad examples of the fact that our information was not well taken care of. For me, as Minister of Justice, it is crucial that we do everything we can to avoid cases such as these. That is also why the government is on the way with a number of initiatives in the area of data protection, and it is worth noting initiatives that will take into account the recommendations and underlying concerns of the resolution. There is a good reason why we should come up with these initiatives in the area of data protection. Private companies and public authorities are increasingly processing information about citizens, a trend that only grows in line with the increase in digitalisation in society. Denmark is a digital pioneer country, and we must remain so, but as citizens we must be able to rely on our personal data to be processed safely and legally. This is true both when we leave our personal data to companies and authorities and when they collect them themselves. That is why, as I said, a number of initiatives have been taken in the area of data protection. Following the SE and HØR case, the former government set up an inter-ministerial working group to map the protection of information on citizens' electronic payments, etc. Before the summer holidays, the working group will make a number of recommendations which I look forward to receiving. The survey will be the starting point for a broad political discussion on data security, to which I look forward very much. In the light of these political discussions, the Government will draw up an overall strategy to ensure the personal data of the Danes. In addition, as you know, the EU's new General Data Protection Regulation was adopted last month and the Regulation will apply from 25 May 2018. We in Denmark have actively contributed to the negotiations, and my officials have continuously had contact with many different actors in the field in order to get the flag the special Danish interests in the best possible way. Overall, the government is satisfied with the outcome of the negotiations, although it is difficult to balance the specific interests of 28 countries. A subject which is often highlighted in relation to the future regulation has been the question of the amount of fines. The subject has also received considerable attention from the Danish side. There is no doubt that with the significant fines in the future regulation, there will be increased focus on compliance with rules and data protection as such. It will require very thorough preparatory work to translate the Data Protection Regulation into a Danish context, and I have therefore asked the officials to launch a comprehensive in-service project work on the new data protection regulation. We have posted a project description on the Ministry of Justice's website about the work. In the first quarter of 2017, the work will lead to a publication of analyses, recommendations and draft legislative adjustments resulting from the regulation. In the forthcoming analysis, the recommendations made by the Committee on Legal Affairs in January 2015 will also be included. In connection with the work there are many questions that need to be answered: What should happen to the Personal Data Act? What will happen to special legislation? What is involved in the role of data protection officer etc. etc? Subsequently, the legislative proposals required by the Data Protection Regulation will be submitted to the Danish Parliament in autumn 2017. I would like to emphasise that we want all stakeholders in this area to be involved in the work. We would also like to inform the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights of the progress of work on the regulation on a regular basis during the forthcoming political discussions. I therefore look forward to the forthcoming political discussions and hope that everyone will take constructively the initiatives mentioned. In conclusion, may I highlight the good work done by the Data Protection Agency. This is a major and difficult task that supervision promises. That is why I decided earlier this year that, in cooperation with the Data Protection Agency, we should look at the current tasks and resources of the supervisory authority in order to add more money to the Data Protection Agency. As a result, the government is planning to strengthen the Data Protection Agency by approx. 2 million kr. Annually from 2017 onwards, which corresponds to an increase in appropriations of approx. 10% In addition, the question of supervisory resources will be considered on an ongoing basis in the context of the work on the Data Protection Regulation. In the light of the initiatives mentioned and thus already planned, the government cannot therefore support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517184728	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517184733	Thank you for what I would actually call a friendly reception, although the Minister says that the government will not vote in favour of the proposal. I understand that there must be an analysis and that the conclusions contained in the report, which a unanimous Legal Affairs Committee was behind last year, will be included in that work. However, if I think it is important to have this motion for a resolution, it is because the Minister has also been asked to comment on the report submitted by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. This has happened in the question which has been raised. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13). On the basis of this, there is not quite an answer to what is being asked, namely what the Minister's comment is on the various recommendations. I can, for example. not see that that reply includes the Government's position on an IT Havari Commission. So is it correct to understand that the answer given so far to the Committee on Legal Affairs has not answered and commented on all the proposals contained in the report which a unanimous Legal Affairs Committee was behind last year?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517184846	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517184849	But the fact is that, as I noted, an inter-ministerial working group has been set up, which in this context comes back to me before the summer recess with a number of recommendations. This mapping and reflection should, of course, form the basis for the broad political debate that we must have. I would like to state where the government is in this context. However, everything the Committee on Legal Affairs has said has been included in the work in question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517184919	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517184921	I'm really glad. But the reason why this motion for a resolution has been tabled here is that there has been a lot of time since the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, in agreement, in other words all the parties in the Folketing, were behind a report. It was said that there were some very concrete initiatives that we would have liked to have taken. The reason why there is a resolution today is that it seems that not so much has happened. That is why this motion for a resolution contains 16 of the most concrete elements of that report. I would like the government to be able to signal today that the 16 specific elements contained in the motion for a resolution are something that the government supports, just as a unanimous Parliament last year indicated.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517185009	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517185011	What I can say is that the initiatives in the area of data protection that the government is going to take will take into account the recommendations and underlying concerns contained in the resolution. At the same time, when it is said that nothing has happened, I just want to say that, for example, The whole question of the data protection regulation and the negotiations in this area, which is part of all of this, has been closely involved and influenced. And now it has been adopted. There will be a huge amount of work ahead of us, including political work, to put these things in place. Now that there is something clear before the summer break in the form of recommendations from the inter-ministerial working group, I think it is a little unfair to say that nothing has happened. Our government hasn't even sat a year yet, and yet we're almost ready with this. However, I think that is something.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517185106	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. The next speaker is Mrs Trine Bramsen as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517185115	The proposal here instructs the government to take the necessary initiatives to follow the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. As one of the few remaining members of the Legal Affairs Committee who helped to write the report and thus instruct the previous government to initiate initiatives following the report, I can only support the call. If nothing else, steps must be taken to put turbo on the process. There can hardly be political opposition to this, not least bearing in mind that one of the most enthusiastic members of the committee's work, even the chairman of the committee, is a Leftman and today a member of the government. From this point of view, it is almost surprising that no further initiatives have been taken by the government in connection with this report long ago. The need is there, because more and more Danes use the Internet more and more from everything to daily planning, financial management, communication with the public and with each other, fun and shopping. Because more information is disseminated over the Internet, the risk has also become greater for data leaks and for information to end up in the wrong hands. Criminals have also found ways to use the Internet to an increasing extent. In fact, online crime, identity theft, cheating and misuse of information are the fastest-growing forms of crime. Needless to say, this requires an effort by the authorities. The authorities must also improve on the Internet, but above all this requires data security, and that is precisely what this report is supposed to put turbo on. On the part of the Social Democrats, we take the view that it may well be that the Minister for Justice arrives at the conclusion that not all the recommendations in the report are in the closet, even though one thought one was incredibly wise when it was issued a year ago. I say that, not least because there was a Left in front of the committee. We understand that it is perhaps not all recommendations that can be taken down directly and transferred, but for us it is crucial that the process is put turbos on the table, and that is why we can support the proposal here today, but we would clearly prefer to find a solution and get a process started so that power is set up more quickly here. Surely that is preferable to just requiring the government to get started. If, in the light of the very good committee work that led to this report, a good process can be set in motion in the future, we would prefer to do so, but otherwise we will support the proposal here. But the ball is now in the Ministry of Justice's court, and it would be interesting to have a written proposal for a process or to be called to a meeting on how to proceed from here in the good spirit in which the report is presented.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517185445	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next speaker is Mr. Jan Rytkjær Callesen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517185455	Thank you. On 15 January 2015, a unanimous Committee on Legal Affairs issued a report to instruct the Danish Parliament and the Government to take the necessary initiatives to follow the recommendations of the Committee: to prepare an annual report on data security for the Danish Parliament; that the necessary resources and powers exist so that the Danish Data Protection Agency can comply with the Personal Data Act and strengthen it; and to examine how the Danish Data Protection Agency can be associated with the Danish Parliament instead of the Ministry of Justice; that private companies are subject to the same sanctions and provide data processors with responsibility for ensuring personal data and complying with the Personal Data Act. At the same time, it is proposed to include the principle of privacy by design in future public IT systems. In addition, the government is required to take the necessary initiatives so that the principle of privacy by design is introduced as a requirement for all suppliers of public IT and digital solutions. The Danish People's Party welcomes the proposal, but it may of course be that we cannot be involved in all 16 points.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517185623	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517185627	Thank you for your positive statement. What has been the intention of the proposal is also what Mrs Trine Bramsen said from the parliamentary platform, precisely to put some power into this and put some turbo on it. When a unanimous Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, with all parties, is in favour of something, something must also happen afterwards. These are, after all, very important areas relating to data security, which are about protecting citizens' private information. Is it the case that the rapporteur can say something about which parts of the 16 points are then included in this resolution, because they are the most concrete ones that the rapporteur thinks are ideal for sending a clear signal to the government that something is now going to happen in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517185718	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517185720	Thank you for the question. There are some things in the 16 points here. I can, of course, highlight something positive in that. For example, the public system has: could not be fined for failing to comply with the Personal Data Act. It's only private. Of course, I think it is positive that the public should also be able to do so. Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517185746	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517185749	Is it the case that the rapporteur thinks that we should go in and look at whether some of the sticks should be removed or will the rapporteur vote in favour of the proposal as it stands here because it sends a signal to the government that something is going to happen in this area, or does the rapporteur think as a third possibility that what is needed is a bit like what Mrs Trine Bramsen said, namely that the minister should come up with something concrete, for example. convene a meeting or present a specific timetable? If that does not happen, will the rapporteur and the Danish People's Party vote in favour of this proposal in order to send a clear signal to the government that something is going to happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517185824	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517185826	We generally take a very positive view of this proposal, and we also think it should turbo on so that this can be implemented, so that you have the right data security in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517185835	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur is Mrs Christina Egelund. I'm sorry. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Torsten Schack Pedersen as rapporteur for the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517185852	Thank you. Fortunately, digitalisation has become a natural and integral part of modern society. Digitalisation means many new opportunities, new jobs, opportunities for growth, new ways of working, but of course it also presents new challenges. With regard to sensitive personal information, digitisation means that information that might previously be seen on a desktop could suddenly be placed on the web, and it can be incredibly difficult to remove it again. Personally sensitive information is certainly of no concern to the public and therefore it can be very offensive to those concerned if there is a lack of data security. Therefore, data security obviously means a lot in a society like the Danish one. Digitalisation must mean something positive for citizens and businesses, and that is why we, as legislators, have a role in ensuring security and security when it comes to personal data. On top of the SE and HØR case and other cases, a unanimous Legal Affairs Committee made a report in January 2015, and the report's recommendations essentially cover the same thing as Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution. What the Government and the Minister of Justice explained in the reply is the government in full implementation. A status update has been given to a number of the proposals in the reply to Question 147 in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights of January. Data security is central and therefore the theme of data security actually also fills a great deal in the new public digitalisation strategy for the public sector presented by the government in collaboration with KL and Danske Regions last week. Under the heading "A stronger and more secure digital society" there are among other things: focus on security and confidence in the digital processing of sensitive personal information. The Order on cybersecurity has just been sent in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, so much is happening in this area, and there is certainly good reason for this. As several speakers have said, the European Union's regulation on security in this area has just fallen into place. The Minister of Justice explained that there is more money on the way to the Data Protection Agency, and I have to say that the process described by the Minister of Justice about the further progress to ensure greater data security in Denmark is the right way to go, so that we ensure what is the purpose, namely digital security and security for citizens and companies in Denmark. The government is working on the matter, and that is why it may seem, especially in view of the fact that the EU regulation has only fallen into place after the motion for a resolution has been tabled, a bit like a mockery on the part of the Enhedslisten to raise the flag in an area that has been agreed. I have to say that the road map outlined by the Minister for Justice is supported by the Left, which is why we cannot support the Enhedslisten's proposal. It is the same message from the Conservative People's Party that I have promised to greet from.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517190159	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517190203	I would say that I would actually have taken the initiative to table this motion for a resolution together with several parties if there had been time, but there is, of course, a deadline called 1 April in here, and for reasons of time I could not get any more. But I think that this is something that must be discussed in the IT forum that now exists here in the Danish Parliament, where all the parties of the Danish Parliament are represented. It is not an IT committee; there are some parties that will not call it that it is at least obvious to follow up on this discussion. There are two reasons why it has been put forward. Firstly, because it is a little unclear what has happened so far and that there may well be a little more turbo on the process, but it is also due to the content. After all, the Minister of Justice has been asked to comment on this report and has provided a reply to as many as 23 pages following Question 147 put by the Committee on Legal Affairs on 31 August 2015. In that answer, it is indeed the case with regard to paragraph 13 of this motion for a resolution that the government will not go in at this time and make the analysis that a report implies, which means that there should be limits to what can be consented to. When, for example, you're gonna have to do something about it. downloads the facebook app, automatically allows Facebook to automatically turn on the camera and make recordings. It's part of the things you say yes to. The idea is that there is, for example. must be restricted to such a thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517190335	The speaking time is up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517190343	That's where I think maybe Mr. Knox... Rune Lund came to signal or say very clearly why there are some challenges in relation to the proposal. The data regulation has fallen into place after the motion for a resolution has been tabled, and I have to admit that I am by no means an expert on that, but it is natural that this should be clarified, because we need to implement that regulation. The elements in it are, of course, natural to be seen in a wider context, and that is what the Minister for Justice has said in relation to the way the government works on this matter, and I think that is more appropriate. And if it had been so important to Enhedslisten, you might have been out for a little better time. I believe that the reply from the Minister for Justice was given in January, but there was, after all, some time until 1 April.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517190429	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517190433	Now we are taking the debate here, and in this respect it is not so important who has exactly put the proposal forward. At least it's not for me and Enhedslisten, it's more important that we sort of focus on this. I just said it because I want to signal that I think it is something on which we should focus more broadly. However, another point on which the government is somewhat hesitant in the answer given to the Committee on Legal Affairs is, of course, in relation to paragraph 2 of this motion for a resolution which deals with an IT committee. It is an accident commission, just as we know it, if there is a bridge that collapses, where you look at IT projects that may fail or which are scandalised. There you want the same instruments to go in and see what went wrong, whether you can make experience collection and who is responsible. I really would have liked the government to be more clear about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517190522	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517190525	A number of the questions are already addressed in the digitalisation strategy presented by the government, KL and Danske Regions last week, where some of the challenges we generally face are described in relation to standards and everything else. As I heard from the Minister for Justice, the Minister for Justice takes those elements into account in relation to further work, and I think that is the most correct way of dealing with this, so that it is properly illuminated, thoroughly illuminated, taken in a context so that we can address the challenges that exist in terms of ensuring citizens and businesses digital security and proper protection of sensitive personal information. That must be what is at the heart of all of us, and I hope that is what will be rewarding in relation to further work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517190612	Thank you. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. Then we have a new rapporteur, Mrs Christina Egelund, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517190621	As our everyday life as a whole becomes more and more digital, it requires an increased focus on how to ensure that data does not come into the possession of the wrong people. Not only does this require a change of attitude among us as citizens, so that each of us is prepared to take care of the tracks we leave behind digitally, but it also requires that appropriate measures be put in place by the authorities to protect sensitive data. If we fail to maintain a sufficiently high level of safety, we, as citizens, face a great risk that information about our private lives will flow freely with violent violations. The motion for a resolution proposes to implement the initiatives of which a unanimous Committee on Legal Affairs is responsible, and there is enough to address when it comes to strengthening data security. For example: We should follow closely what is really happening with data security, and we should ensure that private companies and public authorities meet with the same sanctions when data security breaches occur. Because for the individual, the violation is equally severe, regardless of who is behind it. We should work to ensure that the responsibility for data security is brought together by one minister and we should ensure that the principle of privacy by design is implemented in public IT projects. Finally, we should ensure that the CPR is continuously reviewed with a view to data security. I do not think we can overestimate the importance of managing data security. We have, for example. Unfortunately already experienced a hacker attack on the CPR back in 2012, and we have a responsibility to secure sensitive data in an increasingly digital world. Of course, the Liberal Alliance supports the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517190808	There's a comment from Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517190813	I just want to thank you for your positive statement. It is not always the case that the Enhedslisten and the Liberal Alliance, when we stand down here in the Parliamentary Chamber, agree on everything, I think I can say, but when it comes to protecting the legal certainty of citizens and when it comes to transparency in democracy, we have an alliance, it can be said, to safeguard citizens' rights. I would also like to say with an IT minister that this proposal means that the government must think about it and that responsibility for distributing what the ministries should be is with the government. However, I can at least say that we in the Enhedslisten fully agree that an IT minister will be a clever thing, precisely in order to create a greater connection between the IT problems that exist, so that it is not something that happens in isolated islands around, but that, as society becomes increasingly digitised, it can be discussed together. But thank you for the positive expression of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517190914	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517190923	In the alternative, we are very pleased with this resolution and I would actually like to say that, in agreement with the Enhedslisten, I would like to point out that perhaps it is the first result of the new IT forum that has come here at Christiansborg. We do not have an IT committee, but we have an IT-beta committee, I would like to call it, even if we have an agreement that we should not do so because it is not something that the Folketing has set up. So it's not a committee, but we call it an IT forum. The fantastic thing about today's proposal, which has been included by the Enhedslisten, is that if we had had a little better time, we would probably have taken a round to see if we were all the rapporteurs who are now in this IT forum. Then it could have been that there was a strategy from the government side that meant that the government could not be involved, but then at least there would have been broad support from what might have been a reminder of an IT committee, and I think that is welcome. For this is a proposal that picks up something that has been lying for a year and has matured, and some of what our new IT forum can do is pick up these low-hanging fruits and do something about it. And we can start by taking into account everything that is not politically scam in and what we actually agree on, and we are on a lot of things in the IT field. I have even heard some of my colleagues at Castle say that perhaps one of the biggest problems in the field of IT is that we are so in agreement, there is simply no media time in it, and that is why there is no more debate. Because we all want to promote digitalisation in a proper way. Then we can disagree on whether it is efficiency or whether it is improvement that we are talking about when digitalising, but generally there is a great deal of agreement that Denmark should be a so-called d-country, that is, a country where we have digitalisation in the forefront, and that is why I fully support the proposal from the Enhedslisten. Whether the individual points are exactly the right ones from what we need to focus on right now, I have not, in fact, taken a position at all, but I do think they are all very, very important, and just that we in this Chamber can talk about privacy by design at all, makes the otherwise very, very visionary thoughts that are in the new IT policy of the Alternative, at least in some way get much closer to reality than anyone else has said to me so far that they were. For privacy by design is not something we discuss very much, and if we take it all the way under our skin and think about what it really means, if we are going to think privacy by design in public, then I think it will surprise many how much it takes to achieve the security that it takes. There, we will have to assess one of the biggest challenges and that is perhaps one of the only things that we do not fully agree on across the parties in the Chamber when we talk digitization • and that is what must come first, i.e. whether it is the hen or the egg. For digitalisation must also drive a growth in Denmark, but in order to drive this growth in a way where the foundation is good and solid, we must think privacy by design first, and it is often here where it is divided into red and blue in the hall, and when everything goes into a higher unit, it sometimes turns green. But if we think about privacy by design first, it is often the red parties that are involved in securing it, and if we think about growth first, it is often the blue parties. It is very, very hard set up, often it also goes the other way around, and there are some couplings that are connected across these colors. But the most important thing in the field of digitalisation is that, and that is what I will end by saying, while we support this proposal massively, and the most important thing we can do here in the Danish Parliament when we talk about digitisation, is to agree that privacy by design and the protection of personal data and information in companies is something that we must do today, and that does not have to be a brake on growth. But it can be an export product if we think about privacy by design, and Denmark is precisely using the public sector to grow data security and privacy by design, so that we are some of the first to spend the quite large sums we have available if we demand that this be what we do in public, and then we can start selling our competences abroad. That is why I would ask you to bear in mind that doing things right in the field of digitalisation is not something that hampers growth, because that is how the debate in this Chamber is, unfortunately, sometimes. So there is great support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517191323	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and it is only from Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517191328	Thank you. I was stunned that in his speech the rapporteur made it sound as if there had never been any debate on IT policy here before, either in the Parliamentary Chamber or at Christiansborg, by the way, before this new IT forum landed. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur if he can confirm that the proposal we are discussing here today has been worked on. There has been a committee working on it, and precisely the points we are discussing landed in January 2015. So the conclusion must be that IT policy has been discussed before the alternative landed at Christiansborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517191412	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517191415	I have just been trying to find something I disagree with for 10 seconds, but I simply cannot. It is quite true that IT has previously been discussed at Christiansborg. Although I am new to politics, I have even been handed down that there has also been an IT committee in the past. There have been many IT rapporteurs before me. I just experience that it is a downgraded part of what is being debated at Christiansborg. In the government base that was put forward, I think I have talked forward to the fact that two places were mentioned something that had to do with digitisation. Therefore, what I tried to praise before was actually just that something has been picked up that has been lying, i.e. some good work around IT that has been done here at Christiansborg a year ago. It has been picked up in this resolution. So I think that in every possible way there has been talk of IT before, but I do not see that in any way the focus is on the area that needs to be. So we are in complete agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517191505	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517191509	The rapporteur was concerned about the idea of privacy by design, as is stated in Nudansk, when new projects were being created. The rapporteur himself said that he put it a little polemical, namely that when it came to protection, it was perhaps the red parties, and when it came to growth, it was the blue ones. I am glad that the rapporteur made some reservations. For it could be that if you read the digitalisation strategy of the government, KL and Danske Regioner from last week, you would have found out that it says: When public IT solutions are designed and developed, data protection must be thought in as far as possible from the start. So the alternative must be pleased that the government is simply faster on the trigger than what the alternative is asking for, because it is part of the digitisation strategy that was presented last week.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517191558	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517191601	I almost thought that my speech was so cheerful that there could not be wormwood in the cup, but it has succeeded twice now. Because what we are talking about now is something that is one year old, which is just mentioned privacy by design. So it is something that has been there long before the digitisation strategy also came last week. However, I would like in all possible ways to welcome the fact that it is also included in the digitisation strategy: privacy by design and there are a lot of other good things on the part of the government that are in that strategy. What I am sensitive to is that a very few weeks ago, if I mentioned privacy by design, you would start to think quite quickly that stop, do we really think that our public IT systems should be built up about it? And there I would like to stretch out my hand and say that if it is the government's view that we should try to move in that direction quite quickly, that is that all public IT systems should be built around privacy by design, then we are very responsive in the alternative. I do not think that is what the digitisation strategy says, because it is very, very comprehensive. But you have to think data security in from the start, that's what I've read. However, it is very pervasive to think privacy by design into all public solutions. So I'm sorry if I sounded negative. I am very positive about the work the government has done.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517191701	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Zenia Stampe, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517191710	Thank you. It was a very interesting discussion and exchange of words that came just before I went on. I was actually going to go up and say that this is a rather procedural issue. I mean, I see the issue as a friendly reminder of "or perhaps a reminder of" a follow-up to the report in the Committee on Legal Affairs. And I think we should have that, too. But I think I feel the same way as the Socialists: that if we can get answers from the Minister for Justice and have a good discussion with him on this, perhaps it is in fact better than we vote through something that I can then hear from up here that more people are really a little hesitant about. I mean, was this really the right proposal we made in this plan? So I really hope that we can have a dialogue with the Minister. That is also how I hear the Minister and his rapporteur who in fact means that we can vote against this proposal, but in a way in which we all feel confident that something is actually happening. Now the proposer is looking at me and I cannot really decipher the attitude. However, I hope that we can reach a dialogue where the proposer also thinks it is satisfactory. So it is not because we want to withdraw our support for that report, but because we all just want something actually to be done and the minister to go ahead with it. It sounds like he's actually moving on, but we also want to be part of that process. So if we can get there, we will vote no. If we do not get there, we will vote yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517191840	Thank you to the rapporteur. It has previously been announced that SF is covered by the Alternative and Conservatives are covered by the Left. And then it must be the rapporteur for the proposers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517191911	This proposal is to be understood as a reminder that on 15 January last year it was a unanimous Committee on Legal Affairs which presented a report on how we in Denmark can strengthen data security. Because, as several of the other rapporteurs in this Chamber have said, society is becoming increasingly digitalised; more and more digital solutions are coming; we need to serve ourselves digitally when we turn to the municipality; and we all get smartphones with all sorts of apps. We are seeing an ever-increasing trend towards a digitalised society, which also offers many opportunities to us as people and as citizens of society. But there's also a security aspect in this digitalization, which needs to be taken care of very well. And it was the case that in the report presented by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights almost a year and a half ago, there were a number of very good concrete proposals on how we can improve data security here in Denmark. And because time has just passed and because there has been a little silence on the part of the government, this resolution has been tabled where we have taken the 16 most concrete recommendations from the report and they have been incorporated into this resolution. And it's to put some turbo on the process to ensure that when a report is made in a parliamentary committee, even with all parties behind it, it doesn't just get forgotten or fall between two chairs or be downgraded in relation to other agendas. So this is a mover; it's a reminder that something is about to happen. I am pleased to note today that, unless the government comes up with concrete initiatives, a concrete timetable, some concrete proposals on how we can push this process forward in order to follow up on the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs about a year and a half ago, there will be a majority here in the Danish Parliament who will send a friendly reminder to the government and say: now something is going to happen in this very important area, which is precisely about data security. There are 16 specific proposals. Proposal No 1 is that an annual report on data security is to be prepared for the Folketing. Proposal No 2 is that an instance will be set up that follows up data security breaches and draws conclusions on the basis of the breach and that will make the experience available to other authorities and businesses. This is what we call an IT Commission in everyday IT language, which will have to collect experience and also find out who is responsible if there has been a breach of data security, in the same way as we have an accident commission, which will deal with a situation if, for example, there is one. is a bridge that may have collapsed somewhere in Denmark. Proposal No 3 is that more resources should be allocated to the Data Protection Agency, and the Minister indicated that he would like to add 2 million. kr. extra. It's a step on the way, you might say. If Enhedslisten had to decide, our bid would be, as we have put it in our IT proposal, which we presented almost two years ago, that the grant to the Data Protection Agency should be adjusted upwards by 50%, and that would actually mean that 10 million would be added. kr. But okay, it's a step along the way, and it's nice to get that statement from the government that you put a concrete amount of money on what you've been thinking about strengthening the Data Protection Agency. Then is Recommendation No. 4 that we are looking at how the Danish Data Protection Agency can be linked closer to the Danish Parliament. And it comes from the fact, as the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs has also shown, that the Council on Digital Security has stated that it supports the location of a data protection authority in the Folketing, because the Council does not believe that the Data Protection Authority, with its current position under the Ministry of Justice, fulfils the independence which, for example, exists. is laid down in the Charter of Fundamental Human Rights of the European Union. And that is simply what forms the basis of Recommendation No. 4. Recommendation No 5, as some of the rapporteurs have also mentioned, is about sanctions • Why should it be the case, in the context of a breach of data security, that private companies can be punished for some offences, while the public authorities cannot be punished for the same offences? In other words, this is a way to ensure that the same rules apply to both private and public. And that must be important here, because as a citizen of this country, you can, so to speak, be indifferent to where the breach is going, if it is the same break-up, for example. Lying and flowing information all sorts of places, very personal information. Then there are various other proposals which are also included in the 16 proposals I cannot go through all of them. However, I would like to mention Amendment No 1. 9 and 10, which is of course about privacy by design, so that we have to set up our IT systems in such a way that if there is a data leak, if there is suddenly information about citizens in society, then that information is made in such a way that you cannot deduce who the information is about. And that is something like that, for example. do not use the cpr number as a key that you connect other information to, but give people a user number that is unique to the database where the information is posted. In any case, the systems must be designed in such a way that a break or data leak occurs, it cannot be deduced who the sensitive information actually relates to. There is also another recommendation that I would like to bring forward, which is about control of user access, in other words that it should be registered as a requirement in public tender contacts. And if I may highlight one of the points in the long 23-page answer given by the Minister for Justice, following on from the report, which was given almost a year and a half ago, this is one of the few places where the government actually indicates that there is some sense in it and that this is something you want to look at. So there is at least one place where you go in and take a positive view of the report, and that is a good thing. Then there are a lot of other proposals too, but the last thing I want to mention is Amendment No. 16, which is of course about the fact that the use of the CPR number should undergo a basic revision, including that the surrender of the CPR number should not only be able to constitute authentication. And after all, the cpr number is also about the data leak from the CSC, which several have mentioned from up here, where 900,000 cpr numbers were available for just under an hour's time because of the data breach that was • not safe, as it is today. And it is quite clear that it must somehow be replaced by a new system or at least be of less importance. It certainly cannot be a crank in the way it has been before, because the system is simply too untimely it is not modern and it is too uncertain. But I note today that unless something very concrete comes from the Minister for Justice, a majority in the Danish Parliament will send a reminder to the government to say that when a unanimous Committee on Legal Affairs in the Danish Parliament says that we want to improve data security, we are actually serious about this. And I therefore hope that the Minister will provide a clear timetable and a clear indication of what is going to happen and some very concrete answers to the very concrete measures contained in the report, and not something that I consider to be too loose, which does not respond directly to the recommendations and concrete initiatives that are actually contained in the report. And that's the answer to question No. 147 which I am referring to here and which I have mentioned a few times. There we must therefore have a detailed examination, in which we simply look, for each specific proposal contained in the report, at what the government has done and what the government intends to do to ensure precisely the purpose of the report, namely to significantly increase data security for the Danes. I also believe that in this context we can use the new IT forum, as Mr. René Gade has taken the initiative here in the Danish Parliament, which consists of the IT rapporteurs, and in which we can, of course, also discuss it in great detail and follow the concrete proposals contained in the report, where 16 have been taken out here. For the 16 points which have been included in this motion for a resolution are, after all, all very important points, and each of them could, in fact, be changed in order to have a proper discussion of it. So there is a lot of work to be done to follow up on the report and what lies there. But I am certainly glad that unless the government moves out with something more and some more initiatives, there is a majority in the Folketing here who will send the government a reminder.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517192911	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517192915	I have a question, but first I regret that I forgot to say that the SF also supports the resolution. I should have said that from the platform. I would like to ask the rapporteur if it is not quite understood that if the government actually comes up with something concrete, it is also interesting for the rapporteur. One thing is that many of us are very positive about this resolution. But if it could now be stronger and more effective if the government offered something else, would it be interesting for the rapporteur too?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517192941	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517192944	I can confirm that. The purpose of putting forward this motion for a resolution is simply to speed up the process and to highlight the fact that a unanimous Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights actually said 1⁄2 years ago: we want to strengthen data security in Denmark. Since then there has been a lot of silence and the Minister's reply to the report does not go in and comment on the individual proposals in concrete terms, I think. And there are doubts as to whether it has really been tackled and whether it is taken seriously enough in the government. That is why the motion for a resolution has been tabled. So I would like to say that if there is a solution in which the government clearly shows that it intends to follow up all the recommendations and specific points contained in the report, including the sixteen drawn up in this resolution, then it is clear that this will have had an effect. For then alone, the fact that we have had the debate and that a mover from the Danish Parliament is being threatened has helped to speed things up. And I see that as a victory.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517193053	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517193057	The same applies to the alternative. After all, my speech was perceived a little more critical than it should. It should have been seen as almost jubilee-positive. I tried to ensure that, but the alternative position is precisely that: let us finally get the government in and play with it if that is possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517193111	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517193114	I know the alternative's position, and I also understood what the rapporteur said from up here, as exactly the same as the rapporteur says from his chair now.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517193125	Thank you to the rapporteur. In fact, no one else has asked to speak, and the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517193146	The debate is open, and it is first the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517193210	Thank you, President. I thank Enhedslisten for the proposal to change the offsetting of municipal use of operating income from municipal renewable energy installations. The Enhedslisten proposes a change to the Electricity Act and other relevant legislation so that municipalities are not offset against block grants if the municipalities use operating income from wholly or partly municipally owned renewable energy installations for other climate improvement measures. The Enhedslisten explains the proposal that the set-off rules in the Electricity Act are not adapted so that they are up-to-date in relation to investments in renewable energy installations and the participation of municipalities in this area. The Enhedslisten believes that the profits from renewable energy installations should not be used only within the separate company, but should also be able to be used for other climate improvement measures such as: communal energy saving measures. It is the Government's ambition in the field of energy that Denmark should become independent of fossil fuels by 2050. With the 2012 Energy Agreement, which was concluded by a broad circle of parties, Denmark has moved some way towards independence from fossil fuels. However, the Government cannot support Enhedslisten's proposal as it will allow municipalities to use the profits of existing electricity generating companies for other earmarked activities. If municipalities wish to finance climate improvement initiatives, this should be done as part of a general priority for the tax-financed municipal funds. In addition, the government considers that a relaxation of the set-off rules should not be used to promote municipal investments in electricity generation from renewable energy sources in competition with private companies. In the current rules, it is already possible for municipalities to run electricity supply activities with renewable energy installations. However, this must be done in a separate and separated company and the municipalities cannot draw a profit from the company and use it for normal operation without offsetting the block grant. The current rules therefore already allow municipalities to have renewable energy installations. That is why the government rejects the Enhedslisten's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517193431	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517193435	Thank you. I think that was a very disappointing answer. The legislation we have is reasonable enough in cases where a municipality sells its electricity company. That's why you made the law. It's a NESA law that was made when Gentofte sold its power company. But what happens these days? Yes, there is now a clear trend towards a number of municipalities wishing to participate in the green transition and, as such, ready to invest in renewable energy installations. Then, after perhaps 10 years, a day comes when they have a profit they would like to draw out and invest in something else, so under current legislation they can only invest in new wind turbines or solar installations. So we think it would be reasonable to spread it out a little so that the surplus from a municipal wind turbine can be used to reduce the municipality's energy costs. I am disappointed that the Minister does not see that making municipalities a major player in the sustainable conversion is something we need to promote. Can the Minister not see that it would make sense to give the municipalities a better framework for participating in the sustainable transition?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517193545	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517193547	Thank you for the question. I am not surprised that the questioner is disappointed in the answer. There is an ideological difference here. We do not want to allow municipalities to do business, even in the field of renewable energy, in competition with private companies. There is now a clear definition of the possibilities for the municipal owned companies, and if investments are to be made in energy, this must be done within the company's own sphere of responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517193622	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517193625	If it is the case that a private company has a profit and has to pay tax on it, then it is the ordinary corporation tax that the company has to pay. I do not really understand why the Minister thinks that he does, when it is a municipality that owns a wind farm, which we have seen with Samsø Wind energy, in which the municipality has a significant share, and we are faced with, for example, that there is a significant share of wind energy. is HOFOR Vind, in which the City of Copenhagen could invest massively as part of a sustainable transition. Does the Minister really believe that it is reasonable that the taxation of a municipal wind turbine company should be at 40 or 60% when others can only pay ordinary corporation tax on a profit?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517193703	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517193704	We are of the opinion that it is not a municipal task to start operating in competition with other companies, and this could be the case here. The municipalities have the opportunity to withdraw the money and have to pay 40%. in tax if they do it over a longer period of time, and 60% if they do immediately.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517193726	Thank you, Minister. We shall begin with the rapporteur's series. It's first, sir. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517193734	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the Enhedslisten for the motion for a resolution. I think, if I may be quite honest, that we will be able to discuss in the coming years how to ensure even better opportunities for the municipalities to be involved in the green transition. And in that spirit, one might say, we in the Social Democratic Party are in favour of discussing with Enhedslisten and with all sorts of others how to actually ensure such involvement. I would also like to say that we do not support the motion for a resolution tabled, and I also believe that we need to take this discussion in a wider circle, in the circle of energy conciliation, because there are some uncertainties about the proposal that has been put forward here. Enhedslisten writes himself that when you make money from some renewable energy installations, there can be good reason why they cannot be used for everything in the municipality, and then you write: But they can be used for climate actions widely understood. I think it is a little unclear yet how wide this should be understood. The second is also that I think that if you go into this discussion that we would actually like to support the municipalities setting up and expanding the renewable capacity, we will also have to discuss in the conciliation circle and elsewhere how we achieve the most optimal energy planning as a society and not just for the individual municipality. That is why I believe that, in terms of both the use of money on the one hand, and in terms of earnings, in other words, how to set up wind turbine capacity, or whatever it may be for a capacity, we need a framework and some clarification. Against this background, we do not support the proposal as it stands here, but we are of course happy to discuss whether the municipalities can be made a major player in the green transition in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517193931	Thank you. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517193935	If the rapporteur now reads at the end of the remarks on the proposal, he can see that it says as follows: "It is proposed that the Minister, in cooperation with the energy conciliation board, draw up a list of concrete climate measures which are exempt from set-off. This means that what the rapporteur is asking for, namely a slightly clearer list, and that the circle of energy disputes should have an impact on this, have been fully included in the motion for a resolution. A great deal of legislation is adopted in this Parliament, and I have therefore found an issue here where it is far too long ago that has been regulated in this area, especially when you look at what the municipalities are prepared for. I think that we should come to the conclusion that we should have the municipalities as co-players to a much greater extent. This proposal could of course benefit what HOFOR Vind is doing on behalf of the City of Copenhagen. A strategy is being pursued to invest in mills with a capacity of 350 MW and is therefore part of one of the three consortia which are pre-qualified to bid on the coastal mills. This is, of course, a concrete example of the fact that the municipalities are equally involved and are an actor in the sustainable conversion process. I find it difficult to understand why the rapporteur does not see the positive side of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517194043	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517194044	First to the specific point: of course I have also read to the end of the resolution and have also seen that we want the energy conciliation circle to name what climate change adjustment things should apply. What is really my question is: why is it that the Enhedslisten would like to limit it to that, and is it a discussion that it can also be used even wider? So there is a limit in the resolution to what money can be used for, and I really think that discussion is incomplete here. Then there is what is not answered in this motion for a resolution, which is my main appeal: the one about how we ensure that it will not be the individual municipality's need to raise some money for another area that will have an impact on how we develop renewable energy. Because we would like to support the municipalities becoming more active players in the transition, but we would also like to be able to plan as in other areas of the energy system, so that it will not be the individual municipality's need to raise some new money that determines what energy capacity is being set up and where it is being set up. That is the input side of what is very, very little highlighted in this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517194151	Thank you. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517194154	I would, of course, like to contribute to the search for a text which, like that, clarifies those things. Because I have no problem with a municipality putting up solar cells on all municipal buildings in good planning, because then it will happen that after perhaps 10 years that investment will be repaid, and then it seems that the municipality can get free power from those plants for some years that can improve operation. Well, who really doesn't mind? This could, of course, mean that municipal operations were improved. So I look forward to us trying to write on a report which clarifies those things and meets the rapporteur for the Social Democrat Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517194228	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517194229	I would like to thank you for that and I shall look forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517194232	Then it's mr. Christian Poll, the alternative, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517194235	Thank you. There are many buildings in the municipal area with many large roofs. I am thinking that the proposal from the Enhedslisten may just help to promote the installation of more solar cells on such roof surfaces. Wouldn't that be a good and simple way to do it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517194253	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517194255	Yeah, you could say that. That would certainly take some steps in the right direction. Conversely, even though solar cells have become cheaper, it is still not the cheapest form of renewable energy. Therefore, there is still a need for planning and agreements on how to do these things if we are to make the most of our green transition. And yes, I also believe that the municipalities can play a greater role in the future in relation to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517194321	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more comments. Sir. Mikkel Dencker, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517194331	Thank you, President. I would like to begin by saying that we in the Danish People's Party reject the motion for a resolution from the Enhedslisten. And frankly I have to say that we have been surprised that the Enhedslisten, with the motion for a resolution here, is opening up the possibility for municipalities to operate with profits, that is. profit, for the sake of a profit which must go in and finance the other municipal operations, as actually planned. I am well aware that the intention of the motion for a resolution is that only a limited proportion of municipal expenditure should be covered by green energy surpluses. But for us it is quite a matter of principle that it is opened up to the fact that running municipal utilities is no longer something that just has to rest in itself, but is something with which we must start to finance other costs in the municipality's economy. In the Danish People's Party we have the view that municipalities are allowed to operate utilities, including setting up renewable energy plants, but it must not therefore be something that should generate profits. It must rest in itself and is therefore not something that should help finance other things, as I have also mentioned. We think so for a number of reasons. We think it would be unfair competition if municipalities could go into business. This is a field in which we must allow private companies to operate, and public authorities must stay out of it. In addition, there is the view that when the public authorities have to finance their services to the public, they have to do so with the greatest possible transparency. And it is by levying taxes on which everyone can see the rates, and so everyone can see what they pay and not by doing business at the same time, which also provides a return that goes into the municipal economy. So we also reject the motion for a resolution because we do not want the opaqueness that this could lead to.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517194549	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517194551	I am a little surprised at the position of the Danish People's Party, because in other contexts the Danish People's Party seems that it is actually a plus if we can come to the conclusion that Denmark has a certain degree of self-sufficiency, so that you are not dependent on importing energy from countries that you do not like. So it is really a little strange not to allow municipal buildings to have solar cells and that the municipalities where there is room for some wind turbines can help to own wind turbines. That transparency, which the rapporteur is asking for, is, of course, a fact because if it is the case that a municipality has ownership of renewable energy or other types of energy, then accounts must be made for them. Typically, things are laid out in a limited liability company where there is full transparency about it, and there it will be seen when you arrive at a date where there is a surplus. So the intention of the proposal is simply to give the municipalities a better chance of having a good running by owning, for example. solar cells located on the municipality's own buildings. Would the rapporteur rather see those land rented out to external actors so that they can set up solar cells?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517194658	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517194701	It is a perfectly normal practice that municipalities can rent an area to private people who want to use it for a purpose, and it could also be solar cells. However, there is now nothing in the Danish People's Party's politics about that, I think the questioner has misunderstood that municipalities are not allowed to set up solar cells. We certainly do not object to this, and this is already happening in many places today. We have nothing against wind turbines either. But we have a problem with the fact that you want to operate in order to make money from it to finance the other municipal operations. We do not want to open that up as opposed to Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517194737	Enhedslisten, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517194739	If this legislation does not change, we are in a situation where a municipality really has to pay 40 or 60% if you take a profit from a renewable energy plant. I would like to know whether the rapporteur thinks that this is a fair corporate tax compared to what companies otherwise pay for a surplus from a solar plant.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517194801	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517194803	I don't think we're getting any closer to an agreement on this. I can hear that Enhedslisten, as something completely new, believes that municipalities should be allowed to engage in business activities. We just disagree with the Danish People's Party. Municipalities must provide services to their citizens and then they can run a supply business alongside them, but it is therefore a utility company that must rest in itself and not make a profit to finance other operating costs for the municipality.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517194831	Sir. Christian Poll, the alternative, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517194836	But isn't that clever, since we have all these big roof surfaces on, for example. schools and leisure homes, and what is there of public buildings, that one could then create such a snowball effect, where one gets plants laid up there and then make sure that they can drive the profits further into the next climate action, the next solar installations, and what else is needed? That's actually a pretty smart way to run the green transition, isn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517194903	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517194905	Yes, and there is nothing to prevent municipalities from doing so today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517194912	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517194914	But there's the deterrent effect that when you set off the block grant or have to pay a very large share of the tax, it's not so good a business, and then you hold back from making the investment that could give the start of this snowball effect. Is it true that this is the mechanism that is right now?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517194931	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517194932	As I know the rules, municipalities are allowed to reinvest in new solar cells. What we are discussing here today is whether you should be able to withdraw an operating surplus from your solar business and drive it into it, you might say, normal municipal operation. And that is what we in the Danish People's Party are opposed to.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517194955	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Thomas Danielsen, Left, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517195003	Thank you for that, President. When considering the motion for a resolution B 95 on the modification of the offsetting of municipal use of operating income from municipal renewable energy installations, the Left votes against the proposal. With the resolution, the Enhedslisten refers to relaxing the principle of offsetting, and of course the Left is against this, as it is not appropriate to allow municipalities to use any surplus for activities earmarked for other purposes. Funding for climate prevention initiatives should continue to be given priority to municipal tax-financed funds and, if the principle of offsetting is relaxed, local authorities' motivation to invest in renewable energy installations is increased. These plants will compete directly with private providers of renewable energy installations, and we are simply not interested in that in the Left. We must have fair relations for all parties. Current legislation indicates that it is already possible for municipalities to have renewable energy installations as long as their profits remain within the municipal utility company. But, of course, the municipalities must not be able to use their profits for other purposes without offsetting the block subsidy. That is why the Left is convinced that the principle of set-off ensures equal conditions for all, and we are not inclined to change that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517195145	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517195148	I understand that the rapporteur would like to have a level playing field and therefore does not want the municipalities to be able to invest in renewable energy and draw out a surplus. But what we have, if we do not change the legislation, is unequal competition. If it is the case that HOFOR wins the supply of coastal mills, that is to say, the supply where they are part of one of the consortia, and arrives at a profit one day from that investment, then the current legislation will be such that they will be drawn into block grants if that surplus is drawn out and put into the municipality's treasury. In this way, there will be a higher level of taxation than if you just had to pay company tax. However, I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur does not see that there is, in this way, unequal competition at this stage. Why not open the door to at least a level playing field? It could, for example, be done. is that you only have to pay the corporation tax that other companies do?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517195243	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517195247	The whole point of the set-off rules is, of course, that the level of service in the municipalities should not be up to the municipality's investment desire. It should not be the case that municipalities that are good at investing in wind installations or making other investments can offer better services to their citizens. That is why the revenue generated by these investments must, of course, be offset against the block subsidy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517195318	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517195321	After all, this proposal is not about the money being taken out and included in the service. What is stated at the end of the comments on the motion for a resolution is that it is proposed that the Minister, in cooperation with the Energy Committee, draw up a list of concrete climate measures which are exempt from set-off. That is to say, it's not a matter of running day nurseries with this surplus. It is a question of money going to the energy renovation of buildings or perhaps to electric cars, or whatever we can agree on in the energy reconciliation circle. Does the rapporteur not see that there could be some sense in this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517195354	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517195357	Maybe I didn't make myself clear enough. I am fully aware of the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution as regards the fact that we do not want day institutions to be invested in. But the point of the left is that if you make this rule for the municipalities, they will have a greater incentive to invest in electricity generation than the companies they compete with in the private market. And that is why it is not a proposal that the Left wants to support.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517195425	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further comments, and the next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517195435	Thank you. With this motion for a resolution, Enhedslisten will require the government to relax the possibility for the municipalities themselves to use any operating income from municipal owned energy plants for new energy improvement measures by failing to set off the block subsidy in these situations. On the basis of this, we can of course agree that it would be good for the municipalities to avoid this particular taxation. On the other hand, however, we do not think that it is Parliament's job in this way to interfere in municipal priorities. We are several parties that want to make it open and transparent, what the state really spends on the green transition, and then it is important for us to see that the PSO tax, for example. costs a few super hospitals or 80 new primary schools every year, because among other things. wind turbines are subsidised. This priority must be open to all, so that you can see what it costs and what you can get instead. That is, and remains, the most democratic in our view. And this openness should also be in the municipalities, so as not to be forced into investments that have been initiated from in here by detours. The Minister has also mentioned the relationship with the consumer-owned private companies, which can have unnecessary competition from municipal investment in electricity generation. Here, too, the Liberal Alliance is in line with the Minister, and for these reasons we shall vote against the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517195610	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517195612	I would like to thank the rapporteur for seeing that, with the current rules and in the way they operate, this is a special tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517195623	There are no further comments. Then it's mr. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517195632	We would like to thank Enhedslisten for this excellent proposal. It is the case that in the time we are in now, we need to set up a lot of renewable energy plants, drive them and make the snowball roll as much as possible. Therefore, in this context, it is impractical that the municipalities are handicapped in the expansion that they could see from their point of view. So we are positive about Enhedslisten's proposal and think it is a very good idea to look at whether you can remove some of the barriers that lie there.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517195719	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Johannes Lebech, Radical Left, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517195734	Excuse me, Chairman. President Yes, it will be all right). I didn't realize the alternative was so I have to be quick as well. I do not have much to say about this proposal here. This may seem very sympathetic from the point of view of environmental policy, and the intentions to motivate municipalities to use more green energy can also be seen. But on the part of the Radical Left, we are concerned about the economic consequences. Some planning problems have also been mentioned earlier today, which I agree with, so we cannot immediately support the proposal, but will of course take a positive part in the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517195812	Thank you for that, thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. There is no SF rapporteur, it seems, and then it is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517195825	Thank you for that, President. We have, of course, had a good look at what is really in this resolution, so I shall not tire any parties to go through that further. In principle, we don't like these municipal ownerships in energy plants on the part of the Conservatives. We really think it is more appropriate for individuals to be allowed to compete on equal terms. It has to be said that if you are in a situation where there is a surplus in such a plant, there is, of course, potential for consumers who are to be allowed to pay a lower price for the product they are given, and that is what we think would be more fair than that of spending the excess funds without there being complete transparency about it. It is a bit of the same considerations that several other rapporteurs have mentioned. We also want to see the green transition, we want it to be in the municipalities too, but we believe that there must be more transparency in how to use these funds, and then we really think that resting in itself is quite essential in these companies with local authority ownership or co-ownership. That is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution either.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517195940	Thank you. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517195943	The openness desired by the Conservatives, I am quite sure, can be found by looking at the municipal accounts. Then it is the case that Frederiksberg Municipality has invested in a windmill on Sjælland. HOFOR, i.e. Copenhagen's utility company, has thus been investing in wind turbines on land around Denmark. There's a process going on. So there are some rapporteurs who are opposed to this, but that is what is happening at the moment. Municipalities are active partners in the sustainable transition, but they just have some unfair tax conditions if it is the case that one day they arrive at a profit they would like to spend on improving energy consumption in municipal buildings, for example. In other words, with the rigid legislation that is now in place, the municipalities have only the possibility of continuing to invest in renewable energy until they own the whole of the world's renewable energy plants, and that is not appropriate. That's why we want to promote this change. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur is aware of the fact that a number of municipalities have actually invested in wind turbines around the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517200050	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517200052	Thank you. I am well aware that there are municipalities that invest in wind turbines, for example. I've been looking at some of them myself. But that does not change the fact that this lack of transparency is a real problem. Because it can be said that if a company has a surplus, I think it is most fair that this set-off should take place, and then it must be up to the local politicians to give priority to the funds available. Well, it has to be obvious to citizens that when you invest in wind turbines, you do it on an equal footing with being able to invest in everything else. It must be an open decision that is fully informed to the public. And I don't think people are if you let the money get ripped out of the community-owned company.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517200137	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517200141	After all, these are municipal-owned companies which are influenced by the members of the municipal council, and I would like to see the possibility of changing the scope for using the profits without being taxed on fire, so that the Treasury earns the most from its activities. Well, I am actually 100% sure that there is transparency in this, because it has to be put in a separate limited company, so that you do not risk the entire municipality's economy. So, if that openness, which the rapporteur is asking for, may I say that with the current rules, these conditions are in order.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517200214	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517200216	I have to say, then, that the questioner and I also disagree in principle on these municipal-owned companies, which we do not think is a very good idea. We think it is better to let the private sector compete freely on the market.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517200230	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517200245	I should just like to say that I should like to welcome the SF and say that they support our proposal. So I would like to thank the alternative for supporting the proposal and thank the Liberal Alliance for having understood that there is currently unfair taxation of municipal companies. I would like to thank the Social Democratic Party, which has shown a little bit of openness for perhaps a writing work that could lead us perhaps to an understanding of what could be good solutions in the future. But otherwise I think this debate is a little disappointing, because it is like some sort of deadlocked positions, and I think that it would be very beneficial for Denmark if we were open in our climate and energy policy to get as many players as possible to participate in the sustainable transition. I have learned that it is difficult to get state money into play for the sustainable transition. It is precisely the opposite that we are experiencing is the intention here lately. Particularly in this situation, it must be important to provide a framework that allows municipalities, housing companies, pension companies, and whatever else it might be, to have a reasonable and good framework for making their investments and having certainty as to what rules apply in the future. It is against this background that I am a little disappointed that you cannot see the unfairness of this, because the legislation you have is not based at all on the present. The legislation is based on something you wanted to slow down when Gentofte Municipality sold its electricity company and scored a huge gain on it. And it is understandable that Svend Auken then promoted a law that could intervene against further sales and could limit how much a municipality could benefit from it when it sold its own energy company. The same rules apply when Samsø Municipality makes a major investment in Samsø Sea Wind, buys eight mills and eventually arrives at a situation where there can be a surplus which can be withdrawn from that investment and which could go for an investment in an increased conversion to renewable energy installations, so that one did not depend on having small amounts of money on the Finance Act or on having to have sums out by the energy reserve being committed in such a way that Samsø is taken into account. We could have avoided this if it were the case that there was just a slightly freer framework for what a municipality could use its profits for from renewable energy plants. The Energy Academy on Samsø could then have had an opportunity to obtain a grant through the profits that are from the municipal mills. I see some huge benefits in this. That is why it is a comprehensive and broad-based proposal which suggests that in this way it is the energy conciliation circle which should look at what concrete climate measures were to be exempted from the set-off, which is otherwise practice. It looks like it doesn't have a chance to find a majority in this assembly. Of course, one can always propose that the same proposal be put forward in the next session, but otherwise it might well look as if it is something that needs to be worked on and that can only be realised after the next parliamentary elections. I think that is a pity, because when you look at the climate plans that are in the municipalities, they are ambitious. What Copenhagen is going to do with becoming CO2 2 These were my comments on the receipt of our motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517200647	Thank you. Sir. Mikkel Dencker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517200650	I have sat here during the rapporteur's presentation and wondered at all these expressions that it is good about investment, profits, profits and something like that. I do not really think it rhymes with what Enhedslisten used to say, namely something with capitalism that I thought Enhedslisten, who declared socialists, was very opposed. So how does it work? Is it because right here it is about a small isolated area that Enhedslisten likes, where capitalism of this kind can then be driven, which is usually fought so hard against? Does the rapporteur not agree with me and the Danish People's Party that there should be transparency in public funds, in other words, that it is best for citizens to be able to see where the money comes from and that it is therefore most transparent that it is through tax collections that public expenditure is financed, rather than through business?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517200748	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517200751	In other words, Enhedslisten is very much in favour of municipal investment being made, and we would also like to open up better opportunities for municipal production, and would also like it to be a municipal production that made a profit and that could be reinvested in the municipality and benefit the citizens, for the level of service, etc.; so we have no problem with that. We are also in favour of pension companies being able to invest and get some reasonable return on their investments, which can help ensure that we have pension savings when we get a little older. For us it is very important that there should be transparency; there will be transparency, and so is now. In the municipal public limited companies which own electricity generation plants, there are public accounts which can be looked at. In some cases there are also some council members who are appointed to sit in the companies. There is, in fact, full transparency about these municipal investments in renewable energy, so the rapporteur can be quite confident about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517200851	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517200916	The debate is open. It's first the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517200934	Thank you, President. As I have emphasised many times, the Paris Agreement is a historic turning point for the global transition to low-mission, and it sets the framework for our future international climate cooperation. With the agreement, all the countries of the world are committed to drawing up national climate plans to reduce their emissions. 189 countries have already presented their plans, which cover more than 95%. of global emissions. That is why the government fully supports the Paris Agreement. In Paris we managed to put important fingerprints on the deal. The European Union was united. We worked purposefully for an ambitious climate agreement and managed to secure a number of our priorities. I'm proud of that. Just four weeks ago, I myself had the pleasure of signing the agreement on behalf of Denmark at the United Nations headquarters in New York with 174 Heads of State and Government and other ministers. With our presence, we marked our strong support for the agreement and the work to implement it. The Paris Agreement must now be ratified by both the EU Member States and the EU as a whole. The government has always stated clearly that we will ratify the Paris Agreement as soon as possible and that under no circumstances will Denmark delay the EU's overall ratification. There's nothing new about that. That is why I am not going to accept the alternative resolution either. I see no reason why a resolution should be tabled requiring the government to ratify as soon as possible. This is, of course, a point on which there is consensus across the board. The government has even presented a clear timetable for Danish ratification. Last Thursday, I announced that the government will, as soon as possible in the next parliamentary assembly, table a motion for a resolution on Denmark's ratification of the Paris Agreement. As I said, the Government supports the Paris Agreement and stresses that it can enter into force as soon as possible. That is why I hope that by presenting a concrete timeframe, we can also help to push for the EU and its Member States to ratify the agreement as soon as possible. We must remember that Denmark can first and foremost become a party to the agreement once the other Member States and the EU as a whole have ratified the agreement. This also means, of course, that although we have completed our national ratification process, we still have to wait for the rest of the European Union to implement theirs before we can become parties to the agreement. So far, France, as far as I know, is the only country in the European Union that has reported clearly when it wants to ratify. I will therefore also work to ensure that the European Union announces a clear timetable for the ratification of the Paris Agreement by the European Union. It will send a strong and clear signal that the EU will ratify the agreement as soon as possible. I hope that all of you will support the ambitious approach presented by the government. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517201241	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. Sir. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517201245	Thank you. The minister, as the Minister himself mentioned, last week said that the government wants to ratify the Paris Agreement as soon as possible. In this way, we are in agreement. What is the reason why we are not withdrawing the proposal and that it is still relevant is that we in the committee work would like to dive into the table and I also hope that the Minister would like to dive into it together with the Danish Parliament what steps there are in such a ratification process and what timetable for the one we can agree on. It is true that we have heard that this has to happen after the summer holidays, but much more detailed was not the timetable. The Left rapporteur, Thomas Danielsen, said the other day in the Deadline that this government has decided to vote in favour of resolutions with which they agree. Does the Minister still think what the Minister said in the debate last Thursday, namely that we must ratify the agreement as soon as possible so that it might coincide with this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517201349	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517201351	Thank you for the question. Yes, we will ratify the agreement as soon as possible, and that is why I believe that this motion for a resolution is totally superfluous. We are working to do so as soon as possible, just as we are also prepared to present a timetable for ratification with regard to the European Union, in which we are also pressing for the European Union to have as rapid and effective ratification as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517201418	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517201420	Does the Minister expect such a timetable to ensure that Denmark becomes one of the first countries to ratify? I understand that, for example. France, too, today, has a first reading and we can expect other countries to try to achieve it. Does the Minister expect such a timetable to ensure a good place for us with regard to the driver's shirt?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517201445	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517201446	I certainly hope so, but the decisive thing for Denmark is not whether we are the first, second or third country. The crucial thing for us is that the European Union should speed up ratification. And only after the EU has ratified the agreement as a whole can Denmark become part of an overall agreement, with the commitment to be made to the EU, with regard to the reduction in CO2 emissions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517201511	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517201515	As far as ratification in the European Union is concerned, I think it would be a good thing if Denmark were among the very first to participate. However, I would like to know whether the Minister's last comment should be understood in such a way that we in Denmark can only begin to carry out the actions once the last country in the European Union has ratified the agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517201534	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517201536	After all, it is my view that we are starting a process, and I expect that in the course of the forthcoming assembly, preferably as early as possible. And then there's gonna be a job over the summer. Here, the task of distributing the 40 per cent. After all, CO2 Denmark is already pursuing a very active climate and energy policy, so we are well in the process of meeting the requirements that we are faced with up to 2030.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517201610	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517201613	I do not think that was a very clear answer. Because I can see that we can move on and get to work on the discussions in Denmark before the last country has ratified. Should the Minister's reply be understood in such a way that we will not be able to initiate concrete action until the last country in the European Union has ratified the agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517201633	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517201633-2	Thank you for the question. After all, the task here will cover the period from 2020 to 2030. The initiatives we have already taken will, of course, have to be built on top. But I don't see any need for pt. to launch new initiatives. We will wait for the European Union to have the task shared among the countries as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517201655	Thank you, Minister. We shall now proceed to the rapporteur's report. Sir. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517201707	Thank you, President. On the socialist side, we are in complete agreement with the alternative. After all, we hear from the Minister that it is important that we ratify the Paris Agreement, that it is important that we show that we actually support the agreement that we were fortunately reached in December last year, and it is of course also important that this happens without being some of those who are dragging the pace out of the process. Therefore, it is a good signal for us that Denmark is among the first. I would also like to say that I hear the Minister give an assurance here that we can also talk about the timetable in committee, that we can become even more specific as to how the government imagines that we can make a ratification process as soon as possible. There I would like to take the Minister at his word and say that we would like to contribute to that and that, as it were, we are trying to seek broad support in the Folketing for a concrete timetable for how we can ensure that Denmark is among the first to ratify if we do not get to be the first country to ratify. Then I also welcome the fact that the Minister has already said in his speech here that it is important to put pressure within the European Union, that it is important that we, as a country which wholeheartedly supports the agreement and which welcomes it, also help to push within the EU negotiations. I very much agree with the Minister that it would also be a very good idea to put pressure on the European Union, on what is actually the European Union's timetable, so that some of the countries which, unfortunately, we are a little stuck in the brake in the European Union are also put under concrete pressure. All in all, then, an agreement with the alternative that we should take the lead, and a thank you for the Minister also sending out the signal, and then a reception of the extended hand that we, together in the committee work, will be working on and discussing the concrete timetable that the government envisages for this. In any case, we will support the fact that we are doing this in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517201918	Sir. Christian Poll, the alternative, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517201922	Many thanks to the rapporteur for a lot of good words about the importance of sending a signal, and I think that is one of the things that is really important. Five months have passed since the Paris agreement, and there is such a vacuum. What is important right now is to send out this clear signal that we are going to do it once and that we are doing it as quickly as possible. Does the rapporteur not agree that it could actually strengthen the process if a timetable for this work does not just come from the minister, from the ministry, but is something that is being worked out in cooperation in the committee so that we get the whole parliament behind this important process?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517202002	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517202004	Firstly, I very much agree that there are many signals at stake here, but in fact I hear the Minister too that the Minister would like to present how the government imagines this and then launch a discussion with the committee. I am in complete agreement with Mr Seligman. Christian Poll i. It will, of course, strengthen the signal coming from Denmark if it is a broad majority in the Folketing and not just the government that has said that this is a sensible timetable, which moreover ensures that Denmark ratifys this agreement as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517202035	I would like to thank the Social Democrat rapporteur, and then it is Mr. Mikkel Dencker, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517202047	As has already been mentioned both by the previous rapporteur and by the Minister, this international climate agreement was concluded in Paris back in December 2015. It is an agreement in which almost all the countries of the world are involved, and in this way it is a great step forward compared to the past, where the green transition and reduction of CO2 in December, with the agreement in December, almost all the countries of the world, have taken part in the agreement and thus committed themselves to taking part in the task and thereby taking on a fair share of the task and a fair share of the burden. We in the Danish People's Party see this as a step forward. After all, this is an agreement that the government has already signed, as the Minister said a month ago, and it is, of course, also an agreement that must be ratified by the Folketing. The purpose of the resolution is then to oblige the government to do so as soon as possible. The Minister has stated here ten minutes ago that the government will do the same, so in the Danish People's Party we see no reason why we should then also impose it on the government by adopting a resolution. We are confident that when the Minister has said that he will do so, it will also happen, and therefore there is no reason for us to vote on it. So we reject the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517202226	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517202229	Thank you. The fact is that if we wait until after the summer break, we will actually be back in October before we really start, because that is where the Folketing opens again. Why not make it clear today that we are ready, thereby putting pressure on the more foot-to-mouthing countries of the European Union and elsewhere which might use the ratification process as a bargaining object, a threat to burden sharing. Wouldn't it be smart to make a clear announcement today, which says that of course we do it as soon as possible in Denmark, and now we do it in common throughout the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517202309	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517202311	That's what Mr. Christian Poll is in the process of launching a competition for who can ratify the agreement as soon as possible. It is a purely symbolic act that will have no effect in reality. We have just heard the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate say that the government will ratify the agreement as soon as possible, and we are confident that it will then be the autumn that it will be as soon as possible. So we stick to the fact that this is the right way to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517202345	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517202347	But if it is not until autumn as soon as possible, and we start the process, we can risk getting into 2017 if there is some talk about it. What could be strong and why we are retaining this motion for a resolution is that it could be a fantastic announcement to come from a united Parliament, because it is only the Minister himself who says that it is happening as soon as possible at the government's own pace. So couldn't it be a good idea to make this broad statement, which says that now we're getting started, and we're all serious about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517202422	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517202424	That is what we are saying here in the Danish Parliament today, I suppose, but I am only the second rapporteur. However, I think that it will be a very broad majority who will announce in this Chamber that we want the rate of implementation with which the government has also agreed, so that is one thing to say. However, in the Danish People's Party we do not think there is any reason to enter into a competition with other EU countries about who can do this as soon as possible. As I said before, this is a purely symbolic act which has no practical significance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517202459	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Thomas Danielsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517202509	Thank you for that, President. We are now debating motion for a resolution No. B-96 on Denmark's ratification of the Paris Agreement, which has been put forward by the Alternative. I should like to start by making it clear that the Left would very much like to discuss this further in committee with both the Minister and the other Members. Specifically, the Alternative recommends that Denmark ratify the International Climate Agreement concluded in Paris in connection with COP21 as soon as possible. They do so on behalf of a country which, fortunately, is a pioneering country, and fortunately the government has already announced a clear timetable for Danish ratification. That is why, as I said, I am looking forward to working on the concrete timetable in cooperation with the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517202618	Then it's mr. Christian Poll. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517202620	Thank you. The rapporteur now mentions the wording of a clear timetable. It may well be that the rapporteur has heard of a more detailed timetable. I have only heard that this will happen after the summer holidays, and under the auspices of the Parliament that means October. And how long does the process last? We don't know. I shall see that as not the fastest possible. Would it not be strong that, in order to stress that the process is important, it is not just the government, but a united Parliament that could announce today that we think it is important, and that is why we all believe that we should do so as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517202703	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517202705	In fact, I have not heard parties saying that the Paris Agreement is a bad deal. On the contrary, I have heard only parties saying that it is either a good agreement or a very good agreement. This means that those who have negotiated on behalf of Denmark and on behalf of the European Union have done the right thing. This does not really mean that there is the big dispute in this proposal. After all, we agree that this is a good agreement and we agree that those who have negotiated on behalf of Denmark and the European Union have done the right thing. It is therefore possible that it will be a little a debate on whether it is in one month or in the other month that we will then carry out official ratification. But I do not see that there is any doubt that this is a common position on the part of the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517202758	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517202807	Thank you. After all, we are in a good situation where there is a broad consensus that the climate agreement must be ratified as soon as possible, and we also believe that in the Enhedslisten. We look forward to a committee work in which we may be able to clarify what is really the playing field; whether there is anything that can help us to get started more quickly. As a starting point, the Enhedslisten supports the proposal, but we look forward to hearing whether there are some things that can be done politically to speed up ratification in Denmark. It is always a pity, then, when you are told in some comments on the proposal that this happens after the summer holiday, and then you have to wait for the well-deserved 4 months of summer holiday to be over so that you can start it in the autumn of October. I think it is a pity that we cannot act more quickly on the proposal here. I think that this proposal should also be seen in the light of the fact that the Minister is now saying that it is something that should be built on the existing energy policy in Denmark. However, recent experience has shown that the government is planning not to comply with the energy reconciliation that we agreed to in 2012. You go out and report that there is something that you want to postpone or not implement at all, despite the fact that there are very clear agreements on what the energy agreement says. In the past, coastal mills have been adjusted, and we have made an adjustment quite recently and thus determined on a concrete implementation and a timetable, in order to get the supply for the 360 MW coastal mills implemented. Then we find that the government's wounds doubt what is the Danish energy policy, and so doubt what kind of CO2 it is and then we have to deal with something that is a Paris agreement and where again there is a long way to go about doing good deeds in a few years' time. So, in view of what has been the government's announcements lately, one may well be very concerned about what is the intention of not ratifying the Paris Agreement as soon as possible. We would very much like to see increased efforts being made more quickly for sustainable conversion, and if the Paris Agreement and its implementation can be done in a way that will enable us to move forward in the driver's field, then the Enhedslisten is fully involved. So we support the intentions of the proposal and we look forward to having this committee dealt with, which I hope will be able to clarify what options there are.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517203051	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next speaker is Mr. Villum Christensen as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517203101	Thank you, sir. President. We have in various ways gained the impression in here that the alternative wants to pursue policy in a new way. Maybe it's an alternative way. It is not because we cannot welcome the fact that we sometimes look at ourselves in the mirror and ask whether political work cannot now be made a little more constructive and a little more sensible. So far, so good. However, that we must now also see that the alternative wants us to spend time discussing whether Denmark should ratify as soon as possible rather than as soon as possible, as the government calls it, does not seem to me to be constructive and sensible. At best, it's alternative. As you know, we have a great many resolutions this month. But the fact that we must also devote time to this kind of word clipping, which has absolutely no practical significance, as the Minister has already explained, is almost inconvenient. That is why I shall be brief. It's a waste of time. We are voting against this proposal. And then let's move on. We have a lot of cultural challenges with immigrants, we have growth challenges with economies that have stalled, we have enough to deal with. However, I do not think we should discuss a timetable for something that, by the way, cannot take effect until 2020. That is why we do not want to support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517203234	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. The next speaker is Mr. Johannes Lebech as rapporteur for the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517203241	The Radical Left also believes that it is important that the Paris Agreement be ratified as soon as possible so that it can enter into force legally once 55 countries have ratified it. We will probably really wait for the whole of the European Union to ratify together, but we nevertheless consider it essential that the Danish Government initiates it as soon as possible or as soon as possible, let it be whether it is one form or another. The Danish People's Party talked about this being a symbolic act. Yes, it will probably be a symbolic act. It can also be said that the discussion may not be the most important thing on earth, yet it sends a very important signal to both the EU system and the UN that Denmark takes its international climate commitments seriously and wants to be at the forefront. Well, part of this is that we want to be in the front line. Nor can it be completely ignored that it is purely national important that we ratify quickly, that we keep up popular support for climate change adaptation and the fight against climate change, so that we also make this a public issue. It may actually mean something that we are out early and one of the countries that first ratify. Finally, it seems that we are being overtaken by the government in this matter. At least I thought so for a moment last night. The Prime Minister has been to Washington, and besides being very funny at various dinners, he and the Nordic ministers have committed Denmark to ratify as soon as possible. In fact, the Washington Final Declaration states: The leaders commit to join the Paris Agreement as soon as possible. I don't know how to translate it... whether it's soon or fastest... but even the Prime Minister says so. So shouldn't it be home? We also support the proposal that this should be done as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517203430	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517203438	Thank you. Thank you very much for your support for the proposal. I hope that today we can decide that Denmark ratifys as soon as possible and that it is not just the government but a broad majority in the Folketing that does so. The fact is that, unfortunately, it seems that the European Union can all be delayed and will not ratify before 2018, which is why we are currently wondering what can happen if the agreement comes into force before the European Union has ratified it. In this situation, the European Union will simply be an observer and the other countries will have to be formally allowed to lay down all the rules needed to implement the Paris Agreement. Is it not important that we give a clear signal, for example? Today that we want to do this, that we start and that we do it as quickly as possible and therefore have a timetable set in a comprehensive Parliament in the work of the committee?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517203538	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517203540	I fully agree that it is important that we send out clear signals. The discussion today is an attempt to send a clear signal to the government, which has apparently already seen it when they go out into the big world and say the same thing as we say today. Then it is important that we send a clear signal to the European Union. Allow me not to share with the author's fears that the European Union will not have this implemented. Let us hope that all the Member States ratify quickly so that the European Union can prove to be at the forefront of climate change as well. I myself was the climate rapporteur in the European Parliament, and I actually sensed that there was a feeling that the European Union was on the front, too, in the climate area. So let us be optimistic about this and push a little optimism with a proposal that the alternative has made here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517203629	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Mette Abildgaard as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517203641	Thank you. If I had a fundamental mistrust that the government would not ratify the Paris Agreement as soon as possible, I would support the resolution before us today. But when I look at the statements that have come from both the Minister for Climate, Energy and Building and our Prime Minister, I do not actually see what that distrust should be justified on. Of course, there are elements at home in the energy policy debate on which we can disagree and on which we can so much discuss so that it goes without saying, but I find it hard to see why it should not be in the Government's interest to get this ratification through as quickly as possible, since that is what has been said. Whether it is as soon as possible or as soon as possible, or what has been of different wordings, I do not think it will recover as closely as possible. I simply do not see that it would be in the interest of the government to delay this. Then there's this whole debate about getting first. There could be a statement in there. To this I would just like to say that if it is France that comes first I do not know whether they have already ratified; I only have that from today's debate I would actually think it is quite appropriate, because it was their diplomacy and skilled craftsmanship that was very much responsible for the fact that we got this agreement at all. So that way, I actually think it would be quite fair. I don't care if you're no more. Two, three, four or five, there may be a bit of signal value i. I recognize that. That's why I think we should get started and beyond the steppes. However, I do not think it matters any more. However, I am confident that the government will press for this ratification to take place as soon as possible. That is also a conservative wish. I will therefore closely monitor the government's plans in this area, but, as I have said, I have nothing to justify my distrust with, and that is why we do not support the proposal, but I hope that you can land it in committee with something that you can meet on and that it is not something that you have to vote on.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517203853	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Johannes Lebech, Radical Left, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517203857	Does the rapporteur not think that the fact that we support the proposal and will warm up a little at the speed of the government does not need to be distrustful, but rather an attempt to give it some gas, because this is a matter on which we are committed?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517203910	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517203911	I really think that when a Danish minister is also sent to a climate summit to fight there, it is actually not the right way to do it that he should be required by a single party in the Folketing to ensure rapid ratification. In fact, I think it is something that we in the Danish Parliament should be involved in. I do not think that the right way to ratify such an agreement is through a motion for a resolution in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517203935	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517203937	If it is a broad motion for a resolution, then it would be the whole parliament that is behind it. At least that's in the spirit that I perceive it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517203943	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517203945	But I see no reason to oblige the government to do something that the government has already said they are going to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517203952	Next question, sir. Christian Poll, the alternative, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517203954	Thank you. After all, the United States and China have also announced that they expect to ratify the agreement very soon before the G20 Summit in September, and the United States before the UN General Assembly, which is also in September, and these are two very large states. It is just to say that we can feel a certain amount of pressure from the big country and that we can also sense that there may be countries in the European Union that are trying to stall this. That is why we are making this proposal today, which is trying to create a common ownership in the Folketing, so that it is not just the government at its own pace and at its discretion, but the whole parliament, which can put together a unified, common plan for how to ratify this very important agreement now. Wouldn't it make sense to see it that way?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517204055	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517204056	I recognise that there are countries in the European Union that may be interested in delaying this process and that we are hardly going before the Americans and the Chinese. And we must also note that it is actually positive that we are in a situation where we have to compete. I don't think many people have seen that coming. But I do not think that Denmark is one of the countries that has an interest in delaying this. After all, Denmark is still away from one of the ambitious countries in a European context. So I don't have that concern. With regard to the joint ownership of ratification, I can follow the authors of the motion for a resolution, which is why I can also follow the good idea that I know lies behind this motion for a resolution. And I think it is a good thing if we in the committee can in some way ask how we can get involved in this ratification process, because that is something that is very dear to all of us. So I think it is quite fine if we can ask about it during the committee procedure. I just don't think you get ownership by imposing on the government something they've already reported out they'd do.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517204155	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. I now give the floor to the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Christian Poll from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517204208	Thank you. I would like to be quite honest and say that I was in seven minds and did not know whether it was a good idea to carry out this debate in the Chamber today or to withdraw the proposal. I have been thinking a little one way and a little the other way, I know we are busy at the moment, and I myself am time and time again long evenings in this Chamber. But this matter is so important because it is about one of the biggest agreements in history, which came into place in December, and now five months have passed without us having heard from the government what the plan was about ratification. That is why we put forward the proposal, and perhaps also a little for this reason last week we received a message from the government that it will be ratified as soon as possible. I'm not gonna be able to say that. But now we've got the message, and it's really positive, and I'm really glad about it. After all, if we have maintained to deal with the proposal today, it is because we think it is so important an agreement that it would be fantastic if you could have a common ownership of the ratification process in the Folketing, so that it is not just the government's own track that is run according to the government's wishes, but so that it becomes a common process, which all of Denmark is behind, because the whole parliament could be behind it. That is simply why we have chosen to conduct the negotiations today. It is important for us that we have a clear timetable and not just a plan to do so as soon as possible and we start immediately after the summer break because, as I said, it is not until October. And then what happens from October, how many rounds do you have to go through, what is there of legal steps and political steps etc. before this can fall into place? It may then take so long for us to complete the process, but it would be very good to have openness for that, and I hope we can do that in committee. That is why my wish and my dream today was that we could state clearly that a united Parliament, all of Denmark, is behind ratification by Denmark. What is the danger, yes, yes, you can say that some countries can come first, and it is not because I want to make a race, but what is the real danger signals is that there are some countries in the European Union that will try to pull the process and that there are some countries that might even use this process as a sort of negotiating object in the forthcoming negotiations on burden sharing. So thank you for a lot of positive announcements that this is an important process. At any rate, I have been confirmed in the fact that the whole of the Folketing considers this to be a very important agreement and that, of course, we must start the ratification process now.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517204515	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517204529	The debate is open. I give the floor to the Minister of Energy, Supply and Climate, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517204551	Thank you, Mr President. And thank you for the proposal from the Radical Left. With their proposals, the Radical Left wishes to promote the installation of large heat pumps and to limit the expansion of biomass boilers. According to the proposal, by 1 November of this year the government is to submit a draft law on the promotion of heat pumps. It is also clear from the proposal that the Folketing attaches importance to ensuring that the green conversion takes place as efficiently as possible. I am pleased that we basically agree that we must carry out the green transition economically effectively. It is the Government's ambition in the field of energy that Denmark should become independent of fossil fuels by 2050. With the 2012 Energy Agreement, which was concluded by a broad circle of parties, Denmark has come some way towards independence from fossil fuels. At the same time, it is an important premise for the government that the green transition is precisely cost-effective. That is what we in the government call green realism. The conversion must not be unnecessarily expensive for business and ordinary citizens. The government wants to integrate renewable electricity production into district heating. It is a way to exploit the increasing share of the renewable current in the Danish electricity system. Increased electricity in the district heating sector can have a major impact on cost-effective energy conversion. It's a natural part of a smart energy system. The Government therefore supports the spread of heat pumps. With the approval of the conciliation circle in connection with the implementation of the energy reserve in December 2015, funds were allocated to the Danish Energy Agency's travel team for large heat pumps. The travel team is working to promote large electric heat pumps. One of the most important tasks of the travel team is to help the heating plants clarify whether heat pumps can help achieve a lower heat price. The government has put forward a proposal for a solution to our PESO challenge by moving over a four-year period the funding of the PSO support away from the electricity price and into the Finance Act. This proposal will in itself make it more profitable to use large heat pumps in the heat supply. It is the assessment that when the PSO cost is removed, the heat pumps are strengthened in competition in competition with a chips-fired heating plant. The discussions on the energy savings obligations of the energy companies have also put forward a proposal that energy saving by using a heat pump can be counted on. That is why I believe that heat pumps can be a real alternative for the many cogeneration plants that will have to invest in the coming years. The Government has already presented concrete initiatives to promote heat pumps. The proposal we are debating today also concerns the use of biomass. Let me make it clear that biomass plays a crucial role in some of the smallest decentralised district heating plants. Thus, a decision has been taken in the broad circle of parties behind the energy conciliation to allow the 85 most expensive heating plants to set up a biomass boiler. This gives the works an opportunity to lower the high heat prices. At the same time, it provides a limited expansion of biomass combustion, as only 85 named smaller plants have been authorised. This is not a massive conversion wave, but an aid to the heat consumers at the highest prices. There was also agreement in the energy conciliation circle to promote greater biomass conversion in the large cogeneration plants. Many central plants therefore replace coal with biomass in these years, and this will be a sustainable biomass, as an industry agreement has been established that provides the most ambitious sustainability requirements in the European Union. Surely it is only good that we are thus paving the way for an energy system that is independent of fossil fuels. The government is carrying out a number of analyses of the future framework for the district heating sector. One of the key analyses is the tax and subsidy analysis, which will help shed light on the need for adjustments in this area. The analysis takes time, even more time than expected, when the work was started by the former government. The government focuses on the analysis, but we will not rush it, as it is important that the analysis is thorough and complete. In addition, there are analyses that look more specifically at the future framework conditions for the district heating sector, including opportunities to promote the use of large heat pumps and the framework for the use of biomass. Some key issues that need to be clarified before we start to change the system are: Is there a need to adjust the charges, even after the government's new spring proposals? What possible models are there to loosen on the bindings that cogeneration plants are subject to today in relation to cogeneration requirements and fuels? And what are the consequences for heat consumers? In short, these are very wide-ranging and complex issues. I agree with the Radical Left that it is a good idea to promote the use of heat pumps for district heating. As has already been said, the government has already put forward concrete proposals to promote large heat pumps, and so the motion for a resolution is superfluous on this point. Nor can the government support the decision on the future use of biomass on an imperfect basis, and therefore cannot support the resolution on this point either. On the other hand, the government is looking forward to future constructive discussions in this area, including with the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517205141	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517205148	Well, you can wait for a lot of things, and we have been waiting for this tax analysis for a very long time. Thank you for the Minister's statement on the credit card charges. I think there was a single part of the story that the Minister did not take along. Now the Minister stressed that the large heat pumps were being promoted when the energy reserve was being implemented and the travel team could continue, and this happened a few months after the Finance Act had abolished the subsidy for exactly the same thing. I would like to know whether it is not true that what the Minister highlighted as a good deed when we implemented the energy reserve was something that was taken out when the government was involved in presenting the Finance Act and adopting the Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517205235	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517205236	That is absolutely correct. It was so that there was a gap in the Finance Act that there was an economic challenge. It had to be resolved, everyone had to bear with it, so that the necessary money was obtained to balance the Danish economy. And that is why I was very pleased that, in broad agreement, including with the support of the Enhedslisten, we could find a solution around the travel team for the large heat pumps.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517205301	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517205303	Thank you, then we agree on the storywriting as maybe one of the few things. I think it is rather a pity that the Minister rejects the proposals of the Radicals, because I think it is very balanced. And it points out two things: that you cannot go on driving as it is currently going out there in the field of biomass, and that you need to find a way to promote the large heat pumps. And I cannot really understand why the Minister is so opposed to the proposal today, because before this is dealt with in the second and third reading, these tax analyses have come to the surface, and then we can see the big picture.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517205341	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517205343	In other words, I am not opposed to discussing how we promote large heat pumps. However, I note that a number of initiatives are being taken. Moving the PSO to the Finance Act makes electricity to the large heat pumps cheaper, and thus there will also be a better economy in operating the plants. In addition, the travel team, and on top of that, it is also proposed to the energy companies that this can be included in the energy savings.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517205413	Thank you, Minister. The next speaker is Mr. Jens Joel as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517205424	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the Radicals for this motion for a resolution. On the part of the Social Democrats, we very much agree that this would be a sensible way to go. I think there is a relatively broad consensus in the Folketing that we need to get the large heat pumps into our energy system. I also think that when the Radicals have tabled this proposal, perhaps it is a matter of thinking that things are a little urgent and that there has been a little too much talk and a little too little action. And then I agree with Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, who pointed out that the action taken by the government has sometimes been a step backwards, since the Finance Act abolished part of the funding for the large heat pumps. The fact that we have been able to patch gaps along the way by making some other agreements does not solve the basic challenge here, which is that we need the heat pumps in our system if we are to make better use of our wind power. We need to ensure that there is an environmentally sustainable balance in how much biomass is being converted to. For just as it is positive that there are some special plants that can lower their heat price by converting to biomass, and that there may be some large plants that convert to biomass, we must also be careful that we do not get too much conversion to biomass in relation to what we can deliver sustainably. Last but not least, it will also be a problem at some point in the red building in the Ministry of Finance, because there is no tax on biomass and it will therefore make a hole in the treasury if we do not do something about this. One might also say that we are approaching a deadline, as long as we are out in the District of Denmark, you see that the basic amount will disappear and that you will therefore have to raise the heat price in some places if you cannot do anything else. If we are to avoid the higher price of heat, we may be forced to convert to biomass, perhaps even more than we should have done, and in this respect it would have been a better case with heat pumps. So I think there is a need, and I also understand the impatience there is. I would actually like to call on the Social Democrats in the first place for us to have a discussion in committee, in the conciliation circle, and to try to put in place a plan for how we deal with this, both the deadline we have, in relation to the disappearance of the basic amount, and we can say the deadline we have, in relation to not having too many people converting to biomass before we have the rules that they have to invest in. Because the truth is that when you sit out on the local work and have to make a decision, you have to look at the rules that apply today, and I understand that many people are looking towards biomass in the coming years. Of course, we also have to act on this in good time from here and from the Folketing. That is why the Social Democrats will support the fact that we are having a debate both in committee and in the conciliation circle, and that we will have a plan to ensure that we do not get out of the gaps too late, and that we will, moreover, have this too much conversion stopped, and that instead of using biomass where it is most socially useful in the works we have already decided to have it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517205750	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. The next person to take the platform is Mr. Mikkel Dencker as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517205806	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to acknowledge the issue raised by the Radical Left with the motion for a resolution here. Indeed, there is the problem that there is an unequal competitive relationship between electricity and biomass as a fuel because biomass, unlike electricity, is exempt. After all, electricity is subject to quite a lot of taxes. This means that electricity can be run out by biomass as a fuel, and that in itself is not a big problem. However, as the previous rapporteur said, it risks leaving a hole in the treasury because biomass does not deliver any tax dollars to the Treasury. In this way, we risk either having to raise another tax or tax or saving on welfare because of the gap that arises. We do not want that in the Danish People's Party. We recognise that there is a problem here. I would also like to say that the government has already put forward a proposal here last week to phase out the PSO tax. It is not to say how this is going to end, but if one assumes that the PSP will be abolished in favour of another financing model for the green conversion, then we have just a suggestion on how to promote the use of the large heat pumps in the district heating supply, precisely because electricity will be considerably cheaper if the PSP is phased out. And there perhaps we have answered the question raised by the Radical Left with the motion for a resolution here. The Minister also mentioned a moment ago that we are still waiting for this tax and subsidy analysis to shed light on the problems we are facing, because it is a very complicated system that we have screwed up in Denmark. There are taxes and subsidies that draw in different directions and may overlap and even out, but the analysis must at least show which things in the system are problematic and can be improved. So in this way there is an analysis work which has not yet been completed and which may also be able to provide an answer to some of what the Radical Left is calling for with the resolution here. I would say in this way that the Danish People's Party recognises the issue that the Radical Left is addressing here. However, we think that we should wait for the two analysis processes that are in progress in relation to the government's PESO proposal before we will conclude whether there are grounds for other measures. That is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution here, which requires the government to take further initiatives, because we want to see where the initiatives that have already been taken are leading.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517210123	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Thomas Danielsen, rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517210144	Thank you for that, President. I was waiting for some questions from the Chamber which remained unanswered. However, in connection with the discussion of the Radical Left's motion for a resolution, B 147, on the promotion of heat pumps and the reduction of biomass, I can say first of all that the Left intends to vote against the proposal. I can begin by saying that we in the Left attach importance to the fact that the green transition is taking place as efficiently as possible. And I am glad that the Radical Left agrees with this resolution. The Left works to secure citizens and businesses as low energy prices as possible. It must be cheaper and not more expensive to be a Dane. The Left also supports the spread of heat pumps and we have already taken initiatives to promote the use of heat pumps. Last Friday, the government presented a proposal to solve the PESO challenge by moving the funding of the PRS support away from the price and into the Finance Act over a four-year period. That proposal in itself means that it will be cheaper to use large heat pumps in the heat supply. In addition, the government is also working to ensure that heat pumps can be included in the energy companies' savings obligations. The government is carrying out analyses, such as: We in the Left do not believe that we should take further decisions in this area until the results of the analyses are available. We do not want to make decisions without the professional basis in place. The Left therefore does not support the proposal, as the government is already promoting the use of heat pumps, as I have described in my speech. Furthermore, we in the Left cannot support the proposal by the Radicals to limit the use of biomass. Left will not fight against the use of CO2 Biomass is important for our supply sector and to keep heat prices down. Against this background, I should like to inform you that, as I said, the Left is voting against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517210415	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Johannes Lebech, Radicals. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517210420	Does the rapporteur for the Left not see a problem at all in the fact that there appear to be many small cogeneration plants investing in biomass • an investment which may prove unreasonable in the long term, given that it would be much better to switch to heat pumps, perhaps even in the light of the initiatives that the government has now taken?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517210441	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517210443	Yes, but that is also why I am delighted that the government is taking these initiatives to promote the use of heat pumps. If you look at what the effect is by just removing the PSP, which you have reported out here last week that you intend to do, then an electric heat pump will actually be able to compete with a chips-fired heat pump at least in some cases. So this is a major step towards increasing the use of heat pumps.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517210522	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517210524	I am pleased that the rapporteur and the Left are in favour of the use of heat pumps, but what I asked was also the concern about misinvestment in the long-term use of biomass.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517210535	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517210537	We share that concern in the Left, of course, because it is not appropriate to invest in something that we do not intend to use in the future. But it is not the case that we in the Left say that biomass should not be used as part of the supply sector in the future. As a general rule, no matter what technology we are talking about, it is of course not appropriate to use a technology that we do not intend to use. However, I have to say that this issue of making individual proposals, as in this case, where you go in specifically and say that this is now what you want to promote, is not appropriate either, because we fear a zigzag course that is not appropriate and stable for the sector forward-looking.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517210624	The next question is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517210628	When the Left stands still, there is certainly no zigzag course. While we are waiting for these analyses, I can recommend to the rapporteur that he read the Climate Council's last report on the role of biomass in the energy supply: "The current development therefore means that parts of the energy system are locked in a technology that is not socio-economically appropriate for a period of time. These conditions advocate adapting the regulation so that it reflects the real climate load of biomass: real climate load • and then biomass is not favoured by the charging system. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur recognises that biomass is not CO2 2 When you read the Climate Council report, it is a misinterpreting of biomass to consider it as CO2 Does the rapporteur agree with that recital?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517210727	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517210729	After all, I do not know all the details of the recommendations of the opposition Climate Council, but at least I think I can remember that it has indicated that biomass will play an important role in the supply of the future. So even the Climate Council, to which the rapporteur referred, also recognises that whatever we do, biomass will play an important role in the supply of the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517210800	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517210802	If you then read a little further in the Climate Council statistics, you can see that we actually have a problem with imported wood pellets being a larger and larger part of our energy supply in Denmark. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur believes that the continued increase in imports of biomass, which then displaces gas and which leads to a gap in the treasury at some point, is a lasting solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517210824	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517210826	Well, now I don't know if it's a joke that I have to be heard in the Climate Council's statistics from the platform, but I can at least tell you that I don't know them in my head. However, in relation to the issue, namely whether we in the Left call it sustainable, I am at least delighted that the power plants or heating plants we are talking about have entered into a voluntary agreement on the purchase of sustainable biomass. So at that suggestion, yes, biomass is also sustainable.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517210857	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next honored speaker is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517210903	I have to say that in the last speech by the rapporteur of the Left, the rapporteur managed to avoid talking about and start talking about sustainable biomass. It is clear that there is some biomass that is more straining than anything else, but it can only be seen that biomass is not CO2 There is fuss with the statistics if statistics continue to be produced in this way. From this point of view, I find it really liberating that the Radical Left has tabled this motion for a resolution. I am glad that the Radicals are just as impatient as the Enhedslisten after something more has to happen. We thus have sufficient knowledge that shows that there is a lack of taxes on biomass and measures to promote more electricity and more intelligent use of wind power into our district heating system, so that the Danes get more out of the PRS taxes they pay. It would be a huge advantage for the Danes if the renewable energy produced in Denmark were used optimally in Denmark. And instead of exporting cheap power at some times, getting that electricity into our district heating system at the right times would make it more social gain, thus crowding out some of the imported biomass. I think the Radical Left's proposal is very sympathetic. I do not know what can come out of a committee procedure, but one can always hope that more parties will realise that a good proposal has been put forward, and Enhedslisten can fully support Radicale's proposal to promote heat pumps and to find incentives to reduce the expansion of biomass boilers. It is extremely unfortunate if a number of small heating plants in Denmark get the wrong investments made, because it will be investments that district heating consumers will have to pay for the next 10-15-20 years. Thank you for the good suggestion.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517211110	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Villum Christensen as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517211118	If you take the title of this resolution, which is called a resolution to promote heat pumps and reduce biomass, then we in the Liberal Alliance think that there could be very good music in it. For it seems really molboyish to first spend a very large billions on producing wind power and then send close to half to Norway and Sweden at a low price, because we cannot use it when the wind blows, while at the same time converting billions into biomass in our heating plants. It is then to feel biomass that is often imported from abroad in the form of wood pellets from the other side of the globe. And that is what we call sustainable • well enough under different conditions, but bottom line is that we are preventing ourselves from using heat pumps so that we could use the profit wind we have produced with billions of subsidies. This is because there are no taxes on biofuels, but high taxes on electricity that have to draw these heat pumps. So far, so good. All this was reinforced by the removal, if you like, of the security of supply tax or the burning tax a few years ago, so that there was a huge imbalance in the various technology choices. In other words, we are not investing in biofuels for billions of dollars, because it is sensible, but only because the tax structure says so. And that's crazy. As I have mentioned a few times here from the platform, I think there are many problems in investing unequivocally on biomass, which can indirectly cause a lot of problems on the environment and food supply in the world. If we do not just say 'go' to the proposal as it stands here, it is, of course, because the government has already made a very drastic change to the PRS funding, which means that electricity for heat pumps will be significantly cheaper, so it can be said that the government is already on the way with some kind of problem-solving. Conversely, we also take the view in principle that it should not be the tax and subsidy screws that should determine our investment choices. No, all sustainable technologies must be able to compete on equal terms, and therefore we do not want to have to unilaterally increase taxes on biomass. We must rethink this kind of energy policy. We have to get away from the planned economic regime, so we would like to try to find some new bids in a report dealing with this problem which we think is serious. I would like to say this to the Radicals: it is a serious problem, and it is quite evident that there is a distortion. But we have to do it in a way that does not make us energy-economic tasters, if you can put it that way. It's never gonna work because the technology will always overtake the politicians inside. For these reasons, we may be inclined to vote yellow, as the proposal has just been formulated, but we are happy to enter into discussions on changes in the unbalanced tax structure, which is going crazy to such an extent.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517211440	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. The next speaker is Mr. Christian Poll as rapporteur for the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517211447	Thank you. This proposal by the Radical Left is extremely important. It is because we are in a situation right now where the lack of taxes on biomass makes it inappropriate to invest in relation to an energy system that is electricity-based and that we are building for a future renewable energy system. At the same time, the proposal also contains heat pumps, that is to say, support for technologies that can use our electricity better and store our electricity, and I am sure that there are a lot of parties that actually want this right now. The question is how we do it. From the alternative, there's full support for this. It's not a question of making hoovesa solutions. It is a question of this distortion which is precisely between the electricity tax and the lack of biomass tax. This is the biggest problem, the most current problem we have in relation to the conversion of the energy system at the moment. That is what researchers say, the organisations working on it say, so I have no doubt that this is a very important proposal and we support it on the part of the Alternative. Then just remember to say for the previous motion for a resolution, B 96, that the SF supports it. I didn't get to say that in the last round. That's it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517211625	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Abildgaard as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517211644	Sorry, I wasn't quite aware that the Radical Left is, of course, the proposer of this proposal. After all, this motion for a resolution requires the government to put forward a legislative proposal by 1 November 2016 to ensure that the expansion of biomass boilers we are looking at in decentralised plants is limited and that instead the incentive to install large heat pumps is encouraged. At one time electricity was associated with something negative and harmful - we remember all these campaigns - and it is still the case that there should be no unnecessary consumption, but we see today, it has to be said, quite different possibilities of using electricity, especially when it is transformed into our heating system via heat pumps, but also when it is transformed into, for example, cars via electric cars. However, the problem is that far more taxes are being imposed on electricity for heat production than on biomass. This means that decentralised plants do not invest sufficiently in heat pumps. So it has to be said about biomass that there is just a discussion about CO2 When you import it, there is just a lot of what is not CO2 I know that a certification scheme has been set up on a voluntary basis, and that is also good, but we lack a discussion about the real CO2 of biomass. What I read that the proposers really want is that we send the signal that we are calling for and that we want more heat pumps and less biomass, and I can agree with that. The Conservative People's Party may well agree to send that signal, but it must also be said that biomass cannot be spared in our supply sector today, because it helps to maintain a high level of security of supply. We know this from some of the central plants, but we can therefore agree that we should take incentives to promote the use of electricity. In fact, I think that the Liberal Alliance rapporteur said this very rightly in relation to the incentive structure that exists today. A technology is not chosen because it is the best new technology for one's plant, but because it is the one that is most favoured in terms of subsidies and charges. Are we voting in favour of this resolution? I hope that it will not be put to the vote because then we will vote against it, not because we as such disagree with the elements in it, but because this is something that belongs in our energy conciliation circle where we need to clarify this type of thing. However, I can guarantee the Radical Left that we, the Conservatives, would like to take the initiatives that are possible to promote the use of electricity in the heating sector, because there is a very, very large perspective in that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517211934	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Johannes Lebech, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517211946	Thank you, sir. President. I shall not make a long introduction to this late debate. First of all, this resolution is based on a concern about duality, namely that there was concern about the expansion of biomass in the country's decentralised cogeneration plants and that at the same time it wanted to promote heat pumps. This is a challenge in which I can certainly highlight three reasons. There should be much more electricity in the Danish district heating sector in the future, it should run on surplus winds, as I have also heard virtually all rapporteurs say. It makes the system more sustainable, it makes it cheaper in the long term if we do it the right way, and it makes it more robust. Money is pouring out of the Treasury at this stage with the wrong tax structure, as several rapporteurs have also indicated. Biomass is exempt from tax and has therefore been too profitable and it has certainly been misinvested, and this is a problem which, of course, also needs to be addressed. Everyone knows that this is not sustainable, and in the long term we run the risk of making larger heating bills for Danes, and that is why the way forward must be for us to have heat pumps spread throughout the country's decentralised plants. The reason why we are going to act now is that we are concerned that in the very short term there will be a large expansion of biomass in decentralised plants. That is something all the rapporteurs can see and are aware of, and I would like to thank and acknowledge for a rather positive reception that has been received from all sides. This is a problem that everyone evidently agrees has to be resolved, perhaps with some nuance differences, especially when we start discussing biomass. I can hear that there is a great deal of connection to the use of heat pumps. So I look forward to some good negotiations. It is quite clear that on the part of the Radical Left, we are also prepared to see that there are many ways of doing this. These may be tax reductions, they may be adjustments, as I also heard the Minister suggesting there might be possibility. We have also come into a whole new situation in the energy conciliation circle with the government's new proposals. It is a proposal that came after this proposal was put forward, so I look forward to bringing it to the two co-sponsors who, unfortunately, were not able to be here today for very different reasons. One is on maternity leave, and the other was probably in negotiations on aircraft. I will pass on to them that there are very positive views on this in the conciliation circle. I hope that the Minister of Energy will receive this just as positively. I asked him a question on Thursday, and the next day he accepted me. It was with regard to the Maabjerg Energy Centre, and I hope that it will be the same this evening and that the Minister for Energy will then meet me on this point as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517212244	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517212301	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 19 May 2016. We start with a explanatory statement, and it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, who has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517212333	Thank you very much. Greenland's sea area is 2.1 million. mile2 big. To establish charts in Greenland is therefore a big, but also a necessary task. For lack of charts is so much about lack of safety at sea. In the extreme, missing charts can mean the difference between life and death for Greenlanders and for tourists visiting Greenland. All the indications are that the volume of shipping activities throughout the Arctic region, including in Greenland waters, will increase in the coming years. Temperature increases in the Arctic are happening twice as fast as for the rest of the globe. And a number of scientists now predict that the Arctic Ocean will be completely ice-free in the summer around the year 2050. In Greenland, we have already seen an increase in shipping traffic in our waters over the last 10 years due to an increase in cruise tourism, activities related to the exploration of raw materials and the fact that most of our freight transport is carried out at sea. We have to deal actively with these trends, both in Greenland and in Denmark. Strengthening maritime safety requires a broad focus. It is everything from accurate sea surveying to safe navigation and a well-functioning preparedness that affects the level of safety at sea in Greenland. That is why the Danish state also has a very great responsibility in terms of maritime safety in Greenland. Greenland and Denmark entered into a cooperation agreement in 2009 on the lack of 73 sea surveyings and charts and a good and necessary and ambitious agreement. And this also doubled the annual resources used to draw up charts in Greenland. By 2018, these should have been prepared as paper charts, updated as digital charts for GPS navigation systems and, in the long run, for satellite-based navigation, something that can quickly become very topical if you follow the recommendations of the Taksøe-Jensen report in terms of strengthening maritime safety by using satellites. However, while the activities in Greenland waters are increasing, we are now witnessing the Government's ambition to live up to the Greenlandic-Danish agreement and deliver the vital charts. It just doesn't add up. On behalf of Christian Juhl of Enhedslisten, Magni Arge from Tjóðveldi and my party, Inuit Ataqatigiit, I will therefore look forward to the energy, supply and climate minister's response to the question. On behalf of the Socialists, the Enhedslisten, the Alternative, the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party, Siumut, Inuit Ataqatigiit and Tjóðveldi, I shall read out a proposal for adoption which all the parties support. I should just like to point out to the rapporteur of the questioners that any proposals for adoption cannot be made before we start the debate. This was the justification). Okay.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517212635	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate for reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517212654	Thank you for that, President. I would also like to thank you for the question which I will try to answer in the best possible way in the following. As Members of this House will probably know, the government wants state jobs to be distributed throughout the country. Therefore, the government moves an historically large number of state jobs from the capital to the four other regions of the country. The move is being carried out in order to achieve better balance and development across the country and to ensure state institutions close to citizens and businesses. One of the agencies to move is the Spatial Data Board, which from 1 November 2016 will move to Aalborg. One consequence of this move is unfortunately that the cooperation agreement with Greenland's Self-Government on the restoration and digitisation of charts covering Greenland's south-west coast is delayed. The Co-operation Agreement, concluded between the Ministry of the Environment and self-government in 2009, provides that charts of South West Greenland shall be established, restored and digitised by the end of 2018. Specifically, the agreement concerns a total of 73 charts, of which the Geodata Board has currently produced 32. The Cooperation Agreement is an ambitious and important agreement for Greenland's autonomy and the Danish Government. It is important for me to make it clear that the cooperation agreement only deals with sea charting and not sea surveying. The concept of chart survey has been mentioned several times in this debate, but it is not a correct concept because in the maritime world a sharp distinction is made between sea surveying and charting. Sea surveying is carried out in order to gain knowledge of depth conditions over a sea area. The survey, which is the basis for the charting of the sea, is normally carried out from a ship which collects all information above the depth conditions of a wide belt of the seabed. The chart reproduces all information relevant to navigation in a paper, chart, including the results of the sea survey. The chart will also be published digitally. When the charts are digitized, they can be displayed on electronic navigation systems, and new corrections and information can be implemented easily and easily. The restoration involves digitising and positioning the old charts so that they can be used together with GPS, navigation and new sea surveying. Greenland's sea area is approx. 20 times the sea area of Denmark. It is therefore not possible to cover such an enormous sea area with modern charts at once. It passes approx. 60,000 larger ships pass through Danish waters every year, and by comparison approx. 600 large ships through Greenland waters every year. The cooperation agreement with Greenland's Self-Government is precisely about the restoration and digitisation of the charts of the sea area, which can be sailed half of the year or more, where the majority of all shipping traffic takes place and where the majority of the population lives. The priority of which charts are to be restored first has been achieved in cooperation with the self-government. The Spatial Data Board has published, restored and digitised charts in most of the coastal area that can normally be sailed throughout the year. 32 of the planned 73 charts have been produced, which means that the Spatial Data Board has to produce 41 charts by the end of 2018 in order to comply with the cooperation agreement with Greenland's self-government. In this context, it is important to stress that charts already exist throughout the area covered by the cooperation agreement. However, these charts were produced at a time when there were no good models for mapping the northern latitudes. The old charts can be used for navigation with traditional navigation techniques, but they cannot be used for satellite navigation with GPS, as they are not positioned correctly in relation to the GPS system. Until the charts of these areas are produced, restored and digitized, it is therefore necessary to use the old charts and traditional navigation techniques for sailing. The sea survey of Greenland waters is expected to continue to the same extent as before the relocation of the Spatial Data Board. The same applies to the publication of vital sailing information of importance to shipping in Greenland, which is also not expected to be affected by relocation. Production of charts in Denmark takes place exclusively in the Spatial Data Board. It is a complex work that requires very specific competences, and it takes a long time to train new workers, as this is primarily done by side-by-side training. The Spatial Data Board is working on high pressure to minimise the consequences of the relocation of the production of the new Greenlandic charts, among other things. by continuously hiring new employees and obtaining assistance from the Danish Agency's international sister organisations and maritime partners. But it is the board's assessment that it will be a few years before the new employees can fully manage the production of charts for Greenland, and it is unfortunately inevitable that production will be delayed. The delay is thus not due to a lack of financial resources, but to a large loss of knowledge in connection with the relocation of the Spatial Data Board to Aalborg. Out of 15 employees working with Greenlandic charts in the Spatial Data Board, 12 have currently left their position, and another 2 employees have announced that they do not want to follow Aalborg. At the annual contact committee meeting with representatives from Greenland's Self-Government in December 2015, the Spatial Data Board informed that the proposed relocation to Aalborg could risk influencing the progress of chart production to an extent that could have an impact on the implementation of the cooperation agreement. The self-government was finally informed of the delay at the beginning of April of this year, just as I informed my Greenlandic colleague Knud Kristiansen about the situation on 5 April. It is a great exercise to implement the largest and most ambitious plan of Danish history for the relocation of state jobs, and this will unfortunately affect the operational situation in a number of the governments concerned. We have a strong focus on implementing the relocation of state jobs as efficiently and flexibly as possible. There has been discussion of compensatory measures and possible future deliveries with self-government, and the close dialogue with self-government on any updating of the cooperation agreement continues. It is therefore still too early to say how much production is being delayed, as it is, among other things, too late. depends on the staff situation and ongoing discussions with the self-government on the revision of the Cooperation Agreement. I shall be the first to regret this unfortunate situation and delay, but now it is important to look ahead and find a solution with which Greenland's autonomy and government can be served. I would therefore suggest that the Spatial Data Board and the Greenlandic selfgovernment should be allowed to draw up a revised cooperation agreement which takes into account the implications of the government's plan for the relocation of state jobs and takes the best possible account of the parties involved. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517213437	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We shall now proceed to the debate itself, and the first in the series of speakers is the rapporteur for the authors, Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517213456	Production of the missing charts has for many years been a priority for IA. In Greenland there is a need to measure coastal inner areas; that is where the most sailing takes place. Ship traffic in Greenland waters is expected to increase due to feasibility studies and exploration of raw materials, increasing cruise tourism and the impact of climate change, which makes larger parts of Greenland's waters available. Time-changing digital charts can help to support the development of Greenlandic society. From the IA's side, we wanted Greenlandic companies and Greenlandic employees to be involved, just as we wanted to see a closer cooperation with Asiaq, Greenland's Research. We think it is quite obvious. When you have to process data, everything else will be easier to get a Greenlandic data processor to understand that there is an iceberg in the way of the data field than someone who has been flown up to solve the task. To the extent that the competences exist in Greenland, it makes very good sense to make use of local labour and local companies. Therefore, it is also obvious to ask the Minister whether it will open up the possibility that Greenlandic companies can help to provide data for charts of the Greenlandic coastline. There have been repeated consultations on this subject. The current Left Government has played a very active role as an opposition in ensuring that the agreement on the delivery of the 73 charts is respected. In the face of the National Audit Office, in 2014, the government has maintained its goal as it was a priority area. The National Audit Office has stated that the Minister's work will follow up to the cooperation agreement. We certainly hope so on the part of the IA. Repeatedly, governments have insisted that the charts will be delivered in due course, but now the agreement is under threat. The minister has found that it is not possible to make charts in Greenland on time because of loss of knowledge. How will the Minister ensure the necessary investments and priority resources that will help to produce enough charts of the waters of Greenland that meet the current and growing needs for accurate charts? A recent article in Politiken stated that the relocation of state jobs will affect the cooperation agreement between Greenland and Denmark. In a reply from the Minister to a follow-up question that I have submitted, it appears that 12 out of 15 persons in the Spatial Data Board have terminated their position as a consequence of the relocation of the Spatial Data Board. Can the Minister guarantee that the sea survey and the production of charts of Greenland waters can be completed in 2018 as agreed? And what will the Minister do to ensure this? I don't think I got an answer to that. From a Greenlandic perspective, it is not a question of interfering with the plans for the relocation of state jobs. It is entirely up to the government and the Danish parties in this Chamber. However, it is worrying that you set your own political objectives above the security and protection of your own people, just as it is problematic that Greenland's autonomy was supposedly not informed of the consequences that it has for the cooperation agreement between Greenland and Denmark. It is not reasonable that the Danish Government (1) should not inform Greenland's autonomy of the direct consequences of a political agreement in order to comply with this cooperation agreement and (2) that an agreement has not been reached. On behalf of the Social Democrats, Enhedslisten, Alternativet, Radical Left, Socialist People's Party, Siumut, Inuit Ataqatigiit and Tjóðveldi, I shall make the following: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament instructs the Government to comply with the 2009 agreement between Denmark and Greenland on the measurement and publication of charts for Greenland waters within the agreed timeframe. • V 62)
ParlaMint-DK_20160517213922	Thank you. The proposal for adoption will then be included in the further debate. There are no requests for short remarks, so we thank Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. The next rapporteur is Mrs Karin Gaardsted as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517213945	The sea survey on the west coast of Greenland is as agreed at 4,500 km per day. years. The survey, as we have heard, must lead to the production of new charts to ensure navigation along the west coast of Greenland. Until the relocation of the Spatial Data Board from Copenhagen to Aalborg, the production of charts has taken place at the agreed pace and in the order that everyone considers most appropriate. The agreement was concluded by the VK Government in 2009 with final delivery in 2018. However, on October 9, 2012, Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen, then Minister for the Environment, Ida Auken, for consultation in the Defence Committee on the status of sea surveying in Greenland, where he considered the then Minister for the Environment that the sea survey and the production of charts did not go quickly enough. Sir. Troels Lund Poulsen said during the consultation: Now it is three years since that agreement was made. Really, very much has happened in and around Greenland. There's really, really much going on in these years. Therefore, a well-meaning advice would probably be to look at whether there is a need to do further. Now we are in a situation where the current V government can no longer live up to the promise that all 73 charts must be produced by the end of 2018 because a number of key employees have chosen to leave the Spatial Data Board due to relocation. It is therefore appropriate to put this question to the government and to stress the question of what the government is going to do now. A few years ago, things could not go very fast enough, and today the government is asking for permission to postpone the delivery and even lays the foundations for a completely new agreement with self-government. Will you let it run as well as possible and see how bad it is going to look, or is the government going to look at other solutions? We would like an answer to that today. Safety at sea is entirely dependent on reliable charts to navigate. This applies to interurban and west-coast inland routes, to areas where the sea depth is less than 200 metres and the previous measurement is older. And finally, the fjord with frequent cruises or areas with impending mining. It is expected that ship traffic in Greenland waters will increase both due to cruise tourism and due to increasing raw material activities. This increases the risk of shipping accidents in waters where searching and combating environmental accidents are difficult. If the accident is out, it will undoubtedly cost human lives and have fatal consequences for a very vulnerable environment. And that is what makes the agreement on the production of charts an important agreement between Greenland's self-government and the Danish government. The Socialists believe that the government should be required to ensure that the charts are produced in time, and we can therefore support the proposal for adoption by IA. Then, on behalf of the Alternative and the SF, I should like to say that they also support this proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517214324	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Jeppe Jakobsen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517214333	Thank you for that and thank the rapporteurs for raising this debate. It is important that Denmark live up to the agreements we make. Therefore, it is important to keep the government up to the agreement that has been reached with Greenland. The preparation of charts for Greenland waters is important to ensure safe movement in Greenland waters. Therefore, the Danish People's Party also regrets that it now seems that the timetable cannot be met. Unfortunately, due to an unexpectedly large departure from the Spatial Data Board, it is now no longer possible to comply with the original schedule. We in the Danish People's Party have urged the government to explore all possible ways of maintaining the pace of the drafting of charts. We have called for the use of freelancers and for searching abroad for the necessary competence, which has not led to a solution to the problem. Therefore, the least minor solution to the problem must be that the government goes to Greenlandic selfgovernment and makes a new plan so that, under current conditions, they ensure that the promised charts are drawn up as soon as possible and that the government brings the conditions in the Spatial Data Board back to normal as soon as possible. The work will be followed by the Danish People's Party. Therefore, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, the Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives, I am going to make the following: Proposals for adoption In connection with the relocation of the Spatial Data Board, a unique situation has arisen where only 1 in 15 highly specialised employees have chosen to follow the board to Aalborg. Sea map production is an extremely complex subject area in which employees' competences are usually built up through years of side-by-side training. Therefore, the implementation of the cooperation agreement with Greenland's Self-Government is delayed. The Danish Parliament calls on the Government to continue its efforts to re-establish the competences for the production of Greenlandic charts and to ensure a good dialogue and continued good cooperation with self-government on a revised cooperation agreement on Greenlandic charts by the end of 2016. Furthermore, the Folketing calls on the government to ensure that this particular situation does not constitute a precedent for the future relocation of state jobs. • V 63).
ParlaMint-DK_20160517214604	Thank you. The proposal for adoption will then be included in the further debate. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517214617	It's strange. For the Danish People's Party had actually said that it was behind the tough announcement that the government should get this in place, and you will bend off anyway. I think that's pretty weird. This is such a piece of rubber band that we then get delivered from Dansk Folkeparti instead. What is the reason for this? Why can't we demand of this government that they clean up when they screw up instead of just saying: well, then they have to have some more time? They are the ones who have set the process in motion, perhaps with the help of the Danish People's Party, I know nothing about that. But I think it seems pretty illogical.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517214655	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517214657	I would have liked to have stood on the sharp statement that forced the government to truce. The problem is that there is no way of enforcing this so that chart production can be kept within the promised timeframe. That is simply not possible and, as I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, we have asked about all the possibilities we could think of in terms of where the competences needed to make these charts could be exercised, but none of them are possible. That is why we are also saying that this is the least poor way out of the situation, because it is simply not possible to have these competences.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517214742	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517214744	After all, it has not been very long since these people were quit or quit. I don't know how that happens, but they could be asked if they could give a hand if it was in Copenhagen. You could easily do that and then say: then we're going to go to Copenhagen until we've done this job, and then we're going to pay for it. By the way, all the Greenland rapporteurs have just received a letter from a company which believes they are able to do the job, also within the time frame and at a proper price. Has that company been contacted? I think it seems quite strange that it is more important to move a company than to live up to an agreement that can mean the difference between life and death in the worst possible cases. I think that is quite irresponsible.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517214829	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517214831	I am not sure that moving people back and forth will do anything good, depending on how the situation develops in a single case. I believe that relocation is the right way to go. In the past it has been the case that state jobs have been relocated from the west to the east and, in this respect, removed money from the system without causing any problems. That is why I can understand the surprise that there has been that, now that jobs have been moved from east to west and money has been added to that process, we have not been able to experience problem-free relocations in the same way. This is quite a unique situation we are in here and it is deeply regrettable. As far as this letter to the Greenland rapporteurs is concerned, I have not received it for good reason, so I cannot comment on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517214933	The next question is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517214937	Thank you very much. I am particularly sensitive to the wording of a unique situation. It is just before being tempted to interpret it as something positive, and I think that is really a pity, and I do not think it is very respectful to the people of Greenland. We are also in a situation where it is both IA and Siumut. Unfortunately, my Greenlandic colleague cannot be here to support this text for adoption. This is not in line with the usual approach to what to say about the interests expressed by Greenland. Usually you follow them and have a lot of respect for them. Unfortunately, I do not think that is the case with this text and with this whole situation, i.e. that there has been particular respect for Greenland in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517215023	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517215025	I am sorry if I have given reason to believe that this is a good situation for somebody I certainly do not think so. And I think I also stressed this in my rapporteur's speech, in other words that it is certainly not a desirable situation for us to find ourselves in here. And, yes, I understand that you have a wish in Greenland that this will be done according to the promised timetable. I can certainly understand that. But the problem arises from the fact that this relocation of jobs has now been made, and that this peculiar situation has arisen around the Spatial Data Board, which means that exactly this department has been emptied of competences. And then it has to be restored before you can move on. I should like to express my regret to the people of Greenland that they are the ones who have to suffer from this delay in the process.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517215129	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517215131	Thank you. One can say that it is quite a responsibility to take on one's shoulders, because, as has been mentioned several times, it is, after all, a matter of life and death. After all, we know that a Danish couple lost their lives in an area that was not listed and that was not digital charted. So it's a really big responsibility to take care of yourself. We can sit here and think that this is really just about a paper deal, but it's also about life and death. I would like to hear the rapporteur's comments on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517215201	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517215203	It is really very important that these charts are made in order to ensure the safety of movements in Greenland waters. But it is not Parliament's responsibility when people move into territorial waters that are not mapped out. It is not the responsibility of the Folketing, and to insinuate that the Folketing, by this postponement, is getting blood on its hands, I think to be somewhat out of line.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517215234	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next in the series of speeches is Mr. Knox. Thomas Danielsen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517215250	Thank you for that, President. In connection with this inquiry debate on the 2009 cooperation agreement with Greenland's self-government to create, digitise and re-publish charts for the south-west of Greenland by the end of 2018, we in the Left have unfortunately to recognise that it seems that the digitalisation of the charts may be delayed. We in the Left are, of course, very sorry about this, but we welcome the fact that the government is doing what it can to digitise the rest of the charts as soon as possible. However, it is still difficult to say how much we are able to do how quickly, because the delay is not due to a lack of economic or political will, but due to a lack of the knowledge necessary to ensure the recovery of the old charts. The government regularly recruits new staff and gets help from the Spatial Data Protection Agency's international sister organisations and partners, and the Left hopes that it can facilitate the process. Having said that, we must also look at the big picture. And fortunately, in cooperation with Greenland's self-government, the Spatial Data Board has given priority to which charts should be digitised first. This means that the charts have already been digitised in most of the areas where the most is sailed. The Left has made a historically ambitious plan for the relocation of state jobs. We are very proud of this because we believe it is important that growth and development benefit the whole country and that jobs are not only found in the larger cities. But no matter how large and ambitious our relocation plan is, it has unfortunately turned out to give some great friction exactly on this issue. We are, of course, very sorry about this and it is very sad. But we stand in the Left at our ambitious plan for a Denmark in balance, where development is not only taking place in the larger cities. At the same time, we support the proposal for adoption by the Blue Block, which asks the government to restore as soon as possible the competences for the production of Greenlandic charts. But it is no secret that this is a situation which we are mourning in the Left and taking very seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517215547	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517215550	I think it is only the Left itself that is talking about an historic and ambitious plan. This is the third time we have a scandal in the area of relocation. First it was DIIS, then it was the Danish National Institute for Occupational Injuries, and now it's the Spatial Data Board. All three things could have been foreseen, simply by talking to the workplace about it. Of course, the director of the Spatial Data Board knows what problems will arise if you move his very, very specialized people. I believe that this is nothing less than a scandal that could have consequences. And if you say you stick to your stupid plan, you take responsibility too, in my opinion. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether his government has asked whether it would be possible to get employees to do that work and whether it has been asked whether the company that has offered to the members of the Folketing to do it, if they can do it within the prescribed time. Because this sounds a little more important to moving jobs than to finding a solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517215655	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517215700	I am very, very sorry that Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur is taking up this issue. We, the Left and the Government, are doing everything we can to remedy the situation in which we have found ourselves. We take the matter very, very seriously. And then I find it actually ridiculous that the rapporteur on the Enhedslist clearly says that one should know in advance that exactly the team that has charts of Greenland waters is not interested in settling in Aalborg. This is not the same thing we see in the field of mapping other waters. It's a very unfortunate coincidence that's in this situation. And I would actually like to urge the rapporteur not to waste it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517215743	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517215746	I am not losing sight of what I am asking, and I am asking some very specific questions to which the rapporteur will not reply. I would like to hear: has it been checked whether the employees can be re-utilized and do that task? Or has it been examined whether the company that has sent letters to the members of the Parliament on the Greenland Committee can solve the task so that we can comply with the agreement reached? This has nothing to do with tails, it has something to do with this being deeply, deeply serious, and it could have been foreseen by any capable leader and minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517215817	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517215819	Now, sir, you're gonna be okay. Christian Juhl simply has to elaborate on how in the world one would have predicted that those who exactly make charts of Greenland waters did not want to settle in Aalborg, when I just point out that this is a special situation we are in. We can see that compared to those who make charts for other waters, there are not the same challenges. And that is why I am saying that it is going to be a waste of time when it is said that this could have been foreseen politically. So that the people who make charts of Greenland waters did not want to settle in Aalborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517215850	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Karin Gaardsted, the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517215856	Thank you. I do not think we should turn the debate on whether or not jobs should be relocated. I would like to maintain that the government must provide those charts by the end of 2018. I would therefore like to ask: if there is now an offer from another supplier that can guarantee correct cards, would the Left be prepared to accept such an offer?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517215932	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517215935	In other words, I simply do not want to be able to answer the question here from the platform. I do not have the opportunity to answer how we are legally obliged to the agreements we have entered into and so on. But it is no secret that technology is going very, very fast in this area, and we therefore very much hope that it can also help us in the problem we are faced with, so that, for example, we can do something about it. By air, these very large areas can be measured much faster than what was envisaged when the agreement was concluded in 2010. When we look at how many charts have been drawn up since the conclusion of the agreement, we can at least see that technology has helped us to make many more charts today than we did when we concluded the agreement, precisely because of technological progress.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517220029	Mrs. Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517220032	Well, that is exactly what the company that has approached the rapporteurs today is doing, namely making measurements from the plane, and then preparing the maps. And that's where the problem lies. It is not as much in the survey as it is in the production of the cards. I understand that the rapporteur cannot take a position right now, but I could say as another question: will the Left be prepared to find a solution other than that agreed with self-government?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517220113	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517220116	We do not reject any solutions. We are only concerned about resolving this matter as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517220122	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517220127	Thank you very much. The most important question has already been asked, but I have a small comment to make. When you mentioned an historic agreement, I actually thought it was this cooperation agreement with Greenland, but it might show the different perspectives there are. Because I think the cooperation agreement is extremely important, and here in the Folketing both red and blue blocks have been fighting for many years to get these charts in place. And I also hope that there is broad support for them, of course, to be in place as soon as possible. So let me ask you a more detailed question. It is an agreement that a Left Government entered into in 2009, so that is why the Left also has a special obligation, one might say. And I would like to know whether the Left is open to fulfilling the agreement if it turns out in practice that this can be done by 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517220222	I know it is getting late, but I must point out that we are not using direct indictments in the House. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517220230	It is a crucially important agreement that we have made, and that is why we are weeping as much as we do. Because it hurts us that it now turns out that we cannot live up to the agreement we have made ourselves. And that is also why we have been able to see our commitment to the matter continuously over several years. We have called for consultation and have been aware of the importance of drawing up the charts. That is why I also hope that it is clear to the rapporteur that the Left very much regrets the situation we have found ourselves in.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517220307	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517220310	Thank you very much. If we are now faced with the fact that it will be a question of crowns and ears, that is, that there is a need to invest something more or to allocate some more resources, is that something that a Left Government will be open to?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517220324	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517220325	We do not reject any solutions. We are only concerned about resolving this problem as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517220333	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517220343	There's been a thorough account of what this is all about. And I think what's the most embarrassing thing about this case is that the government hasn't looked into it properly. They call it a historic and ambitious plan when they relocate jobs. But in the most complicated area, where the lives of other people really are concerned, the relocation has been initiated without carrying out the studies I would call standard studies, namely to find out how many people are going with them. One cannot just assume that it is like any other company when it comes to such specialized things. I think that when the Left itself twice during the previous government has punked them and hoarded and scolded that the government was not fast enough, it is not much the game to say: this is not good enough, you should do that properly. It is not important for the government to cautiously ask the employees whether they, for example, are. could do this job in Copenhagen. Or rather, if it is more important for the government where they sit than for them to do the job, then it is scandalous. That is why we should first find out: Are the employees still interested in working for us? In the second round you should find out whether the companies that tell you that they can do the job will also be able to do it. And if there are also some in Greenland, you should find out if they can help with it. I believe that this is an extravaganza which we have heard from the Minister and from the rapporteur of the Left, and I do not think you can be familiar with that. I really think you should have delivered in this area. It is not long ago that this decision has been taken, and that means that the sails could be the rope as soon as you started to hear the employees say: No, we don't want to go. After all, any responsible management could have begun to do so. I would also like to say that this agreement must be respected if this government wants to maintain decency after this process. I agree with the Socialists that we can just keep all the other relocations out of it. However, it is important that such relocation should not be at the expense of the safety of the people of Greenland when they are at sea or others for that matter. There should be a sequence, after which you first think about the safety of the people who are going to sail in these areas and then see if it is possible to move out. Otherwise, you could do it if you would definitely still want to move away... that you say, "Okay, we'll move out once we've done the job we're supposed to do." It cannot be that ideological relocation must take precedence over human safety when they are at sea in an area where we know it is so cold that if you get hurt by a boat, survival is a matter of minutes. This is what we have been discussing time and time again in connection with these big ships that are going to sail in those areas. I think this is a sad situation. I would ask both the Minister and the Left and those who vote in favour of this agreement to tighten something up and deliver something instead of making the excuses for the phrase "sea statements" we have heard so far. I hope there's more meat on the next round of this, otherwise it's scandalous. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517220718	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517220726	Thank you. I have promised to announce that the Conservatives support the proposal for adoption which the Danish People's Party read out a moment ago. With regard to the question here, I would like to say that it is the view of the Liberal Alliance that it would be the right thing for the government to revise its cooperation agreement with Greenland self-government so that we have a realistic plan for the work. Because what's the alternative? There is no one in here who does not want to find a solution. And I must arrest the view that it alone should be 14 named employees who would be able to solve the task. I have never heard of any tasks that could be so specific that there were only 14 on this globe that could solve them. I simply refuse to believe that, and I do not understand the rhetoric about it. I can also hear from the Minister that there are already charts of the area covered by the cooperation agreement, but that they cannot be used for satellite navigation. I guess the disaster isn't that great, you could say, before the rhetoric goes all the way. So we have old cards that we can use. By the way, I am convinced that we will find a solution. You always find that on recruitment problems after such relocations. It's gonna be a while, but it's gonna find its legs to stand on. Otherwise, I believe that the Spatial Data Protection Agency must go out to the international market and buy out the necessary tasks. Any other organization would do that which does not care about such political teasing. And we also understand that there is a company that has approached the Greenlandic rapporteurs and that they can virtually start tomorrow morning. So you would like us to have no problem at all, because technology is catching up here too and solving the problem in a completely different way from what we had provided. And I guess that's something you have to talk about with the self-government. This is always the case when long-term agreements are made, so that new opportunities can then emerge. And if you can do it on the basis of airplanes and in a completely different way and much, much faster and, as I read, much cheaper too, why should it not be the basis for starting a new talk or changing the agreement you have once made? That would be quite natural. In any case, I am sure that the government understands that this is serious and that you have to do everything you can to resolve it. And I have no reason to believe otherwise, so that is why we support the proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517220958	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517221004	Now it is not I who say that it is not possible or that the 14 people are the only ones. It is the government that tells us that this is not possible, and they said so in a written reply here 14 days ago: it is not possible to live up to the agreement, we cannot find those people. And now we got confirmation: the Minister does not believe that it can be resolved and he has to try to make a new agreement. So it is the government that says so, and I would like to ask: if Mr. Villum Christensen believes that it is possible, why does he not vote in favour of the proposal for adoption made by the Greenland representatives so that we can give a clear message to the government instead of accepting a follow-up answer, where one draws in an elastic band and we do not even have a date for it anymore?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517221049	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517221052	I do not, and it is for this reason alone that I cannot know if it is possible. You can't tell anyone to do something that you don't know can be done. But I'm just saying that I'm gonna be very surprised if it's 14 named people, it's all standing and falling, and that I'm also gonna be wondering a lot if the government doesn't do everything it can at all. Because why wouldn't it? That is why I am saying that it falls within the scope of the political scam section, because I do not see the great differences. Who in the world would not be interested in solving such a problem as soon as possible? As I understand it, it's not about the economy, but it's about getting it solved, and it's about getting me to lie down if it's not gonna be solved.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517221130	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517221133	Now it's been a while since the government made the plan to relocate. And it is also about to be some time since it was published that it was actually a serious situation. It may well happen that the Minister has examined it I do not know. I don't want to be political about whether he's been looking into it or not. He has said that he has examined it and has not been able to find a solution. If Villum Christensen thinks he probably doesn't, then you're gonna have to deal with each other. I just want to know: What does Villum Christensen really mean when it comes to the matter? If it can't be done, is it okay and fine that we have a government that hasn't shown due diligence and made sure that things are okay before they start experimenting with these things?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517221213	We must remember to say the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517221220	I'd like to say to Mr. Christian Juhl: My old father always told me that you are not obliged beyond your abilities, or vice versa: If you have the ability, you have the duty, too, isn't that what it is called? And when I say that, it's simply because I can't understand what the problem is. Because everyone wants to solve it, and then we're over in the scam department. And I guess you can't stand here and promise anything and tell a government to do something when you don't have a hundred percent view of it. That would be totally ridiculous. So I don't think we're gonna make that conversation anymore.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517221306	There is a brief comment, Mr President. Villum Christensen, from Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517221310	Thank you very much. I therefore agree with the rapporteur that we should not be dealing in this Chamber with staff management, and this is not about these 14 staff members. I also agree that we would all like to see this resolved, and I am really, really glad that there is broad support for it. But I think that the problem is that we cannot really see any solutions to it, other than that we postpone it, and I do not think that this is a matter of tricks. The rapporteur obviously has more knowledge than the other Greenland rapporteurs. For the rapporteur points out that there is no lack of charts, but that it is a question of digitising the charts, and that is certainly new knowledge for me. As far as I understand the Minister, there are 41 charts still to be drawn up.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517221400	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517221404	As I understand it, without being an expert, it's about digitization. There are some maps, but of course they are not as useful when they are not digitized. That's how I got the problem. But it's possible that I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517221418	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. No, thank you? Then we thank the rapporteur, and the next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Johannes Lebech, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517221426	In the Radical Left, we generally understand that it cannot be intended that the chart survey and digitalisation of the charts of Greenland waters promised in 2009 should be delayed by the Geodata Board's transfer to Aalborg. I think it is getting a little late in the evening for me to start discussing relocation plans and so on. Especially when Mr. Thomas Danielsen is here, I dare not start such discussions at all, because we often meet out in West Jutland and also agree that there can be state institutions outside Copenhagen. But it might be mentioned that this is an example of how you might have thought of this plan from 2009 and had a little more agreements with the Spatial Data Board about whether it could now be done and that you could have done it a little sooner. But it's probably such a controversy, it's a little too late to start. However, I would like to mention this, and it is also one of the reasons why we support the proposal of the Greenlandic rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517221530	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Magni Arge from List T.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517221551	Thank you. I fully support the proposal that the government should comply with the agreement to deliver the 73 new charts to Greenland on time. I am well aware that the government has run into some logistical problems in getting the work done on time because some have been initiated, we should say controversial organisational changes. But it is not in the defence of the government that the problems have arisen as a result of a domestic decision in Denmark, which is actually made not by necessity or coercion, but rather by political or opportunist considerations. It's just about moving the jobs. Could this project not have been implemented despite the relocation of employees? It also puts the issue in a very serious light that, in the extreme, human lives are at stake. Anyone who has the least experience of sailing or shipping knows the safety risk of sailing in waters without any charts or measurements being made. And it is even in waters where fatal accidents have already been experienced and where there are proven risk factors such as rocks and rocks, which can be difficult to see with poor visibility. From the Faroe Islands we can easily understand the Greenlandic concern, not only because we ourselves know how to run around the Faroe Islands in such a way, but also because we ourselves have lost more ships and sailors in Greenlandic waters through the ages. It is only a few weeks ago the government had to publish a report on foreign policy in which the kingdom of Denmark was launched as an Arctic great power. I would like to take this opportunity to point out once again that the dreams of great power rest primarily on the fact that the world's largest island, Kalaallit Nunaat, is part of the kingdom. Denmark thus draws on a large international credit with Greenland as guarantor, among other things. today, when the Prime Minister shows the melting ice rather than Donald in Greenland, and it is surely to feel Europe's Donald Tusk we are talking about. The visit to Greenland and today's meeting with Kim Kielsen and Donald Tusk will hopefully be constructive, but delivery of the charts should not be delayed in a local Danish tusk trade about jobs in the province. I sincerely hope that the government is aware of its responsibility and helps to improve the safety of maritime traffic in Greenland and the Arctic by finding a solution so that the charts can be delivered at the agreed time. As you know, the saying that one is a chart to understand, another ship to lead, presupposes that there are indeed some charts.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517221854	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. I now give the floor to the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517221920	Thank you to the President and also to the rapporteurs for their commitment to the debate here. I take the situation quite seriously, and I would also like to say in reply to some of the questions that have been put, that it is absolutely essential for the government that we do everything possible to resolve this situation. It is clear that 14 out of 15 employees with a very special knowledge of chart surveying have chosen to terminate their jobs in connection with the transfer of the Spatial Data Board to Aalborg, of course, is a challenge. Therefore, we are also doing what we can to deal with this as well as possible. But it is also clear that there is a need to make a new agreement with Greenland's Self-Government. It is not possible to produce the charts agreed by the deadline of 2018. This is also why it has been crucial for the government that in this process we have had good contact with Greenland and have discussed this with the Greenlandic politicians, so that everyone has been aware of what this situation is that we are in. I would like to say that both the Ministry and the Spatial Data Board are working on high pressure in relation to handling the staff situation, and I would also like to say to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen that, to the extent that there should be competences in Greenland, we are, of course, also prepared to investigate it. This also applies to some of the other proposals that have been mentioned here today. There is a letter to the Greenland Committee that I do not know the content of, as I am not a member of the Greenland Committee, but if there are some options here, we are, of course, also prepared to look at it. It is also the case that new employees are recruited on an ongoing basis. The Spatial Data Board has so far employed four new employees for the production of Greenlandic charts, and a number of new posts have been opened for an early occupation. There is also a course in chart data for new employees with external assistance, including from some of the Spatial Data Authority's sister organisations, maritime partners and external consultants. There has been a course of educational assistance from the English sister organization. Training has been conducted with the assistance of the maritime partner, ICC Technologies, and there have also been a number of other initiatives to attract new employees, including from the UK, where there is a range of employees with these competencies. We'll look into it all. But it is also the case that there is a challenge associated with new employees, because you can't just start dealing with these charts overnight. This requires a great deal of specialist knowledge, and it requires a longer side-by-side training in order to handle that task. So all the possible steps are being taken to deal with the situation we are in. It doesn't change that we thought it was a real decision to move the Spatial Data Board to Aalborg. This is part of the relocation of approx. 4,000 state jobs with the aim of creating growth and development also in Denmark's outskirts. But it is clear that challenges have arisen here. There will certainly be other places. It is my job as Minister to address the challenge that is, as good as possible, and to fulfil the responsibilities that it is when you are a minister and in government, and to ensure that we do everything possible to deal with the situation that we are in as well as possible. I believe that we are doing this with the measures that I have just outlined. And if there are further proposals for action, we are also prepared to discuss them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517222325	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first is from Mrs Karin Gaardsted, the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517222330	Thank you. After all, the Minister has stressed that the timing of the agreement cannot be kept. Can the Minister state how many years the Minister expects the agreement to be abandoned?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517222347	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517222348	Thank you to Mrs Karin Gaardsted for her question. I cannot tell you that at this stage. We're looking at this, and we're taking this task as seriously as possible. We believe that the measurement must be carried out as quickly as possible, and this will be the case, among other things. depends on whether we can attract the skills that are needed and whether some of the actions we are taking are also successful and are being implemented. But I am confident that this will, of course, happen as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517222417	Mrs. Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517222421	Will the Minister be prepared to meet and listen to the company that has approached the Greenland rapporteurs with information that there are new ways of measuring and producing charts?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517222434	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517222436	Now I do not think it would be right for me, as a minister, to be in direct contact with the companies which are taking on tasks in this area. But I think it's obvious. Now I don't know that letter; I'm not on the Parliament's Greenland Committee. However, I would urge that the company in question contact the Spatial Data Protection Board with a view to what options might be available here. We are, in fact, open to looking at the possibilities that exist and, of course, it is absolutely crucial that this should be resolved at the highest level in the professional field. This is an area where there can be no mistakes. We need to make sure that we are safe, and it may well be the case here that the company can handle that task, and if it can, then let's see what opportunities there are. However, it is crucial that the quality of the charts is absolutely optimal. Even tiny mistakes can have quite fatal significance. That is why it is also a great challenge.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517222523	The next brief remark is from Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517222529	The Left has, of course, had the tough tone of the previous government, and it has been said today that raising this matter should be an expression of tricks or tacks. Was it also scam and slap when the Left raised the matter twice in 2012 and 2014 in the Defence Committee and the Foreign Affairs Committee respectively to the Social Democrats? I'd like to know. So I would also like to know: has it been checked whether it is possible to solve the problem by staying in Copenhagen for a number of years and driving on with the staff who have been there before? Has it even been investigated? That's probably the third time I've asked.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517222612	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517222615	To Mr. Christian Juhl will say I haven't used the words snippets and tails. I think that Mr. Christian Juhl brings the debate down to a very, very low level, but of course it is Enhedslisten's own decision. In view of the fact that this has been raised in the past, I would like to say that it is the task of every opposition to challenge a government that is in office at all times. That is what is happening in the Parliamentary Chamber here, and that is what we did when we were in opposition. But I can tell you that the transfer of the board to Aalborg is a matter of fact. We have no thoughts about changing that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517222644	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517222647	Fortunately, I wasn't the one who said snippets and tails. It was, of course, the Minister's own party comrades and allies. So he's gonna have to settle for that. I asked specifically whether it has been examined whether this could be done by not moving over there and by keeping a department in Copenhagen. Has it been checked? I didn't ask if the government thinks it's settled. Because it is certainly not wise if you say that you want to move it at any cost, that is, if there was an opportunity here. I'd like to know if it's been checked. That's what I asked.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517222719	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517222721	I can say that it is not part of the government's thinking not to move the board to Aalborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517222728	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517222732	Thank you very much to the Minister. I still think that it is a little unclear what it is that is intended to do in concrete terms. Well, that's how the long cool move is, you can say that you want to ensure that there are some qualified employees, but that it also takes a very long time before they are properly dressed to carry out the task. I therefore take note of the statement made by the Minister that it is within a few years. There were some of the other rapporteurs who also asked a little about it, i.e. how long we are talking about, and I still think it is very unclear what it is that is actually intended to do to do the utmost to ensure that these charts are put in place within the agreed framework.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517222815	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517222817	I can say that it is my clear view that the Spatial Data Protection Agency is doing the best they can at all. They're preoccupied with this task, and it's a long, cool move, because these employees don't just get trained and given the necessary skills overnight. It is also absolutely crucial for me, as Minister, to maintain that this work should be at a high, high professional level. Even small mistakes can have fatal significance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517222849	Then we thank the Minister. Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen has asked to speak again in the second round.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517222910	I'll be brief. It's a little late for the night. I would like to thank all the rapporteurs and thank you very much, Mr President. Christian Juhl of the Enhedslisten and Mr. Magni Arge from Tjóðveldi, who has supported this request. I would also like to thank the Minister. After all, I see that there is some kind of opening. In relation to having charts made in Greenland, it is not a matter of party politics or block politics. In reality, this is something that is widely supported. I think this question actually shows that very well. There is a desire broadly to find a solution, also preferably by 2018. After all, that's what we can take with us from this request. I would also like to say that I would very much like to send that material from this Greenlandic company to the Minister or at least to the Ministry. In relation to the two texts for adoption which are before us now, I think it is really a pity that there has not been broad support for the text supported by the two members of the Greenland Parliament, which has been supported by a large number of parties, because we here in the Danish Parliament have a very good tradition of listening to it. I find it difficult to see the defence of the common interests in the text of the adoption put forward by the other parties, and in particular the interests of Greenland, I find it very difficult to see. I think it is very clear that some Danish interests are being taken care of. I think that's a real shame. I have the feeling that there is, after all, broad support for finding a solution. We may not have the solution here and now; it is a broad wish that a solution be found. So thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517223102	There is just one brief comment from Mr. Thomas Danielsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517223106	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's commitment. The rapporteur should certainly not regret discussing this at this late hour, because this is a very important matter, which we are, of course, willing to devote time to at least the necessary time. Now the rapporteur has just mentioned that we have a tradition of supporting the proposals for adoption that come when Greenland, for example. submit a proposal for adoption. That is something we welcome in the Left. The challenge was that the adoption that was made was an adoption which we are saying, unfortunately, cannot be done. We regret this and we would therefore like to go as far as possible. The government is only represented by the Left, and that is why we are also putting pressure on the government to ask the government to work to restore the skills needed to get these charts made, as quickly as possible, to engage in a dialogue with self-government, etc. That is why my question is this: could it be imagined that the rapporteur will support the line taken by a majority in the Danish Parliament?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517223218	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517223221	Thank you very much for the question. When I mention this with the fact that you typically listen to the wishes that come from Greenland, that is how it should be interpreted, and not necessarily in the sense that here comes a text of adoption from Greenland's members of parliament. I think that is important to make clear. I also think it is important to say that when you say no to something, you usually come up with an alternative, and you do that by telling us what you think should replace. That's what I need. I think we are in a situation where we all find that there is a problem here, and we need to resolve that. We are actually trying to see if we will find a solution by 2018, as it was in the original agreement, and press ahead with it. Now we have such a loose rear edge, one can say, which means that we may risk that an unknown number of years will pass before an agreement is reached. I think it is really a pity that the original agreement is not being complied with.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517223315	Sir. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517223318	We also cry in the Left that we cannot live up to the original agreement, or that there is at least a very great risk that we will not be able to do so. Now the Left and a majority in the Folketing are asking the government to set all the sails to solve this task as quickly as possible and to do so in a good dialogue with self-government. That is why my question is specifically: is this proposal for adoption something that the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party are interested in supporting?
ParlaMint-DK_20160517223345	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517223348	As a starting point, I think it is very positive to set all the sails on, but I just do not think it is enough, because when we see that my Greenlandic colleague also supports this text, which also represents the government, Naalaksususut, in Greenland, I think we have a really big challenge, because there is It has been through really, very many years, and you have had a very long time to make these charts. It hasn't come out of thin air. So we would like this priority to be given. Whether it takes resources or investment or whatever it takes, it must be up to the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517223427	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Christian Juhl from Enhedslisten, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517223436	Thank you. This is not a question, but a brief comment. I had understood that the Prime Minister thinks it is very, very important that you have a good relationship with the Faroe Islands and Greenland and that much needs to be done for it. That's why I think it's grotesque that we've ended up in this situation, since everybody thinks they want these things. What I am most sorry about is that a minister stubbornly continues to say: there are no current ideas about postponing the relocation of that job. Imagine if it could have been done to finish it in Copenhagen, and then you could move to Aalborg once you had finished your duties. You say you have to do your duty, and then you can claim your right afterwards. I think it is a sad situation that you will not even answer such a question. You have a fine attitude on the outside, and you will even make flag days and everything else for both parties. That's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517223542	Does the rapporteur have a comment on this? No, and we would like to thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposed adoption will take place only on Thursday 19 May 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20160517223604	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 18 May 2016, at 6 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
