ParlaMint-DK_20160126130032	The meeting has been opened, and should anyone have been in doubt, it is meeting no. 44 and not, as stated on the printed agenda, meeting no. 46. Today there are the following reviews: Pernille Skipper (EL) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 56 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a ministerial lobby register) and motion for a resolution No. B 57 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution setting up a working party to draw up models for periods of employment for ministers in lobbying companies etc.). Jens Joel (S), Mikkel Dencker (DF), Thomase Danielse (V), Maria Reumert Gjerding (EL), Villum Christensen (LA), Christian Poll (ALT), Andreas Steenberg (RV), Pia Olsen Dyhr (SF) and Mette Abildgaard (KF): Request no. F 17 (What can the Minister say about the government's future climate policy initiatives in the light of the climate policy statement?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20160126130140	According to Section 41 of the Rules of Procedure, Nick Hækkerup has applied for leave from 1 February 2016. 3 (c). If no objection is raised, I shall consider it agreed that leave should be granted as an application and that the deputy should be called as a temporary member. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126130211	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the First Deputy of the Social Democratic Party of North Zealand's Grand District, Lunderød Lunderød, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing as from 1 February 2016 on the occasion of Nick Hækkerup's leave. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126130255	The committee's recommendation shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. The Committee's recommendation has been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126130328	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 18 by Marcus Knuth (V), Karin Gaardsted (S), Christian Juhl (EL), Carsten Bach (LA), Torsten Gejl (ALT), Martin Lidegaard (RV), Karsten Hønge (SF), Rasmus Jarlov (KF), Aaja Chemnitz Larsen (IA), Aleqa Hammond (SIU) and Sjúrður Skaale (JF), and voting is possible. The vote is closed. In favour 86 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF, KF, IA and SIU), against 23 (DF), abstention 0. Proposal for adoption No V 18 has been adopted. After that, the draft adopted by the Committee of the Regions No 1 was adopted. V 17 of Søren Espersen (DF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126130520	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Sir. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126130532	Thank you for the floor. I have chosen to speak here at the third reading because, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, I would like to acknowledge that everything suggests that there is a broad majority in favour of a number of restrictions in this Chamber today. It is certainly a step in the right direction and it is incredibly valuable that we can gather widely to do the right thing for our country. It is important that, despite political disagreements, the Folketing should be brought together in one for the country as crucial and seriously as we really are. This is a regular migration and what we are doing in these months, these years, will define us as a nation for many years to come. This is certainly a good bill, but more is needed. More border controls are needed and further tightening of asylum and immigration policy is also needed. Once this bill has been adopted, we in the Danish People's Party will continue our work to limit the influx. In our view, it is crucial that we restrict non-western immigration, including immigration from Muslim countries, and it is essential that we continue to work towards the temporary return of foreigners with asylum status only in Denmark. Unfortunately, for the majority of those who have arrived and the majority of those who are coming will never be integrated, for the simple reason that we are too different. Basically, it is about what kind of country we are going to pass on to those who are coming after us. It is about safeguarding the values that we in society appreciate are being preserved so that our descendants too can benefit from what has been built up over many generations. We must help people on the run, but we must not destroy our own country in trying to do so. I do not think I can be defended. We need to help in other ways, and we need to ensure that the neighbourhood effort is constantly improved, so that the most vulnerable refugees will of course receive the help they need, but not with a residence permit in Denmark. Asylum policy, as we know it, has failed and, in our view, this bill is a step in the right direction. I hope that other parties in the Folketing will be involved in further work on implementing further measures aimed at limiting the influx to Denmark, in particular immigration from non-western countries. With these comments, I am not surprised to announce that the Danish People's Party will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126130747	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no comments at all. Then it's mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126130800	Thank you for that, President. In the Left, we want to ensure a good balance in our asylum policy. On the one hand, we must help people who are fleeing from war and, on the other hand, we must recognise that the number of refugees coming to Denmark is important for our ability to integrate these people and that it is important for our opportunities in the Danish welfare society in general. Only last week we had a debate in this Chamber on how we can help the municipalities to meet the challenge they face as a result of this very extraordinary situation. Every day, we hear that mayors across the country have challenges to keep up with the massive influx that waves across Europe and across Denmark. That is why it has been necessary to tighten up, so that we ensure that Denmark is not unnecessarily attractive compared to other countries, and so that we ensure that we do not take so many asylum seekers that we cannot keep up. On one side of the Left there are some who want to open the gate wide open and walk in the footsteps of the Swedes, while some to the other side want to close Denmark airtightly in for all foreigners. In the Left, we want to strike a balance between these two extremes. We must take our share of responsibility, and we do, but we must not take more than we have the opportunity to deal with, because it destroys the possibility of integrating those we accept. And if integration fails, the bill will come later. We must learn from the mistakes made by changing governments and changing parliamentary majority over many years. There's been a lot of debate about this bill... a very heated debate... and it's been a debate that I've been involved in along the way myself. And that's why I'm the one who's taking the stand now. I cannot help but bear in mind that some parties have had it for me quite incomprehensible and, at best, narrow-minded and short-sighted interest in addressing this proposal in a way that is not reasonable and is very far from reality. This has helped to cloud the debate, and it has helped to damage Denmark's reputation abroad. This proposal tightens and it is necessary to ensure that municipalities and integration can keep up. I hear a lot of criticism from many sides, I just don't really hear any solution from any of those sides. So when Enhedslisten, Alternative, Radical and SF will open the locks, what is the solution, what is the answer to the municipalities? What is the answer to the question of integration, and where is the money to come from? It is not enough just to make bastant statements to act humanely on the one hand and to act decisively on the other. You have to be realistic and you have to find a balance. The balance I think we have found in the Left, the balance I think the government has found. So let us debate our differences, but let us not give free rein to imagination and unfair associations. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126131110	Thank you. There are a few comments, first from Mrs Johanne-Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126131114	I understand that yesterday in Parliament the Foreign Minister guaranteed that this bill, which is being dealt with thirdly today, is in line with international conventions, including the European Convention on Human Rights. I am surprised because the government writes in its comments to the bill itself that there is a so-called process risk, and that is, there is a risk of being convicted of human rights violations. Firstly, can the rapporteur understand how the Secretary of State from the Left can guarantee that this bill is in line with human rights, since the government itself writes something else in the comments? Secondly, can the rapporteur, Mr von der Vring, speak on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection? Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen, guarantee that Denmark would not be judged if this bill came before the European Court of Human Rights?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126131212	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126131214	Thank you. Now, as you know, law is not an exact science. And that means that many lawyers and similar types have a job, and you can then think differently about that. When the Minister for Foreign Affairs is asked, it is of course about his assessment, the government's assessment of whether this is a good thing, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs answers that. That is what he thinks it is; that is what the government thinks it is; and that is what we in the Left think it is. Yeah, there's a process risk, but everything's there. That's why we have lawyers. There is a risk of a process, and I should like to acknowledge that this is also moving right to the edge. It is doing so, and it is conscious because we believe that it is therefore necessary to take firm action. But that is the view of the government, and I fully agree that this is within the scope of conventions and human rights. That is also the view of the Foreign Minister, and that is what he said.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126131310	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126131311	I know that this is the first time that a government has written in its comments on a legislative proposal that there is a procedural risk here. It is therefore recognised that there is a risk that Denmark will be convicted of human rights violations. What is the rapporteur's own assessment? If this bill comes before the European Court of Human Rights, and I am thinking, of course, of the part about postponing the right to family reunification for three years for those refugees who get what is called temporary protection status, does the rapporteur think that Denmark will be convicted of violations, yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126131357	Then it's the rapporteur, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126131358	No, I do not think Denmark will be, because I share the view of the government. I do not dispute the fact that it is probably true when Mrs Johanne-Schmidt-Nielsen says that this is the first time a government has written this in a decision-making framework, but, for crying out loud, it is time. Excuse me if you have not taken a position in the past on the fact that law is not an exact science and that there is always a risk of a process, then it is good that we have a responsible government that actually focuses on it, and I would like to thank the rapporteur for drawing attention to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126131431	Thank you. Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. There are a large number who have joined us as rapporteurs, so we have so far turned off the 'A' vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126131443	Let us be realistic, says the rapporteur. I think that's right. In this debate we must try to be realistic and realistic. The question I just have to ask is: is this a realistic course to solve this problem? Because there is no doubt that the austerity rate worked as long as we had a neighbouring country which had opened its doors as long as other countries tightened less. But what we are seeing in Europe right now is that all countries are tightening up. So tighter policy works in the sense that it can push refugees to other countries, in other words pass the challenge on to our neighbours. But if the neighbors make the same type of tightening, the tightenings cancel each other out, so my question is basic: is there a Danish solution to this? Is there a Swedish solution? Is there a German solution? Or is there only the solution of finding answers to this in Europe, internationally? Yes, please!). Isn't this just symbol politics that's not gonna work?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126131555	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126131558	I was very much in agreement with Mr. Pelle Dragsted until the point where the President began to interrupt, so I will start by addressing it. No, there are no simple national solutions to this. There aren't any snapshot solutions on this. That is also why I take the liberty of being a little critical of those who are very active and bastant and say: this is just how we can solve things. There are no easy solutions, because what you do around here is to put a finger in the holes, but we need to ensure that the influx is slowed down. That's right, sir. Pelle Dragsted also suggests that there are only European solutions, that there are only international solutions. That is also what the government says very openly and very clearly. But until the solutions have been found until the world has agreed, it is the government's job and I am glad that it takes care of Denmark. This is also done by ensuring that the number that comes here is reduced.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126131701	Thank you. Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126131703	So it must be understood that until international solutions are found, each country must, like defend itself and try to push the burden to its neighbours. I understand that position. I do not know how sympathetic I think it is, but what just puzzles me, even if you have that position, is why the Danish Government has not then taken the lead in establishing a common European distribution key for refugees. Why has one not gone out and said: Why should Denmark take the huge responsibility? Why should Sweden take the huge responsibility when there are a lot of countries in Europe that are losing it? Why didn't they say so? Why have national solutions been hidden instead of engaging offensively in a fight for a European solution to these issues?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126131741	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126131743	Well, I'm not sure I agree. Or I'm pretty sure I don't agree with Mr. Knox. Pelle Dragsted in that a key is the solution. I mean, a key is actually just gonna make a little bit of a mess about the challenge all over the place. It does not solve the situation from which those people are fleeing, whether it is an escape from war, death and destruction, or it is an escape to the possibility of a better life. After all, we do not solve that challenge by distributing people. I must also ask the other way. Now that you talk a lot about this key, what do you imagine about the people who end up in a country where they don't like to be? It may be that some people think that living in Sweden is a bad thing. I have no reason to believe that. It may be that some people find it a pity to live in Romania. I have more reason to believe that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126131828	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126131830	At second reading last week, only I was in the chair as rapporteur because we had tabled an amendment together with other parties, which is why I would like to take this opportunity today to ask the rapporteur why the rapporteur and his party will not allow unaccompanied children who have been placed in an asylum centre but who have the opportunity to move into private accommodation with an uncle or another family member to do so and therefore voted against the amendment. Why will the rapporteur's party not allow children to be privately accommodated with family when possible and at the same time it will be cheaper for the state? I think the rapporteur uses many arguments to make sense to the state and the economy, but here is one that makes no sense to me at all. Can the rapporteur explain his party's policy here?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126131934	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126131936	When unaccompanied refugee children come to Denmark, we as a country also have an obligation to look after them, and there it is the government's and the Left's view that this is best done by the fact that these children live in refugee camps and not with family. We have a responsibility for the people who come here, including when it comes to young people, and that is why we voted against the amendment tabled by Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen last week.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126132005	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126132006	The rapporteur therefore believes that taking better care of unaccompanied children by leaving them in a refugee camp, which was the words used by the rapporteur himself, instead of being able to live with the family while, after six months, you can place them in private anywhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126132025	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126132025-2	I really believe that we have a responsibility for these young people and that we as a nation must also ensure that they are properly taken care of, and I am not sure that this is done by placing people with family members or alleged family members. I can see that Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen is smiling at it a little, but I actually mean this very seriously. We must take care of the unaccompanied children who come up here because they are far away from their parents and so on, and that is where I believe we have an obligation. Then we can disagree on how best to accommodate it. But this is my position and that of the Left, and Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen has a different view.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126132107	Then it's mr. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126132110	I could sense from the rapporteur that the rapporteur thought that the opposition, including perhaps the SF, I have also read in the press that the Left believes that some of our Members of the European Parliament have helped to whip up a mood, have dealt with this bill indisputably. Then I just want to hear, factually: is it right or wrong that the government's first draft of this bill would ask Danish officers to take expensive wedding rings and valuables worth more than DKK 3,000??
ParlaMint-DK_20160126132140	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126132143	Let's finally take this. I was kind of hoping it'd come. In Denmark we have an expectation that those who can take care of themselves will be on their own. This is a demand we are making on refugees now too. We are making a number of things available as part of the Danish welfare society. We must do so, and so do we. The only requirement we make is that if you can take care of yourself, you have to do it. This has been called the Jewel Law and other things, although it has been repeatedly emphasized, including by myself, that this is not about jewelry. The question is: will you include the jewelry of refugees? No, we won't. Jewellery by their nature has affection value, and effects with affection value are excluded here. So no, you don't want to involve people's jewelry. That part of it seems to me to have been addressed in a way that is unreasonable, which is a very, very mild expression to use, but now there are limits to how floromvundent one can express oneself in the Parliamentary Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126132244	Thank you. Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126132246	Thank you for your answer. I have two questions. If the rapporteur then thinks that it is just us who have spoken it wrong, why did the Minister think in two rounds that there was a need to change the legislation? It must have been because the first draft was, like, wrong or wrong. The second question is: does the rapporteur not think that there is a difference between a Danish cash aid recipient and an asylum seeker? Now, I have heard a lot about the fact that they are going to be treated equally, but it is not a given right that the asylum seeker is granted asylum and therefore the same rights as a cash aid recipient. What if the asylum seeker doesn't get asylum and has to go home? Then we have taken the valuables of the asylum seeker.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126132322	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126132323	This is not to equate two groups of people. It is to uphold a principle, and I think it is a very, very good principle. It is a principle that if you can take care of yourself in Denmark, you have to. I think this should apply to people who have been born here, and it should also apply to people who come from outside, even if they are on the run. And we are therefore making a number of facilities available to those people. What we then demand in return is that if you can pay for food and lodging yourself, you must contribute to it, according to the limits set here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126132400	Thank you. Sir. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126132406	First of all, I am quite sure that both the rapporteur and the Left and the government really have the best intentions, and I also have great respect for the rigours that are desired in ensuring that Denmark can continue to be a welfare state. I can very much disagree with the rigours and the way it is done, but what I want to point out here is that the openness and the clear line, in relation to what Denmark actually goes out and does, as the government says it stands for, is that when the rapporteur at CNN says that we could never take jewelry. This is completely unheard of, says the rapporteur at CNN. I think that is in stark contrast to 1) the bill we are seeing and 2) what is being said about the other parties in the Folketing who question whether it really can be true whether it is really Denmark. There we get thrown back so that it is almost a harmful business that we are out to do when we say that there are some critical points in this speech. So I would like to hear: is it not too bad that CNN is being told by the rapporteur that it is quite unheard of that the government will take jewelry?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126132514	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126132517	I stand by every word in Danish or English, as I have said to CNN. That is absolutely correct and completely in line with the policy of the government and the policy of the Left. We don't want to take jewelry from people. It's unheard of. When I add that it is unheard of, it is because on the question, as Mr. René Gade skilfully fails to mention comes a direct reference to the Holocaust. It's unheard of. That is a totally unacceptable reference. No, we don't want to take jewelry from people, because jewelry in their nature has affection value. Then we can come up with a long, probably boring and very, very theoretical situation where we can list grotesque examples where the law still allows for it. Yeah, if it's a jewelry that's a commodity, not a jewelry that's a personal property. It is a grotesque discussion and I think it is obscene.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126132620	Sir. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126132623	I will then nevertheless be happy because I was very positive about the rapporteur's speech on CNN. I think there was a great deal of dignity about the way that was spoken, and I think once again that one could understand just a little of the rhetoric that is being used by the government. But that means that we can stand by what is being said from the platform here, so that the government will never take jewelry, because, according to the rapporteur, it would be a completely grotesque situation if it were to arise. So I would like an answer to that. Does this mean that the government and Denmark will never ever take jewelry from someone who comes here to Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126132653	Here you go. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126132655	That is to say, in my most absurd imagination alone, I can dream up a grotesque example where it can take place. The government doesn't want to take people's jewelry. I said that clearly there, I say that clearly now, and that is what I mean.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126132712	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Dan Jørgensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126132722	In these months, Denmark is receiving an enormous number of refugees. This presents us with difficult choices and decisions, and it requires us legislators to take responsibility, to seek solutions. We need to find a balance. On the one hand, of course, we must protect people on the run. Those who flee death, destruction and persecution need our help. On the other hand, we must also be able to keep up. The number coming to Denmark means something. If it is not limited, if it continues to rise, as has happened so far, it can have serious consequences. This could have consequences for those we need to integrate. Whether the task of integration in Denmark can succeed; whether we can combat parallel societies; whether we can take a hard stand against the oppression of women; and whether we can get people into work, all depends on how many people are coming. Right now there are too many. More than 20,000 were granted asylum last year, and this year the figure is expected to be much higher. In the municipalities, the clear message is: We cannot keep up. We don't have enough housing, we don't have enough hands to handle this assignment. That is why the Socialists support L 87. We need to tighten up. It is not an easy choice, and it is not an easy decision, because it is a tough one, but it is a necessary choice. To those who say we're making a mistake to those who say we're going too far, my question is, what's your alternative? I have not yet heard any plausible response from the parties opposed to this legislation on how they will then bring down the number. Long-term vision of peace on earth and a well-functioning international system that distributes refugees are beautiful thoughts, but it does not help the municipalities that are struggling today and tomorrow and next week to solve the huge challenges they face now. And it does not help those refugees who are actually already in Denmark, because the number means that integration will not work for the vast majority. This bill does not solve all the problems, and we Socialists also want much more help in the neighbourhood. We want the European Union to secure its external borders better. In general, we want many more international solutions and are deeply critical of the government in that they do not do enough in that direction. But here and now we have to make a necessary decision for Denmark, and here we take responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126133001	Thank you. Then there are a few brief comments. Sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126133006	I can understand the rapporteur's point that responsibility is being taken here and that something must be done and so on. etc. But where is the limit? How far are we prepared to go with this intention of reducing the number if it is going to reduce the number, because this presupposes that the total number will not increase and that our neighbouring countries will not do the same? At the same time, the rapporteur says that we must help people who are fleeing war and oppression, but what we are doing with this proposal is exactly the opposite, as far as the part of what is about family reunification is concerned. So my question is really just • and I understand the thinking and the balance between one thing and the other: does the rapporteur think that the changes to the family reunification rules that are being implemented with this will have an effect on the number of people seeking asylum in Denmark who compensate for the human suffering • that is what it is about if you have your children in a war zone, for both the children and those who are here? Does the rapporteur think that balance is right here? Does the rapporteur think that this might be my question?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126133128	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126133129	Sir. Pelle Dragsted, in a previous question to Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen, that tightening probably works. I think so, too. And I believe that exactly this thing that I freely admit is one of the hardest decisions to make, because it has negative consequences for some real people, and I don't think that's funny either. But I'm gonna do it, and we're gonna do it because we actually think it's gonna work. Then you might ask why we are willing to live with it. Yes, it is because the alternative is that we continue to be among the most attractive countries in Europe to come to among the countries with the most lenient legislation, and then we end up as Sweden. Is that a good alternative? Well, in Sweden today, if you don't have an idea, it doesn't matter if you want to be sent straight back to torture. Because they have been so pressured that their system has collapsed, so what was previously, in the eyes of some, such a humanistic superpower has now de facto put the right of asylum out of effect. So the alternative is so bad and so bad that that's why we're taking these tough, yeah, but necessary steps.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126133235	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126133237	I do not think that any country should take as many refugees as Sweden has. I also think it is unfair that Denmark should take so many in comparison with many other countries in Europe. I think that what our sister party in Sweden has said could be a road that could have been taken in Denmark. You have said to the European Union: if there is no solution that divides this responsibility and ensures that the countries that are losing it today take responsibility, then we will stop paying our EU quota. Why is it that you don't think in other ways than this one that this can be solved in Denmark? Why is it that one does not think in ways where one tries to find solutions that mean that no country should take the number that Sweden and Denmark have done because the countries take responsibility jointly?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126133316	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126133318	We certainly also want to do everything we can to attack the root of this problem by helping more in the neighbourhoods and things like that. Of course. However, I must admit that it sounds a little hollow when the Enhedslisten is going to attack my party and the government in order not to do enough to fight for an EU distribution of refugees. As far as I know, sir. Pelle Dragsted opposes the EU and at least opposes the EU having supranational competence, which should force a country like Denmark to receive a certain number or not a certain number.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126133352	Sir. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126133356	After much debate with the rapporteur, I will now try to look a little forward, because in the consultations on the tightening up of family reunification rules, which is what concerns me most, the Danish Psychologist Association and the Red Cross writes that the implementation of this proposal can mean major psychological problems and serious trauma for those families that cannot be reunited. Does the rapporteur consider this to be beneficial for integration?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126133425	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126133426	Now the SF's rapporteur said that he would move a little further, but I really remember that it was exactly the same question that I received from the rapporteur last time I stood here. However, I would like to repeat the answer: I do not think you can find a Socialist who has argued that this is a proposal which benefits integration in isolation. When we do, however, it is because the alternative is worse for integration. If we do not tighten up, if we do not do something about the number, we will, at worst, end up in a situation such as Sweden, a situation in which the right of asylum has been de facto abolished. That's reality. It is really not humanistic; it is self-evident. But this is also a situation in which we disclaim the possibility of integrating those people far more people than those who are just affected by this legislation, we are depriving ourselves of the possibility of being integrated into Denmark. That is what worries us. I just have to say again that the SF is also among the parties that say that the number matters. You recognise that the number matters, but I have not heard a single short-term solution to the problems we have right now from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126133532	I have to clarify the Rules of Procedure as regards the fact that you, you and you are not directly indicted. Here you go, sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126133539	No, it's because we don't think there are short-term solutions to this. There is no solution to a refugee crisis. Then the current government, which promised an immediate brake, would have made the snapshot solutions as well. There will continue to be large flows of refugees. So I want to hear the rapporteur: if it is now the case for these families that they have trauma and psychological problems, will the Socialists somehow force the government or at least help the SF to ensure that there will be the trauma that they need in the future? Because right now you see examples of these people going for real, a lot of months without getting treatment for these traumas.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126133615	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126133617	I can confirm what I have said in a number of places, I think that we must, of course, pay close attention to trauma, not only to the specific group we are talking about here, but also to many of the refugees who come to Denmark and to the fact that the current situation with regard to treatment is not satisfactory. But let me also repeat that I think it is incredibly easy when the SF rapporteur says: we do not believe in short-term solutions, so we can only pursue long-term solutions. No, when it is clear that everyone knows that no matter what we do in Denmark and what we vote today, it is not what determines whether refugees are coming from Syria. It is also not the case that there will be no one tomorrow. But of course you can make tightenings that affect the number coming to Denmark. The alternative, I have to say to the rapporteur, is that we continue to see an increase and that we end up as Sweden unless the rapporteur has an alternative which he has not yet put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126133710	Thank you. Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126133715	The rapporteur keeps saying that there is no alternative to this, that is to say that we have to vote in favour. But even the Socialists seem to have a limit, for Mr. Dan Jørgensen said at first reading that if this much-discussed piece of the bill had not been amended, the Socialists would have rejected the bill. I am surprised that this is where the Socialists choose to strike. One of the elements that has not been discussed so much in this bill is that education should no longer count when collecting points for a permanent residence permit. This means that young people born in Denmark, raised in Denmark, are motivated to take unskilled jobs rather than to train themselves. Is that good for integration, sir? Dan Jørgensen?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126133805	Sir. Dan Jørgensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126133806	I saw that Enhedslisten's rapporteur was out on various social media, but I got away from answering it, and I can do that now. What I was saying wasn't that our whole support for this very important and very comprehensive bill stood and fell with this jewelry law. What I said was that we could not support the jewellery legislation as it was drafted so far, and we would have tabled an amendment to which, moreover, we had support from other parties included in this overall agreement, because we simply did not believe that the way in which the Minister presented things in relation to this issue was in line with the agreement we had made. That is why I could say so brazenly that if it had not been changed, that part would have been changed, because there would simply not have been a majority for that. In relation to education, I would say that it has to be seen in the context of the fact that permanent residence is something we see as a privilege, something we must earn, something we must work for. That is why we have raised the various demands that we have raised, including that on education. Having said that, it is clear that we think that we could have looked at the possibility that, for example, we could have looked at the possibility that we could have been more relaxed. Vocational training could count as a form of employment, since you are in work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126133923	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126133925	Permanent residence permits are something to be earned, says the rapporteur. This means that young people who live in Denmark and who are born in Denmark and have lived their entire lives here are now told: It is better that you take an unskilled job than you take an education; you earn more permanent residence by working unskilled than by training yourself as a teacher or nurse or as a carpenter or as an engineer or a doctor. How does that work, sir? Dan Jørgensen? Answer me the question: is it good for integration that young people are training or is it bad?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126134003	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126134005	I tried to answer the question. When it is difficult to respond very carefully to all the questions that lie in the rapporteur's speech, it is because there are also insinuations and various expressions of what I should have said that are not true. We think that yes, that we are equally satisfied with all the demands? Do we think all demands are equally good? No, for example. I have just admitted that we would have liked to see the vocational training situation be different. But the difference between the rapporteur's party and my party is that we are sitting at the table, so we are actually getting something through. For example: We changed the limit of how much one should earn on average, which is a...
ParlaMint-DK_20160126134048	Thank you. The rapporteur will have to answer the question later. There are plenty of brief comments. Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126134058	Thank you. But I would like to ask the rapporteur what follow-up is being given to Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen's question: how can integration benefit that young people born and raised in Denmark cannot take a higher education or just any education in order to earn it, as the rapporteur puts it, and I agree with that in Denmark? How does this benefit integration?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126134135	Here you go, then it's the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126134138	Listen, maybe I should start by putting it down, which may be a misunderstanding. I don't know: it's not like you can't take an education. It is not the case that it is still not good to take an education. I mean, this is about what you have to pass, or what kind of requirements you have to meet to get a permanent stay. And there is what we think that self-supporting for a period of time is a reasonable requirement. Then I also say openly in answer to the question of whether this is the perfect solution we have ended up with here: no, we do not really think so, because we think that consideration of vocational training should have been given more weight. But that was not the case, and that is the case when compromises are reached. And again, I can say to the rapporteur's party, as I have said to other parties here from the platform today, that the difference between your party and ours is, of course, that we have been sitting with and having an influence on some things. Have we got everything through? No. Has it become perfect and as we ourselves would have written it? No. But we've got things through, and you can then sit and complain about the things you're unhappy with. That's fine, but that's not how we make politics.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126134235	Unfortunately, I have to say once again that there is no direct indictment. So we do not do that in the Chamber, either from the floor or up here on the platform. Here you go, Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126134249	I think the rapporteur knows everything about the Radical Left being very willing to take responsibility for solutions that work in reality. And that's what's the difference here. However, I should just like to confirm from the rapporteur that the rapporteur does not believe that education other than vocational training will be reasonable in order to earn permanent residence.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126134316	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126134317	I have answered that very clearly. And I have to say to the comment that the Radical Left is willing to take responsibility, that the Radical Left has given only one answer to what they think should be done, and I have it here. It was sir. Morten Østergaard, who said on Danmarks Radio: Sweden is a pioneer country when it comes to refugees. No, we don't think so. In other words, what has happened in Sweden is an example of how misunderstood goodness can actually lead to a situation that is really, really bad for those refugees who are now being rejected at Sweden's borders because they may not have got the idea out of a burning house.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126134353	Thank you. Then it's mr. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126134400	As you know, the Socialists have been rounded up by the workers' movement, which is why it is surprising that the rapporteur, in his introductory speech, was given what should he call it? Instead, it is necessary to make decisions for Denmark, and it is probably also on that ball street that Mr. Henrik Sass Larsen, also from the Socialists, says: I will not sacrifice the welfare state in the name of humanism. Tell me, isn't this some kind of expression of a person I would call vile nationalism, where Denmark shuts itself down and where you don't believe in international solutions, don't believe in the value you've rounded up yourself, namely internationalism? I think this is very much an expression of this when you want to find solutions just for Denmark alone.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126134503	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126134506	I have spent almost ten years in the European Parliament, and every time some have proposed to give the European Union more competence in all areas, Mr. Henning Hyllested's party opposed, and especially when it was about some of the issues we are talking about now. So it sounds extremely hollow that we should be criticized for no longer being in contact with the workers' movement and what is happening in Mr Kellett-Bowman's report. Henning Hyllested's eyes had to be such a good left-wing attitude, because here we do not see the international solutions as the ones that lie right in front of us. On the contrary, it is realism, regardless of the fact that it is clear that the opposition, which Mr. Henning Hyllested's party has hardly the great effect. In relation to whether the things so actually happen or not, it is hardly going to happen in a short time. But what is going to happen in a short time, because it has already happened, is that the municipalities out there are coming under pressure, that the integration efforts out there are coming under pressure, and that we risk ending up as a country like Sweden, where the right of asylum has de facto been put out of effect and rejecting all those people who do not have an idea. That's what happens if you don't act now and take responsibility. And Mr. Henning Hyllested also owes it to us, on behalf of his party, to say what the alternative is for the problems that are at the moment, because I do share Mr Hyllested's point of view. Henning Hyllested's beautiful visions of a world only in peace and happiness.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126134626	Thank you. Sir. Henning Hylllested. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126134630	But is not the logical consequence of what the rapporteur says that this country is closing down on itself, and that we ultimately ban it, if I may say so, to set up fences like Hungary? Because if we just look for national solutions, there are no solutions. International solutions need to be sought, even at European level, and I would just like to say that the European Union in our optics is the international capital of European big business. Maybe that's why we disagree on that. However, international solutions need to be sought, whether this is done at European level within the European Union, or by pursuing the UN trail. At the time, the United Nations took a great deal of responsibility in relation to Vietnamese boat refugees and was very active in their distribution. That is really what the sustainable solutions are, Mr President. Dan Jørgensen, and not the nationalism of the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126134721	Thank you. This is a subject that concerns many people. What we must not do in the Parliamentary Chamber is to call on the higher powers. That is also stated in the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126134733	The higher powers, I didn't notice that. Was it big business or you don't know? But all right, then, I understand that the solution is to wait for a quota model from the UN, where the UN can then impose on countries in some supranational body how many to take. I am not sure, or rather, I am quite sure that I do not agree with that model, but whether I am or not, I can at least say with a hundred percent certainty that that model will neither be introduced nor operate in the short term. But we have problems, even in the short term. There are so many people coming to Denmark now that if we don't figure out how to get that number down, both the people who come will suffer, because they cannot be properly integrated, and our welfare society suffers, which I actually thought Enhedslisten had an interest in maintaining.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126134821	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126134823	How do the Socialists think that education no longer counts in terms of permanent residence affects integration?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126134833	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126134834	I do not think that the fact that it no longer counts will affect integration. What is going to affect integration, I think, is provided that one shares the logic that must lie under the questioner's question... is that one is actually making an effort to meet these requirements. These are things like Danish knowledge and that you are self-supporting and all these things, and that will certainly have a positive effect on integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126134901	Thank you. Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126134903	So if the consequence of this is that fewer young people take an education and more take unskilled jobs, do the Social Democrats think that it benefits integration?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126134916	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126134917	I would say that the situation in which a great many foreigners drop their education in order to take up a job in order to meet the requirements for permanent residence simply does not appear to me. I just don't see it. So I certainly cannot accept the premise of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126134937	Thank you. Then it's mr. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126134941	Thank you. Of course, I'd like to sign for Mr. Knox. Dan Jørgensen and the Social Democratic Party at least vote in favour of the bill here today. I think that's excellent. However, I would also like to ask about the situation if it turns out that the measures we are adopting here today are not enough to effectively limit the flow. In other words, we have seen a reduction in the number of asylum seekers coming to Denmark in the last few weeks. That is, of course, a good thing, and it should continue to do so in the downward direction. But I would be interested to hear a statement from Mr. Dan Jørgensen of whether the Socialists can already say that if this is not enough to limit the flow, then the Socialists are ready to take further action in the field of asylum and aliens.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126135024	Thank you. Sir. Dan Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126135026	Well, I cannot answer that kind of hypothetical question, but I can assure the DF's rapporteur that some of what we are going to take care of is the integration effort. Of course, the rapporteur is not happy to hear that, because the rapporteur's party is of course of the opinion that foreigners should not be integrated into Denmark. But that is where we have an opposing attitude. We believe that the people who come here must work as quickly as possible. We see this as one of the most effective ways of strengthening integration at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126135049	Sir. Martin Henriksen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126135051	However, it is well known that there are some disagreements between the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party as to whether it is possible to integrate the many people who come here. I have heard that the Socialists have said and that the Socialist President, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, has also said on several occasions that the number plays a role. In other words, the prerequisite for us to make integration work is that we can reduce the number. And if it turns out that these austerity measures are not enough to reduce the number, that is to say that we will see that the number of asylum seekers we expect to come to Denmark this year will actually end up coming, then the logical conclusion of the Socialist Group must be that we will also be ready to take further measures that limit the flow.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126135129	Here you go, then it's the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126135130	That depends entirely on what it will be if it is too tight. That is why I cannot answer the question, because it will be very hypothetical. However, what I can say at any rate to speak in the direction of what I think the rapporteur might think is that some of the proposals made by the rapporteur's party, which are clear breaches of the conventions, will not be supported.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126135150	Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126135155	I never thought I'd say that. Martin Henriksen stole my question right in front of me. But then I will follow up on that answer, if you can call it that, as Mr. Dan Jørgensen gave that time must tell. That is why I would just like the rapporteur to say, so to speak, that the limit has not been reached with this proposal. In other words, if it continues that there will be refugees in a number that the Social Democratic Party does not think is appropriate for Denmark, then this is not the last legislative proposal that will be put to the vote; that is, there can be further tightenings. Is that what you mean?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126135240	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126135242	But this is a polemic game, because if I ask Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen whether she can guarantee that SF will never support a single tightening of asylum legislation in Denmark in the future, then Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen will not be able to give that guarantee either. In other words, we are looking at what situations we are in, we are looking at what concrete political proposals are there and we are looking at what concrete political proposals we can create ourselves, and we are doing this on an ongoing basis. That's how you make politics. So, no, that kind of hypothetical game, I'm not gonna go for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126135310	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126135311	There is a difference between the rapporteur's party and the SF. One cannot give out promises in the future, but the rapporteur said that the Social Democrats will not support DF proposals because they are on the verge of conventions or violate them. However, the rapporteur's party today supports a bill that the Institute for Human Rights says is not just on the verge of conventions, but is most likely to violate them, and they say that Denmark is most likely to get a case on its neck. That's the big difference. I think there is a world of difference in relation to whether or not we support legislative proposals which are contrary to the Convention and to human rights. So the rapporteur can answer whether there will be further violations of human rights in proposals that will be supported.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126135356	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126135359	So, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen asks me to conclude something, despite the fact that both I and the government and others have said from this platform that, of course, this is not how we see it, namely that it should be a breach of the conventions to support this legislation. And no, of course I will not conclude that, no matter how subtlely you ask the question. We do not believe that this is a breach of the conventions. We do not believe that conventions should be broken.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126135426	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and then it is the next rapporteur, Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen, who is Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126135438	Thank you. I apologize for my vote. There are some buctuses that have taken a permanent stay in my neck. I would like to begin by saying that, unlike the Danish People's Party, I certainly do not think there is any reason to celebrate today, on the contrary. I find it so extremely sad and sad that the way in which the government and the right and even the Socialists choose to respond to an international and historical refugee crisis is sending out signals in the world that in Denmark refugees are not welcome. One responds by taking the lead in a European tight race and by implementing tightening of Danish legislation, which will have a direct negative impact on integration in this country. I would like to start with that with the signals, because I understand that the Foreign Minister is mad at those politicians who have spoken critically about this very controversial jewellery proposal. Well, excuse me, what a lame report. I understand that the government finds it embarrassing that the world community is so puzzled about Denmark, but it is not the opposition that the world community is puzzled about, it is the government's policy. And I thought that the whole purpose of e.g. Putting ads in the world that say you should not come here because it is not very nice to be a refugee here was that the world community should hear that in Denmark refugees are not welcome. But I may have been wrong. It may be that it was only in the war-torn countries, in the crisis-torn zones, that that message should be discovered and those to which that message was to be delivered. That this is symbolic policy when, for example, the government... I think that this proposal with jewelry, which has been discussed so much, is very well reflected in the fact that the government has not been able to provide a single calculation of how much money you get into this. I think that's because you know you don't get any money into it. After all, it is not the case that the asylum system should now be financed through confiscated iPads and impersonal jewelry, which is what one has decided to take. As I said, it's symbol politics that's about scaring people away. I understand that this particular element of the law is one of the things that the Socialists have really committed themselves to. And when the Socialist rapporteur has to explain and defend why the Socialists have chosen to vote in favour of this and why it was so important to sit at the table, as has been said, then the explanation is: well, we got it changed so that the limit is now DKK 10,000. over 3,000 kroner. Excuse me, I just don't understand that priority. I think it is a good thing that the Socialists therefore believe that some line can be drawn in the sand and that it is not such an unlimited one as to be able to vote for anything, but I do not understand the place to draw the line. I think there are a large number of elements in this bill that have filled very little in the debate, but which are far more serious. And let me start with this family reunion with kids. For refugees who receive temporary protection, it is very much women who receive the protection status that will take three years in future before they can have their spouse and children safe. 3 years. I know war is tearing families apart. We all know that. The question then is whether Denmark should help to try to reunite the families that are being broken up because of war, or whether we should contribute to the continuation of separation. That's the last thing you do with this bill. You contribute to the separation that war creates. I very often hear the right-wing say that the asylum system is so unfair because only the strongest are given asylum. They are the ones who can survive the trip across the Mediterranean and come to Europe and make an application for asylum. And I agree with that. The asylum system is completely crammed with injustices, among others. because a healthy adult man's survival chance in a Mediterranean dinghy is considerably greater than that of a child. Women are at significantly higher risk of sexual abuse. How can we try to compensate for these injustices? We can, among other things. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done on this subject. That is what we are not just tampering with, but are postponing for three years. I have to say, I think it's shocking. On top of that, these changes are being implemented, knowing that there is a huge risk that Denmark will be convicted of violations of the European Convention on Human Rights. You know that. I heard the Foreign Minister standing in the European Parliament yesterday saying: No, no, there is no need to worry about that; certain; keep us, this is of course in compliance with the conventions. However, the government writes directly in the comments to the bill that it is well known that there is a pretty high risk of being convicted if this case comes before the European Court of Human Rights. So where is it that Denmark has come to? After all, we were such a country once known for taking the lead in the world in the fight for respect for human rights, and not just as such, some maximum standards. I believe that the government sees human rights and international conventions as such, which just have to be respected, and if you do that, then everything is good. Well, it's supposed to be such a bottom level. It has to be said that it is no longer. Another point I would like to highlight is that the rules on quota refugees. As you know, Denmark takes around 500 quota refugees a year. And now I was talking about the injustices in the asylum system. After all, the United Nations quota refugee system is precisely an attempt to put an end to these injustices, because in fact in the camps where some of the world's most vulnerable refugees are sitting, refugees are being taken for distribution in the countries that have joined them. It is therefore those who have not had the economy to pay a human smuggler to come to Europe; those whose health could not stand for that trip in the dinghy over the Mediterranean. These are the ones you pick up from the quota refugee system. Now we are making a change which means that, as a starting point, we want to sort out those refugees who cannot read and write. I repeat: you want to sort out refugees who cannot read and write as if your chances of survival and the need for protection depend on whether you have been lucky enough to go to school. There should be one criterion that applies when we choose refugees around the world, namely who has the greatest need for protection. This is something like this: Who contributes the most to the Danish bottom line? There is nothing to do with refugee policy. The third point I would like to highlight is access to so-called unlimited residence permits, permanent residence. Because with this bill and with this law, it will be the case that people who want a permanent residence permit will no longer experience that education counts. What counts is work when you have to collect points like that. The previous government, in other words the Socialist-led government, changed the rules, among other things. along with us in the Enhedslisten, and said that of course education must count. Of course, we should not tell those who have come to Denmark as small or who have even been born here: you should go out and take some unskilled work, for that is what gives points if you want a permanent stay. Of course we must say: you must train. Because we know that it is best for integration. I mean, I can't even think of a human being, yes, I don't know; it may be that there is someone in here who can report who might say that it was better for integration that a young person took unskilled work, dropped training and said: "That thing with a teacher or a nurse or a doctor or a carpenter or a bricklayer or whatever it may be, I don't bother anyway. That doesn't make any sense. When we changed the law, Mrs Karen Hækkerup said that this was much better for integration. That was the argument for changing the law. Yes, that was well said by Mrs Karen Hækkerup. It was much better for integration. Unfortunately, we are going the wrong way with this bill, and it is even at a time when exactly the integration task may be more important than ever before. A fourth point I would like to highlight is the possibility for families with children to move out of the centres. Back in the 2007 election campaign, Mr. Anders Fogh Rasmussen to do something about the fact that there were children who spent their entire childhood at asylum centres. Sir. Anders Fogh Rasmussen actually did something about it. They changed the rules and made sure that it did not become a normal state, because after a period the children's families could be allowed to move out. That improvement is now being rolled back. I think it's sad. Fortunately, there is another Denmark Thank you!), which in particular: consists of friendly people and all sorts of other people who engage in a Denmark, Thank you, so time is well exceeded) who welcome refugees. I'm glad.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126140502	Thank you. Well, that's a long way past time. I would recommend that we try to keep to time. It is bad for all of us, including for the rapporteurs who are waiting if time is not respected. Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126140519	Thank you for a marked criticism of the bill. That's what I expected, too. However, I think I miss a little and have long missed some answers from the Enhedslisten. Enhedslisten is best at asking questions. But what is the answer to the question of limiting human flows to Europe? Stop the civil war in Syria. We can quickly agree on that and other things like that. But how do you manage the number of people who come to, for example? Denmark? I don't remember ever hearing a solution from the Enhedslisten. Is anyone there?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126140555	Here you go, then it's the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126140557	Then the Liberal Alliance rapporteur has not listened. I'm sorry to hear that. Firstly, I fully agree with the rapporteur that it is completely untenable to imagine that all the many people who are on the run should go to Europe. That's not gonna work. It's not a solution to anything. It is therefore a task to reduce the number of people on the run. I do not believe that there is a Danish solution. Nor do I believe that there is a Swedish solution or a German solution or a Greek solution or a Jordanian solution. I think there are only common solutions. It is in Europe through a distribution key. It is through the United Nations with a distribution there, with a significant commitment to the expansion of the quota refugee system, as we saw with a former left-wing prime minister at the head of the late 1970s and early 1980s when hundreds of thousands of Vietnamese refugees were distributed. Then there is a task that is absolutely crucial, namely the stabilisation of the neighbourhood. I think it is so unfortunate that the rapporteur has helped to vote in favour of drastic cuts to UN development programmes in the neighbourhood. Then there is a completely different discussion about integration in Denmark. We must also bet on that. You don't do that with this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126140708	Thank you. Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126140711	I have put on teflon so that all the polemics I will let brag off completely, and I will continue to ask for a real answer to the question I asked. The Enhedslisten would like international quota allocation solutions. I understand that is the answer. At the UN, I wouldn't dare guess how long it takes. In the European Union it will probably have a longer perspective • years, perhaps decades, if ever. What if we don't get the solutions that Enhedslisten would like other countries to do with us? In other words, if there is no national response at all, should we just wait for years and see that 100,000 to 200,000 people are coming to Denmark without us being able to regulate it at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126140759	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126140802	In fact, it is not meant as a polemic when I say that I am sincerely sorry that the choice has been made, for example. to cut back on the UN development programmes in Syria, Jordan and Lebanon, because that is one of the things that helps to stabilise the neighbourhood areas that are being talked about incredibly much, but done very little too. I fully agree with the rapporteur that it is extremely difficult and that it is extremely up to us to get international solutions through, but I think it is the only realistic, knowing that it is really difficult. I think that is the only realistic answer to this refugee crisis that the world is facing. Competition in a tight race equals each other and the refugees lose.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126140844	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Mette Bock, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126140852	Thank you. I think that virtually everyone agrees that international solutions are the one that can deal with this problem, this challenge, and that in the ideal world it would be the case that all refugees were helped and that they were allowed to decide for themselves where they wanted to flee. We can agree on that. But until that happens, until we make some decisions internationally, what does Enhedslisten think will happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126140918	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126140920	First: I mean it when I say that I do not believe that there is a Danish solution to this. What the right-wing party has unfortunately, together with the Socialists, embarked on is to say: we are starting a tighter race on who can be tighter, so that refugees do not come to Denmark. I'm sorry, I don't believe in the strategy. I think it's like peeing in your pants. It warms up for a very short time, and then these tightens cancel each other out. Then there is also the second part, which is: What can we live with? I cannot politically justify saying to children: Unfortunately, it will be three years before you can see your father again. I do not think that is a proper way of acting in a refugee crisis. That element, of course, is also included. Then there is something that I think we are discussing very little and which is about how we actually make the integration task that is in Denmark work. It's hard. Damn, it's hard to accept refugees. I think you shoot yourself in the foot with this. I believe that the integration task is made even more difficult.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126141022	Mrs. Mette Bock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126141025	I'll try again. My fellow party member asked two questions. I've put one for now, and now I'm gonna ask one more. Until we establish these international solutions, what should Denmark do? And does the rapporteur think that for 2, 3, 4, 5 or 6 years, Denmark will be able to take between 20,000 and 30,000 refugees, who will then have family reunification afterwards, and that we can make integration work?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126141049	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126141052	The fact that you do not get the answer that you think is the right answer is not the same as not getting the answer. The integration task is difficult. That goes without saying. Each party will then have to make up for itself which policy one thinks is most realistic. Because I have heard no one say: Boom, I have a quick fix on the refugee crisis. I believe that what I am talking about here is absolutely the most realistic thing, namely to recognise that the path that we are trying to lead the tighter race is not leading anywhere. Tightenings are going to lift each other because we're just infecting everyone else. And, as I have said, it is combined with the fact that I believe that this makes the integration task in Denmark more difficult. I think it will be harder to integrate the people who will be sitting in the municipalities and who do not know if their children and wives are safe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126141145	Thank you. Sir. Dan Jørgensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126141149	Thank you. I would like to ask a few questions about the international solutions, because what does the Enhedslisten envisage if it is to be at EU level and UN level that such a distribution is made? Should it be binding rules for the participating countries, or should it be voluntary cooperation, where anyone who wants to take some, and those who do not want to, can stop taking someone?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126141211	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126141212	I believe most strongly in the voluntary way, and there are several reasons for this. The main thing is that I do not want to be the refugee sent to a country where both the people and the whole political community have said: no, no, we do not want them. I am very concerned about the consequences that this will have within the country and for the refugees who are going to. So I believe that individual countries must voluntarily join, as we see with the United Nations quota refugee system today. On the other hand, I think it would be right and proper to try to push through various economic incentives. After all, the party with which we work in Sweden has said: listen, Sweden pays a very large quota to the European Union every year. At the same time, we all know this with an unreasonably high level of effort in terms of protecting refugees. Our Swedish colleagues have said: can we not freeze this quota to the EU?) until more contribute? I think that was a wise way to go, so to say: can we compensate those countries Thank you!) which takes financial responsibility?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126141324	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126141328	So what we have to understand is that we have to wait for all countries in the world to agree to voluntary arrangements and that the only way to push is to threaten not to pay their quotas to the communities of which you are a part. What, then, are the sanctions in relation to the UN solutions? Is it then that you do not pay to the UN organisations you are paying to now?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126141354	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126141357	First of all, why should we wait until all the countries of the world had joined some kind of distribution? That would be stupid. Of course, the countries that will can cooperate. Secondly, I know that Mr. Dan Jørgensen, who is otherwise very enthusiastic about EU cooperation, is trying to make it appear as if the idea that countries can cooperate is completely such on the moon-unrealist. In fact, I think the only realistic answer, sir. Dan Jørgensen, on the international refugee crisis in the world, is that we cooperate. And I have to say that I get very worried when countries like Denmark and the Prime Minister in Denmark tell the world press Thank you!) that one is considering changing Thank you! ) and weaken the Refugee Convention. Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. Imagine if Jordan or Lebanon thanks the rapporteur! Speaking time has passed! ) did the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126141442	So I have to say it very, very clearly now: that simply cannot be done! There are many rapporteurs who would like to do so. It's just pulling out the whole séance, and there's no need for that. We must respect the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, sir. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126141500	Thank you. In his speech, the rapporteur made a great deal of reference to the concept of justice. It is true that the refugees who reach the Danish border are the refugees who have sold their house in, for example. Syria. You can dwell on that a little bit. Well, in Denmark you can't sell a house in the country, but in Syria you can apparently sell houses in the war zones I don't know how to do that. Enough about that. They have then paid a smuggler thousands of dollars to be transported up a safe Europe to reach the Danish border. That is the one type of refugees we have. The second type of refugees are those who sit in the neighbourhood and who do not move forward because they do not have the means to pay a smuggler to come to Denmark. Can the rapporteur explain in such a socialist perspective why we need to spend so much money to help the most disadvantaged at the expense of those who are most at risk?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126141554	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126141557	I am so Jeppe Jakobsen asks me exactly the question, because I hear again and again the Danish People's Party say: No, it is just unfair that the refugees who come here to Denmark are those who, for example, are. have had a house they have been able to sell, or something that has enabled them to escape to Denmark. I would like to reply to two points. First of all, why is it that we are weakening all the possibilities that exist to compensate for the quite obvious injustices that the asylum system quite rightly contains, for example. the possibility of family reunification? The possibility of family reunification is an attempt to compensate for exactly the injustices that Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen here speaks of. Secondly, how, on the one hand, can we speak, as Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen here does, and on the other hand are warm supporters of significant cuts in development aid? I think that is what is called hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126141703	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126141707	I am quite sure that it is the rapporteur who stands on the platform and I am asking in this context. Then the rapporteur will not answer why it is fair to help those who are in the best position, instead of helping those who are in the worst position. I would also like to inform the rapporteur that we have allocated more money to help these refugees in the neighbourhood, and not less, as the Enhedslisten is trying to claim.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126141728	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126141731	For example, you have... cut back on UN development programmes in Syria and in the neighbourhood. I find that extremely worrying. Let's go into Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen's idea; let us pretend that refugee policy is simple mathematics; let us pretend that refugees are just the sort of pieces that you can move around with on a board. Yes, if the world were so simple, it would be wiser to spend all the money in the neighborhoods. The world is not that simple, partly because the surrounding areas are collapsing below the number of refugees, partly because there is Denmark. What do you want, sir? Jeppe Jacobsen make of them? So, I know you can't land by plane in Syria and send them into the arms of the Islamic State. Nor am I assuming (Thank you). The red lamp is shining!) that it is the proposal of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126141814	Sir. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126141820	Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll has already asked, but has not received an answer. Mrs Mette Bock has asked with the same result. So I have to ask: until this solution comes from the United Nations and from the European Union, against which I have not heard any comment, what policy should Denmark pursue?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126141840	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126141842	I'm surprised that sir... Henrik Dahl has heard no voice against international cooperation. I am familiar with the Danish Government, which the Liberal Alliance supports, for example. No, you don't want to be part of a key. It is therefore extremely opposed to international cooperation. I think we should go two ways at least. One is to put massive pressure on working for international solutions, cooperation. We are not doing that at this stage; we are doing the opposite. The other way is to work to ensure that integration in Denmark actually works. A lot of people do. These are people who engage with friendly people, with refugee aid, with the Red Cross and all sorts of others who make football tournaments, with homework help, and what do I know? They take real responsibility for integration, and thank you for that. I think that makes a crucial difference. But when you do, for example... If refugees in Denmark are placed on such low benefits that it will be very difficult to pay rent, then I think you shoot yourself in the foot if you want integration to work. Then it'll be even harder to make this work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126141946	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126141948	I didn't hear an answer. So what policy is Denmark going to pursue in the area of refugees coming to Denmark if everything is going to depend on some solutions from the UN and the EU sometime in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126142000	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126142002	I understand, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll had put on a kind of polemic flon shield. I will take it over, and instead I will tell Liberal Alliance MP here what I think is the right thing to do to make integration work in Denmark. I think it is wise to ensure that people actually have access to Danish society. I do not think we are giving people access to Danish society by isolating them in poverty. That will be the consequence of the legislation that is being introduced right now. I think it's really stupid to want good integration, to separate families. Because then I think all they have in their head is: Are my children safe, is my wife safe, is my husband safe? There are no easy answers. There isn't. I know that's what the Liberal Alliance wants.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126142053	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126142058	Then I'll try to ask the question too. Nor did Henrik Dahl get an answer to the question. The rapporteur says what should not be done. But what does the rapporteur want Denmark to do until international solutions come in?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126142116	Here you go, then it's the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126142118	Firstly, Denmark must work for international solutions, for example. in the EU. We must work to ensure that we actually do so in a spirit of solidarity. It is untenable for a country like Sweden to have such a great task as Sweden is currently facing. Well, get in the fight, government. It is so obvious that this is the only realistic way to go. Secondly, Denmark must work actively for a massive effort in the immediate areas that are being talked about incredibly much, but which are being done incredibly little too. Right now we are seeing refugees fleeing camps in, for example. Jordan and Lebanon because there is no funding for food, for medicine, for blankets, for water, for everything that is needed to sustain life. People keep running. If you want to limit the number of refugees in Denmark, then you have to work to stabilise the surrounding areas. That is not being done at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126142221	Thank you to the rapporteur. There's no more questioners. Then we move on to the next rapporteur, who is Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126142232	Then we have again, for the third time, and are discussing L 87, which has, of course, been very controversial, and perhaps with good reason. We are in a situation where there is a refugee crisis in the world. We are in a situation where there is a migration crisis in Europe. In the Liberal Alliance, we are very concerned about how to do something about Syria, but it is of course difficult to make a decision in this Parliament with 179 highly gifted people who could ensure that the civil war in Syria ends. The truth is, we're waiting. We wait for the United States, we wait for Britain, we wait for France, we even wait for Russia, even if we do not like the idea. We are waiting for larger countries to take responsibility for doing something to stop the civil war in Syria. Until then, it is our wish that we help massively in the neighbourhoods, because there are people in besieged cities in Syria who are starving; there are people in neighbouring camps who do not get enough food rations; there are Syrian children who go through a childhood without schooling while growing up in neighbouring countries. We can do that ourselves. It's a little good, but only a little better. That is not what brings the Syrian civil war to an end. Then I also have to say, with the permission of the President in half English, that this is breaking news but I think that breaking news has gradually been danished. Then I will break the news to parts of the Folketing that even if the civil war in Syria ended this afternoon, there would still be a European migration crisis. There would still be a lot of pressure from people who want to live in Europe and including Denmark. You can't think of those people in that. Some come for perfectly legitimate refugee reasons. Others, many, come because they want to live in a country where they can have a better standard of living where they can have better prospects for their children. I can understand why they think that way. But we just can't honor so many people's desire to come to Denmark without having secured a job or an educational place in advance. Work or training must be the prerequisite for obtaining a residence permit if what you want is to improve your life situation. The number matters. We hear that over and over again. From party by party, from politician by politician. But how do we even look at the number if we are not prepared to think differently to think new? In the Liberal Alliance we have been working on the idea that for a few years we should not be able to apply for asylum in Denmark itself, but instead Denmark should be able to decide in advance how many quota refugees we take per year. We have proposed 4,000 so that Danish society can keep up with integration, education, work, participation. We have come up with a proposal which, in tradition, has been poured down the board by virtually all parties in the Folketing. This also happened 11⁄2 years ago when we proposed that people should be helped in camps in the neighbourhood instead of in camps in Denmark. At that time we were told by the then Prime Minister, Helle Thorning-Schmidt, that this could not be done. Today, exactly the same is said by the Group Chairman of the Socialist Group, Mr President. Henrik Sass Larsen. At that time we were told by the Conservative Party chairman, Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, they sure wouldn't do that. Now I've seen the same sir. Søren Pape Poulsen says it's a really good idea. As the Danish People's Party, like the Liberal Alliance, had its point of view back then, there is in fact now a majority in the Danish Parliament that thinks it is a good idea. Something like that with a majority of the people, apparently, also affects experts and their interpretation of conventions and rules. Because we have now seen in several media that Thomas Gammeltoft-Hansen has been out saying that one might be able to do more already within the conventions. We have even seen Eva Smith say that there is a lot within the conventions. I never thought I'd see this day. But I did. This means that the debate is moving, even if the proposals are being poured down the board in the first round. We think it is important to help. We think it is important that we accept our humanitarian responsibilities. And we think it is important to assume responsibility for the community that has elected one into the Folketing and for there not to be such incalculable integration tasks that they cannot be solved. As Mrs Mette Bock said just now in a question to Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen: what do we really do if there are 20 000 to 25 000 asylum seekers a year this year, the following year, the following year, the following year and the following year, until there are international solutions which we all consider to be the long-term answer? We also believe that an international solution is the long-term answer. We also believe that a European solution is the long-term response. We have even just made a proposal in which we want there to be stronger external borders in Europe. We have even written that we are prepared both to look at the economy of it and perhaps as a surprise to someone also to see whether it requires that competence and sovereignty be given to the European Union if it is necessary to fulfil this task. So yes, we also believe in international and European solutions. The only thing that worries us is whether those solutions come quickly enough. And what are we going to do until the European solutions come in? The specific legislative proposal is, in fact, an example of how we are trying a little desperately to see whether we can still regulate the number. I acknowledge that is desperate to do. I recognise that it will not have as much effect as one might hope, and I recognise that both this and the previous immigration package, in which we also shared responsibility, contain elements that have the character of folly. It was not a desire of the Liberal Alliance to be able to take jewelry from people. That is what we said before the negotiations, as we said during the negotiations, and we have also said during the debate in this Chamber. It wasn't a wish from us. But if we were to influence the whole package, you'd have to give and take. We strongly recommended the government and the other parties to take that element out even before we were at first reading. Then we moderated it a little. We appreciate that, but it wasn't smart to bring it. But somehow the situation is forcing us to take initiatives that we would not take under normal circumstances. Sometimes it can be difficult to look yourself in the eye when it comes to the outer edge of the proposals, because they have such a grotesque character. But that is the only thing we can do to regulate the number if we are not prepared to discuss whether we decide for ourselves who we take. That is why the Liberal Alliance is voting in favour of this proposal and we are also prepared to engage in dialogue with the government and others if there is a desire to take further initiatives. Unfortunately, I think that will be the consequence if the majority of the Danish Parliament continues to refuse to help more in the neighbourhood and to take fewer people in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126143232	There is a brief comment from Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126143236	I would like to discuss how we try to create as good integration as possible in Denmark, and some of what I think is important is that the young people who either come to Denmark or are born here in Denmark by parents who have been on the run are trained. I really think that all experience shows that it makes sense for young people to take an education. That is why I also think it is so unfortunate that this bill removes the possibility that education will give points when you save, if I may say so, for a permanent residence permit. What is the Liberal Alliance's position on that change? I ask because the Socialists said that they were actually against it, but that they had nevertheless decided to vote in favour. If the situation is the same with the Liberal Alliance, i.e. if the Liberal Alliance also thinks it is quite stupid to lay the groundwork for young people's educational opportunities, then there is, in fact, a majority against the government on this point, and then we could start a dialogue.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126143335	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126143337	I would like to have a dialogue, including with Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen, and I am listening to what is being said. But I don't think we're gonna set foot for young people's education by doing this. In fact, I think it is good that Danish society also offers education to people who have a non-permanent residence. And I think it is important that we do something about the integration part. We do, among other things. by offering people education. We do, among other things. by getting people into the labour market. That is why we are so sorry that the Minister for Finance has already said that this issue of integration pay does not seem to him to be part of the tripartite negotiations. It would have been excellent if we had made an easy way for new refugees to enter the Danish labour market, because precisely education, which the Enhedslisten's rapporteur takes up, and jobs that I now take up, are two of the most important things if we are to have integration. But we are not going to make a new agreement, yes, we cannot, nor are we going to vote on it in a few minutes, so we stand by the agreement that has now been reached or has not been reached as it is now. At least we have an understanding with the government about this bill, and we stand by it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126143448	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126143451	I am also very happy to live in a society where you have access to education. I can't believe we're so lucky we were born in a society where we could get an education. I think that right should apply as much to children and young people whose parents came to Denmark many years ago as for example. refugees. Well, we are talking about children, many of whom were born here in Denmark, and they are now told: Listen, my friend, if you want a permanent residence permit, you are not getting points on education. You get points on unskilled work. Thinks sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll and the Liberal Alliance that it would be good for integration or bad for integration to send that message to young people, many of whom may have been born in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126143532	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126143537	I believe that those who, to use the examples that Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen mentioned earlier, spoke of, for example. would like to read to the educator, is already so integrated that they are going to take the pedagogic education, regardless of whether we pass this bill in a while or not. On the other hand, I think it is good to send a strong signal to some of those who may otherwise shop a little in education that it is actually better to take a job and get started if that is what you are able to do. And we believe that self-reliance is the starting point for obtaining permanent residence permits.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126143611	Sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126143616	I'd like to ask you a few questions about the plan launched by the Liberal Alliance the other day. I mean, I think it's exciting, and the principle of saying, like saying, that we have to help more people for the same money in the neighbourhood, and all that I think everyone can agree on. But I also think the plan seems ill-thought out. I simply do not think it seems as if the consequences have been thought to the end. I think it seems like such a press stunt. You also got a front page on Berlingske, and congratulations on that. But I have two questions that I will take one at a time. The first question is this: let us now say that the Liberal Alliance got this through and convinced the rest of us in here that it was a good idea for Denmark to step out of the refugee convention, at least for two years. The next day a woman lands with her children at Kastrup Airport, or she arrives somewhere else. She has just escaped from sex slavery in the Islamic State, where she has been trapped for the past six months, and is therefore deadly in her homeland or may end up there again. So what does Denmark do with this person?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126143716	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126143721	I think it is a pity now that the political rapporteur for the Enhedslisten invited us to dialogue that we would end up in controversy. After all, no one comes from the Islamic State with direct flights to Denmark. There isn't. It is not possible to make a direct route from Islamic State to Denmark, and therefore no one comes directly from Islamic State to Denmark, because they get over something, and if you've gotten over something that's a safe country and that's usually what happens when you come to Denmark; most of them have been in a safe country before they get here, you have to stay in this safe country.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126143802	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126143804	I think it was well tried, but what I understand the rapporteur is that the person should then return to this safe country. This presupposes that this safe country will welcome the person concerned, and the rapporteur knows very well that the problem is that the countries which are typically neighbouring countries do not want to receive more refugees, because they have already done so. So can't we just have an honest talk about this? It's not like I'm gonna shoot down your proposal, but I just think you should be honest about this. It is not possible to send such a person back to neighbouring countries. So to the last question. Let us now say that neighbouring countries were actually inspired by the Liberal Alliance's proposal and thought it was a very good idea and would also step out of the refugee convention. Let us say that Lebanon said: out with you we will no longer be part of the Refugee Convention. According to the rapporteur, would it get more or less refugees to Europe and to Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126143849	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126143853	As far as I am aware, Lebanon is not a member of the Refugee Convention, but that is another aspect of the matter. And by the way, thank you for the character that was given in the first place. Having said that, I would just like to say that there is a carrier responsibility for flights outside Schengen. That is already the case today, and that is a good thing. That means that those who come will come at the German border or from a Schengen country, and if there are problems and the borders cease to work, we will have to introduce carrier responsibility within Schengen. That's all there is to do. In addition, tools have been given to enable the government to do so if necessary. But I think that if we adopt what we have proposed, there will be very few at all, because then they will go to a lot of Enhedslisten's pioneering countries instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126143941	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. And then it is the rapporteur for the alternative, Mrs Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126143958	Thank you. Much has already been said, both here from the platform and in the media, about the legislative proposal we are now considering. It is therefore my assumption and hope that at this stage there is no doubt about the basic position of the Alternative on both the content of the bill and the assumptions on which the bill is based, as well as the intended effects of the bill. And that's why the alternative doesn't support this bill. If I do take the floor today at the third reading, it is because I want to highlight the extraordinary nature of this proposal, which I consider, in line with several hundred pages of consultation, which we have received for the legislative proposal. L 87 has far-reaching consequences for the people who are specifically affected by the austerity, but also for Denmark as a nation outside, but also within. With this bill, the government understands that they consider that the Danish cohesion is threatened as a consequence of the current influx of refugees into the country. And therefore it is necessary to create laws that make Denmark less attractive as escape destination. It is therefore necessary for Denmark's cohesion to adopt L 87. Here I have to say that the government and the alternative do not share the same understanding of what creates cohesion in our society. In the alternative, we do not understand cohesion as a scarce resource that we need to protect, something that we need to keep other people away from to ensure. On the contrary, cohesion for us is something that is created every day between people who want each other across similarities and differences. There are very many people today who are making a huge contribution to creating this meeting, including with our refugees. These are the ones we need to support with our legislation, and that is the development that we need to support. If we have a stronger and more coherent society in 5, 10 or 15 years, it is in our optics, despite this bill, and because of the many people in civil society and in the business world who, fortunately, are doing a fantastic job of welcoming new people. So yes, we must strengthen the cohesion and safeguard it when we meet positions that challenge it. But that also means that we ourselves have to live it out and practice it every day. It is not the number of people who challenge the cohesion, it is the way we think and talk about each other who do it. With this bill, we are helping to make a further contribution to the fragmentation, marginalisation and stigmatisation of a group of people in our society. We are further isolating refugees and foreigners, and we are doing so socially, economically and rhetorically. We stigmatize and suspect refugees when we meet them with searching and confiscation of property as the first welcome. We isolate people in camps and in solitude by not allowing them to be reunited with their families, leaving families instead in uncertainty and insecurity in war or in overcrowded and not functioning camps. We are at a time of wrestling and when international crises mean that we have to deal with a new situation. I'll give you that. And so do we in the Alternative; we fully admit that this is a new issue. However, we must have the courage to know that we can create a future where there is a place for all of us and where the fact that there are new ones does not necessarily mean that our own place is threatened. It is when we confuse fear with realism that we risk compromising ourselves and what we stand for. It is fear, not people on the run, which in this context is the greatest threat to Denmark's cohesion. Unfortunately, this bill speaks into that fear. We legitimise the deterioration of a group of people who so much need security and gratitude by referring to them as a threat to our society and our cohesion. It is not good for the people who come here, it is not good for the integration it is not good for the cohesion force. That is why the alternative does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126144412	Sir. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126144416	It might be interesting to find out what this fantasy world is in which the alternative lives. So, there are a lot of people coming to Denmark, and a lot of people have come to our country from cultures that are very different from Danish culture. It has created ghettos, it has created tensions, it has created a large number of integration problems. And the only thing you hear from the alternative is that what is on the table is useless, and it sends out unfortunate signals into the big world. That is why it is tempting to ask the rapporteur: is there in the optics of the alternative no limit to how many people we can receive in Denmark who come up with quite different conditions to understand how a Western society is connected?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126144501	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126144504	I think it is wrong to fall into that trap of talking numbers. What we need to do much more here in the Folketing is to discuss how we accept the people who are coming. As far back as September, we have presented a five-point plan on how to deal with the refugee situation, and that is, among other things, as I know the DF also wants, by making a much larger and substantial contribution to the neighbourhood. It is one of the ways to limit the number of people who come to Denmark. However, we must accept properly the new citizens coming to Denmark, and we are not doing so at the moment with this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126144542	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126144545	I just don't know what to say. The Danish People's Party also believes that support should be provided in the neighbourhoods. I think there is quite a broad consensus on this in the Assembly. However, if the instruments of legislation and the instruments which we have the opportunity to adopt in this Chamber were completely ignored, and only increased support in the neighbourhood and did nothing else, people would still be able to come here. Because there are some people, and you can't think about that in the case of those who want to take the chance to see if they can have a better life in Denmark or anywhere else in Europe. Therefore, I just think that the alternative owes us an answer to how many people they think can be accommodated in the Danish society • people who come from cultures, where just everything else is quite different in order to understand how a society is connected, in order to understand and respect the values we have in Denmark. There's gotta be some upper limit somewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126144633	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126144636	I simply believe that the Danish People's Party and the alternative come from quite different starting points. I don't think that's a secret. So when I say that we want to support in the neighbourhood, it also means that we believe that more money needs to be spent. We simply need to spend more money in general, including in the neighbourhoods. We would also like to spend more money here in Denmark. If you look back in history, you can see that people who have come to Denmark have helped to improve and create the welfare we have in Denmark today. What we're doing now with this bill is we're shutting ourselves down and we think this welfare is something we have to be careful about.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126144710	Sir. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126144714	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. It was interesting to hear about the obligations of the Folketing to a large number of groups living outside the country's borders. One thing I think we did not hear so much about, and I would ask that now: do we as Parliament have any obligations towards Danish citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126144733	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126144736	We have a great obligation, both to Danish citizens and to the refugees and immigrants who come here. We need to start talking each other up. Everyone in this society makes a difference and has to be a part of making a difference, and that's what we are very much involved in hitting in this Parliament. It is we who are setting the framework for how civil society and how our fellow citizens around the municipalities can help treat each other. The way we hit it now is in my optics a failed way of doing it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126144808	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126144811	It was an answer with a high lix number and a great complexity, so I'm trying to ask again. Do we not, as Danish politicians, have an obligation to protect Danish women and Danish contributors to the welfare state for many decades, including the Jewish population, which can also get into trouble, as has been seen in reports from many places?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126144831	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126144835	I do not quite understand the question in the context in which it is part of this debate. We have a very good police force, we have a very good rule of law, we have a very good judicial system which helps to protect our entire society, and that applies to all citizens of Denmark. This also applies to refugees and immigrants coming to Denmark. Everyone will be included in that system.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126144854	Then it's mr. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126144901	Someone like me who has followed the debate since the unfortunate refugee law in 1983, which destroyed so many things, has heard the view expressed by the rapporteur, so one would almost think that nothing had happened since 1983 when this debate began, because it was said that it is the Danes' fears that are giving birth to the problems of Danish society. Now we have Mr. Martin Henriksen, my colleague in the party, who asks the rapporteur: where does the alternative go, compared with how many people can come to Denmark? When you look at the ghetto areas and the miserable integration effort that has simply not worked and the lack of integration among some of the people who have come, you still say away, among other things. In this bill, it's fear that gives birth to all the problems. That's not the truth at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126144957	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126145000	I take the view that this bill is not conducive to anything. It brings it, you can say, and you can admit it to the government, and that's why they've put this bill in motion... that it scares people in countries that would want to flee here because they need it because they can't stay in their home countries. That's what this bill is for. In relation to fear, I think, too, sir. Christian Langballe himself knows that fear is rarely rooted in good things. Fear is not able to open up and see how to solve the issues in a different way. After all, we have a number of proposals on how to deal with these issues in a different way.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126145045	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126145048	I can confess that I have the clear position that my responsibility as a Danish politician sitting in the Danish Parliament is to pass this society on to my children and grandchildren and the descendants who come later in a proper and responsible manner. Then the rapporteur stands up there and says that it is the fear and concern that many Danes have that creates the problem, while at no time has there been any indication that there is a limit. I certainly believe that there is a limit, but I also believe that what the rapporteur is saying is such a programme from the hippie collective that there is room for everyone, and there is not.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126145127	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126145130	I also take the view that I would like to pass on a good society to my children and grandchildren, etc. Now I don't have any children myself, but my siblings, for example, do. I would also very much like to pass on a good society. A society that talks down to people, discourages people, etc. is not a good society in my optics. And there I think we each have our own starting point in where we come from.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126145154	Then it's mr. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126145158	Thank you. Does the rapporteur think that the refugees who come to Denmark have some sort of responsibility for contributing to a good society and contributing to this cohesion that the rapporteur is calling for?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126145215	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126145218	Yes, of course I mean it, and we should then give them the opportunity to do so. And we don't do that with this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126145221	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126145224	How does the rapporteur feel about contributing to this cohesion when you come to Denmark, a safe and secure country, and signing off on breaking the laws of the country, complaining that the society to which you have never contributed a single penny does not provide enough money, does not give refugees a proper luxury accommodation that has been promised? How does the rapporteur feel about contributing to this cohesion when, from day one, you start to long for society because it is not good enough for you?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126145257	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126145300	Well, that's what I think is a violent generalization. I haven't heard dozens of refugees stand up and say it. One of the things we would like to see if they could contribute is that, from day one, we would really like them to be cleared up and then we would like them to be matched with the country's companies. We know that there are many companies that really, really want to take this workforce, and that means that they have to enter the labour market as soon as possible. It is also an intention, so to speak, as the government has. We just think that it is some other measures that need to be taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126145327	Then it's Mrs. Mette Bock, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126145335	Thank you. I fully share the rapporteur's view that we should treat the people who come to Denmark properly. However, can the rapporteur not share the concern that, if we are to receive 25 000 to 30.000 people a year for the next many years and then have family reunification, thus risking a division in our society, risk isolation, risk extremism, run the risk of contradictions, which can be extremely difficult to deal with?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126145407	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126145410	I think we need to recognise that we are in a new era and I also believe that as a society in Denmark we must recognise that we need to spend some resources on this. Now there has been a lot of talk about European solutions and global solutions, and we fully agree with that. But there is only the question of why we are not taking the lead as a country, why we are not taking the lead and taking the initiative to address those solutions. We have tried this in the alternative together with several other parties. We will, for example: would like to have arrival centers on both sides of the Mediterranean. That is why I cannot stand here and say 'yes' or 'no' to a specific figure. I just don't think the way we deal with it today is the right one. We must also recognise that throughout the past, refugees and immigrants have helped to create the society that we have today. I believe that new refugees and immigrants can help create an even better future society. But that means that in here, as Parliament, we must also give civil society the opportunity to welcome these refugees in a good way.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126145509	Mrs. Mette Bock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126145512	I fully agree that Denmark has taken huge inspiration from abroad for centuries, and we must continue to do so. The problem with this debate is that it divides families, it divides societies, it divides parties, it divides international cooperation. We have to face this and if we do not assume a responsibility to have so much control over how many people we have to take care of integrating into our society, so the task has a reasonable chance of succeeding, then the risk is precisely that this will slip away and that we will destroy the society that we should have a common interest in being able to preserve for many years to come also for the sake of those who come to our country.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126145559	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126145602	Then I almost want to ask Mrs Mette Bock a rhetorical question: does Mrs Mette Bock think that this is the way to do it, where we talk down and down, where we constantly question whether it is real refugees who are coming or whether they are not just immigrants etc.? We disagree entirely with the alternative that this is the way to do it. We believe that we should have a positive approach. We believe that the people who come to the country should be seen as a resource. We must ensure that they are integrated, we must get them into the labour market quickly. The first thing refugees meet when they come to the country, and that's what's included in this bill, for example, is that we have to confiscate their valuables. We don't think this is the right way to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126145638	Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126145645	The rapporteur has repeatedly been asked whether there is a limit to how many refugees and migrants Denmark can receive, and has not given an answer to that question, but is talking about the fact that we have to talk about the situation, that we have to address it positively. Can the rapporteur speak up Danish resources? Will the rapporteur confirm that it costs to receive people, to integrate people? The Rockwool Foundation has said 16 billion. kr. is the additional cost of non-Western immigrants who wanted to go to Denmark in 2014. What is the method that the Alternative will use? What kind of word can speak up Danish gross domestic product? What kind of word can make cultural differences disappear so that integration is not a problem? Can I have the solution? I'd like the spell. Is that sesame, sesame, open up? Where is that word?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126145735	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126145738	I'm afraid I can't give the questioner what's going on, sesame, open up. After all, we know that refugees and immigrants can become a resource. The questioner himself mentions that adult people who come to Denmark can actually be a gain for society in relation to calculating it from childhood with crèches, day care facilities, etc. etc. That's the way I think we should go. I think we should ensure that the new citizens are integrated. I think we should make sure that they are taken to work. Thus they will also pay taxes, thereby helping to contribute to our future welfare society.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126145820	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126145821	No one may disagree that we need good integration. But the question is whether we can integrate the whole world, whether there has to be a limit. And the question is whether a new spell has been found which should make it possible in the future, because so far it has only succeeded to a very, very limited extent. It is not only in Denmark; it is also in the other European countries. We see the same thing: it is costly and it is difficult to integrate non-western immigrants and migrants. The question is therefore: what is the limit? How many can we receive?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126145902	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126145903	Well, I can't answer that. I think I've made that clear too. I have said, and I have done so from up here, that we would like to spend more money in the neighbourhood. We do not understand that development aid is being cut back. We would really like to spend more money here in Denmark too to ensure that we have proper integration. That's what it takes. And then they help to develop our welfare societies. I think that's where we look at it differently. There is, as I understand the question, as if there is some particular border, and if we get one more into the country than that, the whole of our welfare society will collapse. That is not how we see the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126145940	Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126145942	As I understood the rapporteur's speech, the rapporteur said that Denmark stigmatises refugees, among other things. Because we have control at our borders. Does the rapporteur not agree that, while we have border controls, we can also catch potential terrorists, at least the probability is greater for that and that if we do not have control over who is coming to Denmark, we do not know who is coming, including potential terrorists?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126150011	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126150012	Now I've been down to see it myself, among other things. Where we control at the German border and if you are a potential terrorist, I think you would choose to go about. 100 m to the right, and then you would cross over the field there. In other words, the border controls, which are a sample check, unfortunately I do not think can prevent any terrorists from coming to Denmark. And there, of course, I hope to PET etc. I've got it under control. The border checks are not what will prevent them from doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126150044	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126150046	It would also be nice if we had permanent border controls. But then I would like to ask the rapporteur something else in relation to the welfare society that we have built up here in Denmark. Does the rapporteur not agree that the more Denmark has to provide for, the more costs it will get, and that it will hit our own citizens, that is. elderly people, people with disabilities, etc.? That is what we have also heard from various mayors around the municipalities, that is, the more there are, the more costs there are. There is only one large cash box, and it is a total cash box, and that is why this will also hit our own citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126150126	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126150127	Well, that's where I've tried to say that they can also become a resource, and that's what we have to work on. That is why we must get them into the labour market immediately; we must integrate them. I do not know if there are any members of parliament other than me who read the wonderful article that was in Berlingske I think it was the day before yesterday about a bricklayer's company that had Mo employed, who lived up to it and who worked well and so on. And that's the way we're going. I believe that the future refugee/immigrant population can help strengthen our welfare society, so that it also benefits Danish Mrs Hansen, who goes to nursing homes.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126150207	Then it's Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126150211	There is a budgetary framework of 48 billion. kr. Until 2020. Is the rapporteur not afraid that the task will be so great that we simply cannot help all those who come here, no matter how much we want to?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126150227	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126150228	Again: I want to have the opportunity to see these people as a resource. And I would also like to endorse the comments that have been made from up here that we need to work together to create European solutions, to create global solutions. But it's going to cost money no matter how we choose to see it. In fact, I think there is a debate here in the Parliamentary Chamber where it has, as it were, been talked down to either-or, and we can save a lot of money if they stay away. No, because then we will have to spend all our money in the vicinity because we cannot stop this flow of refugees. There's a break-up in the world, we're going to go to new times. In other words, whether we like it or not, we need money. Then all we have to do is spend all our money in the vicinity if we stop it completely at the Danish border.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126150314	Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126150317	Now it is quite common knowledge that we can help many more and much better in the neighbourhood. That means that if we help in the neighbourhood, we can spend considerably less money and yet help more. Where will all the money we need if they come here come from? And who's gonna pay them, who's gonna get hurt? What about our own welfare society, it can continue to exist under such pressure if we get an expense of 48 billion? kr. By 2020? How does the rapporteur view this whole context?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126150350	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126150351	Well, as I said once, we have to recognise that we are facing a new era. There are flows of refugees along the way, massively, and if we believe that by closing the borders we can avoid paying a bill, then I would say that we cannot. We'll both pay here in Denmark to those who come to Denmark... they'll have to be taken care of... and then we'll be investing in the neighborhoods.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126150412	Then it's mr. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126150414	My question is in relation to the mention of Denmark in the international media. The rapporteur's party colleague, Uffe Elbæk, said to Canadian radio in connection with the process of L 87 that what is happening at the moment is somewhat similar to what happened in the 1930s. Does the rapporteur agree with that? Is that the alternative's attitude?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126150441	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126150443	As I have seen what my party chairman said, it was that the bill that is on the table here gives pictures in people's heads that might remind me of the 1930s. If you read the comments on the proposal, you can read that the government with the bill wants to frame... asylum conditions and access to Denmark, so that it becomes significantly less attractive to apply to Denmark. As a result, the bill is intended as a signal to the people who live in the world and who would like to flee to Denmark, that they should experience that it becomes significantly less attractive to apply to Denmark. And so the bill is also used to give the people pictures in their heads.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126150533	Sir. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126150534	The rapporteur has just to explain to me what the pictures are from the 1930s. Can the rapporteur not be specific? What kind of images do we have here, just a single picture, like what we're doing now, creating Nazism in the 1930s?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126150549	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126150550	The interview on which it was asked was given at the time when it was a question of being able to take wedding rings. Now I have to sit back a little so I can see the caller from people. It was part of the Danish debate, and DF was among others. out saying that you should be able to. It was in this context that the interview was given. And you have to say that is an image you can know from the 1930s that you could get in your head.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126150620	Then it is Mrs Susanne Eilersen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126150623	Thank you. I'd like to get back to the economics thing. There is such a fine program on TV 3, called the Luxury Trap, I do not know if the rapporteur is aware of it, and there is the fact that people are involved because they simply borrow and spend and spend the money, and all of a sudden everything is shut down and they have to go from house to home. It is the case that you can not only spend the money but also find it and earn it back. Now the rapporteur has said on many occasions that we are spending all the money abroad. Will the rapporteur overlook the fact that KL and the municipalities are out to say that they have an incredibly large task that they cannot solve financially? It is also a question of their lack of hands, both in health care, in the school system and in all sorts of other places. Will the rapporteur not take any action at all on what the KL is doing?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126150714	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126150716	Yes, I would certainly like to, and I do not think I said that we should only spend money abroad, because then I have at least been misunderstood a great deal. I just said that I think we have to recognise that we have a bill that we have to pay and that we have to pay forward, both in Denmark and abroad. And yes, we also think that the municipalities should be supported in the task they face in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126150738	Mrs. Susanne Eilersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126150739	But I do not think I heard the rapporteur say where the money should come from. After all, we are all aware that this integration has not been successful for 30 years, and we are aware that only four out of ten non-western immigrants are working after living in Denmark for 10 years. What is the rapporteur's position on the fact that the resources that the rapporteur is talking about may not be present, and what are we doing?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126150805	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126150806	Well, that's where we think you have to invest in the future, and that's what I've been trying to say. We need to make a significantly better effort to get these new Danes, as they so become, into the labour market. They need to be clarified immediately, and a match needs to be made with the companies. We know, for example, that Danish Industry has come up with a large number of proposals that we can support in the alternative. In relation to the economic situation, I am surprised that the Danish People's Party has voted in favour of the re-priority contribution which will prevent the municipalities from keeping their money. One of the things we would like to see in the alternative is, of course, one of them. to ensure that the money is located in the municipalities so that they can budget with it themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126150842	There is therefore no further brief comment to the rapporteur of the alternative, and then it is the rapporteur of the Radical Left, Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126150854	Thank you. Khaterah Parwani, a very talented Danish debater who works with anti-radicalism, quoted his father yesterday on Facebook. He was sitting watching television and talking to it a little while while the government presented its policy in the European Parliament. I think we all know about the fact that you sit and talk to the TV and he said: 'They live in a parallel world, inside Christiansborg. These people are fleeing from war and terror. The truth is, material possessions are insignificant to these people. If someone asked me, as a father, if I would give up all your mother's gold jewelry to get my family to safety, then I would answer: "I am willing to give up my own life to get my family to safety, so tell me what you want from me? You want my wife's jewelry? Do you want my irreplaceable and precious collection of historical books that I have traveled around Afghanistan to find because my country's literary heritage was plundered, burned or hidden underground? Or do you want my organs, which are worth more than jewelry in certain markets? ▪ They do not communicate their policy at eye level with an understanding of the reality these people are fleeing from. They have simply not realised that the world outside small Denmark can be so barbaric. They have nothing left, and the policy that is being laid down is only about humiliation. Think about it. They test the willingness of refugees to sacrifice after they have lost their country, their loved ones and all that man loves. They simply allow themselves to test in such a situation. It tests refugees on how much they want peace and security. What are they willing to give up? Quote out. When we first dealt with the bill here, I quoted Franklin Roosevelt's words about fear: The only thing we have to fear is fear itself. The bill we are discussing today is pure fear. It doesn't solve any problems. It is not about the future, and we must actually do so if we want to meet people. I understand that a lot of people are getting worried at the moment, and so am I. What's it gonna end with? How do we figure this out? But the answer from the government is symbol politics and a race to the bottom. The bill postpones the family reunification of a small group of refugees to 3 years, plus waiting time, also for children coming alone, the same children who will then have to save up to bring their mother or father here, because we will no longer help with it in Denmark. It cuts the allowance for asylum seekers by 10%, it is 90 øre less a week; as if it were going to make any difference. It's just symbolic politics. And in between the many symbols there are then a number of completely incomprehensible so-called tightenings. So you can take values from refugees and no longer just money, but they must not work to contribute to society. It's not just a paradox, it's incomprehensible. To get a permanent stay, it doesn't count on taking an education anymore. Education should not count in a country where we have made it a prerequisite for us to live, no, you should rather remain unskilled. That makes no sense whatsoever in relation to what we need as a society and which we all instill in our children. Refugee children who come here alone but who can live with an uncle are forced to stay at the asylum centre for the first six months, even if it costs more and even if the Red Cross recommends something else. It's done meaningless. So I just have to say today that a large majority in the Danish Parliament is dictated by the Danish People's Party, so respect for your influence on value policy, I would say to Mr. Martin Henriksen, it's gone all the way over to you. Sometimes, and it may be that I've been thinking about this before, I'm thinking: can you develop the next steps of politics before your proposal is taken over by other parties? But I know you can. You've done that before, and it still doesn't solve any problems. This makes the integration task much more expensive, but it does not relate at all to how we manage the influx to Europe. Because we can only do that by working together, not by isolating ourselves. Radical Left votes against L 87 today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126151400	Then it's first, sir. Dan Jørgensen, the Social Democrats, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126151405	Yes, I understood from the rapporteur that there was some dissatisfaction with the fact that I quoted the rapporteur's President, Morten Østergaard, who, when these proposals were presented by the government, said that Sweden is a pioneer country when it comes to refugees. I also asked when we had first reading, and then the rapporteur did not deny that this was the case. So perhaps we could clarify: does the rapporteur disagree with his President or has the President been misquoted because it is a literal quote or what is up and down? Do you think Sweden is a pioneering country in this area, or not?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126151442	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126151443	I also just checked the quote, because of course I fully share the view that the Social Democrat rapporteur thinks it is really funny. And my President has quite rightly said that Sweden is in many ways a pioneer country in the sense that they have undertaken a huge task in relation to refugees. I fully agree with him on that. Sweden has undertaken a huge task in taking responsibility for the influx of refugees that has come to Europe. Is it the same as I think that we should conduct Swedish policy in all areas? No, it's not.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126151523	Sir. Dan Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126151524	I can assure the rapporteur that this is not something I think is funny. On the contrary, I think it is very, very serious. When I bring it up, it is because one of the reasons why we are making the legislation we are making today is to avoid ending up in the same situation as Sweden. It is possible that the Radical Left believes that it is a pioneer country that does what Sweden does, but we certainly do not think so. What Sweden has done is that they have accepted so many people because they have not made the restrictions that we are now doing that they are now in a situation where they are de facto putting the right of asylum out of effect. That means that if you get on the run and have no idea, you can't get into Sweden, no matter what. So what do the Radical Left really have of alternatives to ensure that we do not get into that situation when we do not support the bill today?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126151610	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126151610-2	Well, that's exactly what's at the heart of everything. That's what Mr. Dan Jørgensen's support is that for many years, we have been passing the problems on to other countries for a long time, and that is why we have not, according to Mr Jørgensen, been able to do so. Dan Jørgensen, one must understand, had to tighten, but now we have to, because now Sweden cannot take any more. But there is only one thing about this: there are still more Even with the latest austeritys more refugees are still coming to Denmark, and that will continue to be the case. You cannot shut down the tap if you do not relate to Europe's external borders. And as long as you don't want to get into that discussion and just say that we who are only talking about it aren't down on the ground, you have to relate to the fact that there is no Danish rooster with which you can turn the influx up and down.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126151706	Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126151710	After all, there is disagreement in the Folketing on these issues, and there is debate and discussion, and that is as it should be. That's democracy. However, there are also some who are making an effort to have the discussion held in the European Parliament in Brussels and in Strasbourg, and that the European Union should take a position on Danish immigration policy. There are two radical Members of the European Parliament, and you can understand from the press and the e-mails they have exchanged down there that they want the Prime Minister of the country, Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, must stand for the European Parliament and explain himself about Danish foreign policy. It is two radical Members of the European Parliament who want this sort of thing. Do they have support for it from the radical parliamentary group here at Christiansborg?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126151759	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126151800	Yes, these are two radical Members of the European Parliament. We are very pleased with them. We have doubled our group in the European Parliament recently, and we are very, very pleased about that. And, of course, they have support for radical politics as far as possible and show that there are politicians in Denmark who want to take a different line, politicians who want to take responsibility for Denmark coming to the future with a policy different from that of the Folketing today. It is then as political as the questioner emphasised. We are taking the political debate. We in the Folketing do that, and so do they in the European Parliament, which is a parliament just like ours.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126151846	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126151848	After all, it is with parliaments that they are debating and then they decide. And it is my view that the matters discussed today in the Parliamentary Assembly should be decided by the Folketing and not by the European Parliament. Is it the radical view that the European Parliament should decide these things? That one should decide from Brussels or Strasbourg, or where one is this week, what we are discussing in this Chamber today? Why should the European Parliament also have to debate what we are discussing in Parliament today?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126151920	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126151922	It is my firmest view that every parliament in the world has the right to have a debate on any subject, and it is also my very clear view that the flow of refugees to Europe is a challenge that goes beyond borders. It is not a Danish challenge, it is not a French challenge, it is not a German challenge, it is a European challenge. And that is why it is quite obvious and obvious that the European Parliament, which is the elected assembly we have in the European Union as long as we are there, also has a discussion on the issues that are moving in Europe when it comes to refugees.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126152001	Then it is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126152004	The rapporteur says that Sweden is a pioneering country. And we only have to look to Sweden to see how things have gone there. I would like to hear from the radical rapporteur how many billions of Danish citizens will have to pay for the integration that the Radicals want.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126152022	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126152024	I have been looking forward to that question, because I have asked the Danish People's Party several times and I will come back to it • what it will cost to make the detention camps that the Danish People's Party imagines refugees will be staying for years in Denmark. It is my very clear view that it will be extremely expensive. And what we have to deal with is that right now more refugees are coming to Denmark than ever before. There is, although the Danish People's Party is a parliamentary basis for the government. And this means that more refugees are currently in Denmark than have ever been. I think we should deal with that. This requires that we turn it around completely and say that there must be clear demands, clear expectations and that we must work from day one. This is the only way to get refugees to contribute fully and completely to society, and then it will be a small expense. But I fully agree with Mrs Adsbøl that this is an expense. The question is, how will it be as low as possible?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126152133	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126152135	[Sound emission]... that the rapporteur does not answer how many billions this is going to cost the Danish citizens. I would then like to ask the rapporteur a question in relation to the article in Jyllands-Posten the other day, where Henrik Sass Larsen has come to his senses. And I quote Henrik Sass Larsen from the headline in Jyllands-Posten: I give priority to the Danes and the well-being and prosperity of the Danes than I give priority to the refugees. • Sometimes you can doubt what the Radicals want. How do the Radicals give priority to this in relation to the influx we see of Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126152214	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126152214-2	Well, I would like to answer Mrs Karina Adsbøl's first question again if it was not clear to Mrs Adsbøl. It will cost as few millions as possible to integrate into Denmark, and that means integration into employment from day one, because there will be more than ever before. And that is also an answer to Question No. 2. I am deeply concerned that we can develop our welfare society in the future • develop it, protect it, preserve it. And I am absolutely convinced that we will only do so if we get the refugees who are already in Denmark to work. For the solution to intercept them for 10 years becomes quite insanely expensive for all Danish taxpayers.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126152259	Then it's mr. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126152302	As I know the Radical Left, it is a party with a certain economic sense, and also a party that shares the view that 1 DKK. can only be used once. If you do not want to limit the influx of refugees to Denmark, does the Radical Left recognise that this will necessarily lead to increased expenditure on refugee efforts in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126152331	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126152332	I think the rapporteur has misunderstood something. I haven't sent out any invitations in the world to invite refugees to Denmark. I would very much like to limit the number of refugees in Denmark, because I think that Europe's countries have a much greater responsibility to lift that burden among themselves, and I fully recognise and recognise that it can be reduced if people get far, much faster at work, and it can be greater if people are interned in camps on public support. These are the scales we need to put our lot in. That's where I think we're going. It's the only way to turn that rooster. And then we have to get them to work really quickly in Denmark instead of interning them in camps, because that is the only way to get the price down for the benefit and pleasure of Danish taxpayers.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126152434	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126152436	Let us now play that we live in the real world, where, historically, we have never been able to get refugees to have an employment rate as high as that of ordinary Danes, where the European Parliament is moving in exactly the opposite direction to a common European solution and where European countries are fighting against pan-European solutions and do not want them. Can we not deal with that reality and then ask how we should navigate it instead of in it, where we believe in international solutions that never come and believe in getting refugees who do not want to go to work?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126152511	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126152512	That's exactly the reality I'm in. The reality of detention camp, which people must sit for 10 or 15 years, is then a reality that is completely on the moon. Perhaps that is also where the Danish People's Party would like the refugees to be, but they do not. They are here, exactly in our country; they are here now. How will the Danish People's Party deal with this task without becoming expensive? I want us to deal with the solutions that are already on the table. The Dutch Presidency of the European Union is currently negotiating harshly, and this is not a solution that means that everyone is always treated finely and well, and just like they do in Denmark. There are plenty of hands down to mess with real policy here, and of course that will mean that some will have to go to a country other than Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126152603	Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126152606	According to Radio24seven today, the Radical Left Member of the European Parliament, Jens Rohde, has misled his group in the European Parliament on the position of the Institute for Human Rights to L 87. Is the story in Radio24seven wrong?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126152624	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126152625	I've been in the Assembly Hall for most of the day. I haven't heard Radio24seven.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126152631	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126152632	If the history of Radio24syv is correct, what does the Radical Left intend to do to a member of the party who deliberately misleads its committee?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126152647	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126152648	I think the rapporteur can hear for himself what kind of path he is on his way out of. I have no idea what has been played in Radio24seven, but I have overall complete and complete confidence in our Members of the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126152706	There is therefore no further brief comment to be made to the rapporteur on the Radical Left, and that is why we move on to the rapporteur on the SF, Mr von der Vring. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126152728	Thank you for the debate. I really think it's been exciting, perhaps most of all, because we haven't really discussed this bill. I mean, most of the debate has really been about us being parties saying we can't back this, that we don't think this is the right grip if you want to slow down the flow. And then we've been freed time and time again about what we're gonna do instead of dealing with the bill. So now I will promise you and I would also like to make a copy for everyone who should be interested that I will make my bids and SF's bids for what we think should be done. But first of all, I want to deal with the bill. It is because of the content of the legislative proposal that we cannot support it. We think it is wrong that people should only be able to have family reunification after 3 years, and we think that because family is one of the most important things for SF. I couldn't imagine a life where I would be without my family for three years. As I said at first reading, I find it difficult to do without my family for three weeks. I think it's stressful when we work so much in here that you don't always get to visit the family. So if you're trying to examine yourself, and you're being sober about what's missing your family for three years, you actually know what SF is against. We do not think it is fair that people should be without their families for three years. Then there is also a difference between when I lack my family at home in Køge and when people lack their family in war-torn areas. They must go for up to 3 years and know that their children or their wife or their children and wife are in a war-torn area, without knowing where it might end up. If you visit them like this, around the reception centers, they all say: We want to be an integral part of Denmark. We want to make an effort. We actually want to be a resource, but we can't think about anything but our family, because they're stranded in the middle of the chaos that's down there. That's why SF can't be in this bill, because we don't think it's fair that people should leave without their family for three years. Then there's the other part. It has been called jewelry law, and we have been criticised for being rhetorical, after which the Minister has amended the bill. After all, the Minister must be praised for this, and the Socialists must be commended for having taken up the fight. But it's still part of this bill. It is still part of the bill that if you have values for over 10,000 DKK, Danish officers must take them, collect them. Then, as in the classical style, because people are always kicking down in the political debate, they have tried to compare asylum seekers with cash aid recipients. But it's not the same. Because when you're an asylum seeker, you're not guaranteed asylum. In fact, many people do not get asylum. What about their values, they get them back? No. That's why we can't back this bill. And that's how I could go on. Now I have seen that the alternative praises Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen's speech, and I would really like to do so, because the Enhedslisten went through quite well the many things that are not good about this bill, and that is why we are voting against it. Then we can take it now here, and we can also take it over my copy out in the Snapsting • discuss what it is then that works, what the best solutions to solve the refugee crisis are. And there are really the best offers, because no one knows what the right answers are. I think it's pretty crazy that I should be standing here. This is perhaps the biggest crisis we have experienced in Europe's history since the Second World War. Now we stand and relate to it, and it sounds to some rapporteurs as if they have the final answers. But no one has. There are only the best bids, and the SF's bid is: we must fight for an EU solution. It has been produced as if it is something crazy fluffy, but it is not, because the fact that we have not had an EU solution means that Sweden has shut down. And that certainly means that more countries will shut down. I also have Denmark suspected of wanting to shut down at some point, and I actually believe that the EU solution will come from itself. But wouldn't it be better if we started implementing it as early as tomorrow? So what are we gonna do now? Well, I can walk around among the party presidents and make a joint statement that we want a common quota distribution, and then I can present it to the Prime Minister. However, the largest parties in this House do not want a common allocation of quotas in the EU, and then it is difficult. But that's our guess. In fact, we believe in a common allocation of quotas which is binding on the countries and in which all the promises, from Poland to Denmark to Sweden, are made. Then we will be discussing the Dublin Agreement in the European Union, and we will do so because it is true that there is something strange and wrong about refugees being able to travel through all sorts of countries today and then seek asylum in Scandinavia. I understand that seems strange, but it wasn't meant to be. We had a Dublin agreement, which was about registering in the first country that came to the European Union and then being distributed. SF still believes that, but it still requires us as a nation to go into the European Union and say: this is the solution we want. This has not yet been done, and there are increasing numbers of parties who say that they do not unequivocally support the Dublin Agreement. Then we also believe that the best offer is that we should make an area contribution to the neighbourhood. And I will be happy when there are parties, from the Liberal Alliance to the Social Democrats, that mention this. But where are the actual commandments? We have submitted a bid that was that one could raise the tax on the highest income from shares I know that the Liberal Alliance will certainly not be involved in that and then send an uncut contribution to the neighbourhoods. I will also be involved in discussing other models, but there are no concrete models on the table. Everyone says "neighborhoods" but nobody brings anything. So that is our best offer: we need to find concrete solutions to send more funds to the neighbourhood. Then we must improve integration, because the question of how many we can accept also depends on how we succeed with integration. If we do not get anyone into the labour market and if all those who go to receive classes never feel part of the school community they are part of, then we will not be able to take very many, because then it will be a challenge for the Danish community. But if we succeed in integrating them, they can actually end up being a resource. I just want to say: SF is ready to spend money on integration. For SF, it is not the goal that we should spend as little as possible on integration. And it is striking that the amount estimated by KL to be spent on integration over the next few years is the amount that has been cut in relation to the re-prioritisation contribution. You could start by returning that amount. As one last thing, you could also hire more staff. We saw last week that a number of asylum seekers wanted to return home. They had found out that they did not have the right to asylum at all. Well, why don't you let them come home? But they went and waited for their case to be dealt with because there is too little staff and that is not a criticism of the staff at all. So let us make a massive investment there so that we can get a faster procedure and get help for those who need help and send back those who are not entitled to asylum. Because actually, there's still a lot that doesn't. That's our guess. It doesn't solve the refugee crisis, but it's a bid that's as good as that bill where you force people not to see their family for three years.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126153534	Then it's first, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126153539	I have been increasingly puzzled by the rapporteur's speech in this Chamber. If the rapporteur really believes that the solution to the refugee crisis is a pan-European solution, then the rapporteur might as well believe in Santa Claus, because the pan-European solution does not come. The rapporteur is probably aware of the attempt to distribute 160 000 refugees. How many Eastern Europeans have wanted to receive? They didn't want to receive anyone. How, then, does the rapporteur think that such a pan-European solution should be possible in the real world, and where is it that the rapporteur believes that Santa Claus lives since he believes in him?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126153624	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126153626	I found out a long time ago that Santa didn't exist. I was very disappointed at that at the time. But I feel like it's again that's the best offer. I could turn it around and ask if it's not also believing in Santa Claus that this bill will mean something. Now the Danish People's Party has from the beginning of their reign, although they are not in government, but in their time in power has tightened and tightened. They have fought for this immediate braking, but it has not helped at all. It's just as much to believe in Santa Claus. I note that it will certainly not be easier to make a quota allocation when countries do not actively go in and fight for it, and that is what I am saying we should do right away. We should do this from today with the largest parties. Let the rest of us, who have been saying this all along, go to the European Union and say: we want a quota allocation. And then I fully understand that there will be some who do not want to lift in the European Union. That is why binding cooperation is important. Then they must be punished financially.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126153715	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126153719	Yeah, I guess so, sir. Jacob Mark can wave goodbye to the EU. Maybe it's not that crazy. But let us take that debate at a later stage. I just find it interesting to note that the integration policy recommended by the SF is in fact the integration policy pursued from 1983 to 2001 without any success whatsoever. How is it that the rapporteur imagines that in Denmark we could be able to integrate 37 500 people in one year? I would imagine that it might be interesting for those who are sitting and watching this debate behind the screens to find out: what does the rapporteur think?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126153751	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126153753	It's amazing you're asking. Now I come from a town where you have ghettos. You actually have four ghettos and you've had a lot of gang crime because you've made a number of mistakes in the past. I recognize that. But it is not us who are proposing refugee villages. That is precisely what will make us repeat the mistakes of the past by gathering people and not getting them out and being integrated. It is not we who want to raise the standards in the receiving classes, so that the individual learner becomes longer to learn the Danish language. That would be to repeat the mistakes of the past. We say: More teachers in the receiving classes, more educators in the day institutions, drop refugee villages and lead to an active housing policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126153829	Then it's mr. Naser Khader of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126153833	On 15 January, the rapporteur's SF chairman, Pia Olsen Dyhr, said: Young single men dominate asylum statistics and the SF will limit that. The party would rather see families coming to Denmark. How will the SF actually do that? The rapporteur did not mention this in his rapporteur's speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126153858	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126153900	It is nice to finally be allowed to tell you about it, because what it starts with is that we are looking at the asylum statistics, which show that there are a majority of men, and many of them are young, single men. I think it's 13,000 men and 4,000 women. We have a discussion in our party about whether that is reasonable. A lot has been discussed about this justice and who has the opportunity to escape, and we do not find any final bids, but we say that we would very much like to discuss how to make a fairer distribution forward-looking, but as my President is asked on television: how are you going to do this? she says: I do not have the final solution, but I would very much like to discuss it, but what I am sure of is that you will not get a fairer distribution by voting in favour of this bill, because it will mean precisely that women and children will not be able to come up here. That is also one of the reasons why we are voting against this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126153949	Sir. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126153951	It's a free round just to say we're gonna discuss it. You have to come up with some suggestions on how to do that. Other parties have made their proposals. It has not been said that we want to challenge the conventions. It has not been said directly that the current asylum system is rampantly unsolidarous towards refugees in general. After all, only those who are able to come here can obtain asylum. Can we not come up with solutions that are closer to the desire we have?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126154025	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126154027	Not at this stage, but I think it is true that it is going to be fluffy, I recognise that, but it is precisely because it was a discussion that started in our party office, and it is quite frankly when I stand here and say it: I think it is an interesting talk, how to ensure that there is a more balanced distribution, but it is also our guideline that we want it, and that is precisely why we are voting against it here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126154046	Then it's mr. Dan Jørgensen, the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126154049	Thank you. I have to say, it's kind of of offensive by Mr. Jacob Mark to start his speech by saying that now I come up with the big plan for what we are actually going to do and then fail to come up with the big plan for what we are actually going to do. What the rapporteur is referring to is a solution which could perhaps become something if the rapporteur could obtain a majority in this Parliament and we had a referendum and we had our reservations lifted and then we convinced all the other EU countries and then it could be implemented, despite the fact that the quota allocation that has been made now has only led to two hundred one or other refugees, which have actually been distributed out of 60 000. So it is not such a solution that is remedying the problems right now, and that is why the question to the rapporteur is: what is the SF really going to do to remedy the problems that I assume the rapporteur agrees with right now?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126154141	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126154143	That's funny, 'cause that's actually what I was trying to do. The way I presented it was aimed primarily at the Socialists, so I am sorry if I have failed, but it is precisely to say that I do not believe that what is working right now is working. I believe that the SF's bid is as suitable to work right now as the Social Democrats' bid is, because it has not worked. It has been tried here since the summer holidays, and the only thing that has come out of it is that refugees have worse and worse conditions and grow up in poverty. So if we are to have something that works right now, it is actually the proposals that I have just made, precisely that the Socialists, the Left, the SF and the rest of the parliamentary parties are going down into the European Union and are fighting for a common allocation of quotas. But the Socialists have never said in this Chamber that they want a common quota allocation, and then it is just going to be difficult.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126154224	Sir. Dan Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126154226	You want me to understand that, sir? Jacob Mark simply rejects the fact that what we are adopting now is going to have any effect on the number of foreigners who come here? Because no one here claims that it will lead to an immediate halt in the government, but I even think that even they have stopped using that expression. But what we are saying is that there will be fewer because of this legislation than would otherwise have come. I'll tell you what. Jacob Mark doesn't think so?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126154250	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126154252	Yeah, maybe for the next few weeks after the bill's passed. Does the rapporteur know what I think will happen? I believe that the other countries will start to tighten even more, and then we will end up in a mess again. That is what has happened so far. We tighten, and others tighten, we tighten again, and others tighten again, we tighten, and we can continue to do so. Then it is that we must look each other in the eye and at some point assess when enough is enough. When have we tightened enough? So no, if we look six months ahead, I don't think it's going to affect the number.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126154323	Then it's mr. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126154326	Thank you. I would like to turn the time back to last year when we were in this Chamber discussing cash aid reform. There was one of the main arguments against it here from the rapporteur's party and I even think from the rapporteur himself that there was no labour market to go out and get a job on. So that's why it was awful to do this cash-aid reform. Now the rapporteur stands and says that all these refugees must enter the labour market in order to be integrated. So what's true? Is there a job or isn't there a job?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126154402	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126154403	Now the rapporteur was not in the Folketing at that time, although it might have been fun, but it is true that we are very concerned about whether there is a great supply of labour there. But what we could do, I think, is that we could invest in many of the unskilled Danes we have. We can invest in continuing training for them and try to shift them from being unskilled to skilled, and some of those who are skilled can try to move to technicians so that we move the whole job force, and so we may try to get some refugees into the jobs where there are unskilled Danes today. However, this requires that we invest in continuing training.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126154439	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126154442	As I recall, both the rapporteur and I were elected last year and took part in the debate in this Chamber, but it may be that it is just my memory that is playing me. Now I have to ask: where will all this money come from? There must be more educators, there must be more teachers, and now there must also be investment in the massive training of all unskilled people so that they can get out and take some new jobs, which I do not know where either, so that refugees can enter and take the other jobs. Where will all this money come from?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126154513	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126154515	Well, you could start by scraping some of the lovely initiatives that the Danish People's Party has put to the vote in the Finance Act: the relief of car taxes and inheritance tax, where you just open a tax hole again, and then there is also the land tax. Money has also been set aside with regard to top tax. Well, if you dropped any of it, you could start by spending that money. I'm actually a little puzzled, but I'm also young, why, when there is a welfare majority here in the Parliament, who doesn't support tax breaks and who thinks that you should spend it on the Danish workers and on welfare, then don't do it together.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126154549	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126154608	Last week, I spoke with several Syrian refugees, including: in Ry. Several questions were asked, including:: Why do the Danes have so much against us? Why are they fighting us? Why does the government not like us etc. etc.? I tried to tell them that Denmark is an open country, a tolerant country, Denmark is the country of opportunity. You can become anything in Denmark except king, otherwise everything else. It is just a matter of getting it together, giving it a shell, learning the language, becoming integrated and engaging in society. And the fact that you have an ambition, a desire to limit the arrival of more people in the country, is not the same as the fact that you have something against the individual who is here who has been granted a residence permit. Denmark gives asylum to a great many people. We are a country that grants asylum to many more than many other countries. Actually, we're on top five. We grant asylum to many more than the rich Arab countries, they barely grant asylum to anyone. We grant asylum to many more than the United States, which has only granted asylum to 1,400 Syrian refugees in 3 years. So there's nothing to be ashamed of. We can be familiar with what we are doing at the moment, but there is also a limit. It is extremely important that we in Danish society can keep up with economic and integration in relation to the number that comes here. And having that desire is not the same as being against the individual. In fact, I would rather have fewer people whom we treat properly than many who are not all satisfied. So the background for the tightening, among other things. L 87 is not to bother the individual refugee who is in Denmark. It is necessary to tighten up so that we can control the number that comes here so that we can keep up with economic and integration. I must admit that part of the process we have been through with regard to L 87 has not been pretty, at least the part that has been about jewelry and wedding rings and gold teeth, and I do not know what. A wedding ring has become a lot of gold teeth around the world, and I find this a pity for Denmark, that is to say that it is the impression you get from Denmark. That is why, when we started talking about wedding rings, we asked and wanted to clarify it. We understand that if you come here with a fortune, you obviously have to spend the fortune before the state starts spending tax dollars on people. If you don't have a fortune, then you'll be taken care of. The starting point is people who are on transfer income and people who owe something to the public. One cannot, of course, compare it to one, but that is the starting point, and I think that is fair. I am sorry that that part of the package has been exaggerated internationally. I think it is a pity that Danish decision-makers, Danish opinion-makers, have not told about the whole of the foreign media, so they have instead got a very wrong impression of Denmark and the Danes. I really think it is a pity for the Danes and Denmark, which is a country that is really approachable and open to people. I think it is a pity that you start drawing the Danes as some who are xenophobic, and I think it is bad that some make comparisons with the 1930s. Having said all that, it is important to stress again and again that I have mentioned this many times from this platform that all we are doing now is symptom treatment. We don't want to touch the wound. Most of the people who come here are from Syria, and there is a lot in the slipstream of Syrian refugees, including immigrants. But no one is talking about how we can stop the madness in Syria; how we can protect the 10 million internally displaced persons so that they have no reason to escape. No one is talking about no-fly zones, humanitarian corridors. I mean, if people aren't protected, they're gonna run out of the country. Then there are some who think that being a humanist is just a few open zones at Rødby and Padborg. Being a humanist is actually advocating war so that you can have peace in Syria so that the Syrians can get rid of plague and cholera, namely Assad and Islamic State. But I don't hear a lot of people talking about that. You'd rather discuss the symptoms than treat the wound. The last thing I want to say is a repetition of something I have said from this platform. The current asylum system that we have in Denmark is a system that is pounding unsolidarous, very unsolidarous. Only those who can afford to come here, i.e. those who have between $10,000 and $15,000 to $20,000. A teacher in Syria earns $100-200 a year. month. Those who have the means to come here, those who are physically able to come here, are given asylum; those who have nothing, we fail. And that's why we have to think out of the box, we have to think about new solutions. In any case, we have proposed that the ambition, the vision, must be to challenge the conventions and say: asylum can no longer be granted in Denmark. On the other hand, we would like to do what Canada does: go down to pick up 5,000 refugees a year, for example. In this way, we undermine the activity of traffickers and people do not have to risk their lives crossing the Mediterranean. And then there is more popular support, because then you know that at least people really need protection. So my wish is that my vision is a completely new asylum system.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126155308	Then it is first Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126155311	After all, we have chosen to lump a lot of different legislation together in one legislative proposal here. I really think that is a shame and a bit sloppy, because these are quite crucial parts that we have to deal with very briefly. One of the elements that has not been so focused is that you change the rules on how to obtain permanent residence permits. When a young person, and it may be a young person, who has come to Denmark as quite small or was born in Denmark, would like to have a permanent residence permit, most would like to do so, it no longer gives points to train, it gives points to work. So that means, for example, that... An 18-year-old is in a situation where taking training and going that way could be a teacher or carpenter or some other person actually postpones and reduces the possibility of permanent residence permits, whereas unskilled work is what counts in this bill. Is that good or bad for integration?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126155414	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126155416	In fact, I think it is a healthy principle that people who make an effort to become part of this society, people who are self-supporting, are rewarded by obtaining permanent residence permits faster than others.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126155432	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126155434	You want me to understand, sir? Naser Khader such that a young person, such as choose to train as a primary school teacher, make less effort to contribute to being part of Danish society than a young person who chooses to take unskilled work? Because that's the consequence of this bill. As I said, it is not just those who come here now, because it can also be young people who have been born here or come here at the age of two or three. Is it not precisely to contribute to Danish society to education, since all statistics show that people with education are better off financially, if I may say so, for society than the opposite?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126155517	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126155518	If I were raised here and faced with the situation that I could choose between obtaining a permanent residence permit or completing teacher training, I would prefer teacher training. Then permanent residence permit can come later. Education is more important than thinking of obtaining permanent residence permits, because you are not in favour of expulsion.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126155542	Then it's mr. Dan Jørgensen, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126155545	Thank you. One of the things that is happening now, which was part of the overall negotiations, is that refugees themselves have to pay for the cost of family reunification. There my own party suggested that it might be said that it is reasonable enough, but if there could then be no possibility that a loan could be obtained from the state, so to speak, that the state started out so that it could be paid off later. Actually, I don't know if we proposed it until Mr. Simpson... Naser Khader did, or about Mr. Naser Khader suggested it first, and that's not what this is about either. But the thing that puzzles me is that sir... Naser Khader suddenly didn't mean it anymore, and that's why it's not like that either. Could Mr. Doesn't Khader naser explain what it is that has done, that he has changed his mind?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126155629	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126155631	I do not want to take copyright on my ideas, but what I think is important is that we agreed with the Socialists that that is what we are doing. What has happened in the process, and the Socialists have also changed their position through the negotiation process, I think it is inappropriate to stand here and talk about it today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126155652	Sir. Dan Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126155654	Well, you have to be able to measure everything, including those parts of the package that you are not in favour of. After all, there are several things that I have stood on the platform and said are something we need to do, because it is, like, part of the great compromise. But it's not our idea. What I'm asking, sir. Naser Khader about, is whether Mr. Naser Khader still thinks or does not think that it should be so that the state could start off for those people so that they had an opportunity to get their families up here and then pay off later?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126155722	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126155724	Yes, we asked about the idea at the beginning, and it turned out that it was too bureaucratic. That's why we walked away from the idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126155732	Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126155737	There have been several rapporteurs up here from the right, yes, from the Socialist Group, who have said that it was just as painful to the rapporteurs and their parties to implement these restrictions on family reunification, but that it was, as it were, the necessary price to curb that influx. But with that argument one might ask oneself: where does the limit go? I mean, why have three years of family reunion been stopped? Why not 4 years or 5 years? Or why not stop completely for family reunification if it was so that it could further slow down the influx? I mean, where is the limit when you go along with that argument? We do something we know to be evil, we know to cause suffering here among some families. Why not four years? I would like to ask the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126155833	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126155835	It is, of course, a comprehensive package, an overall agreement between several parties. On this point, therefore, we have not said yes to anything where we deliberately violate the conventions. We challenge the conventions, but we do not violate them. This does not apply to all Convention refugees; it applies to a small group of refugees. And frankly, I couldn't dream of leaving my family somewhere in Syria where they're exposed to planes carrying Assad's barrel bombs. I wouldn't run away from them. So if you're very, very worried about your family down there, I don't understand why you're running away from them and not taking them with you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126155928	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126155930	The last comment I think is simply that we are talking about families. We are sitting here, excuse me, on well-upholstered chairs, on solid incomes, and then the rapporteur stands here and takes control of people on whom the bombs are raining and who may see one. Then the rapporteur stands and judges those people. Well, it's beyond my understanding.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126160006	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126160008	There are 10 million internally displaced persons in Syria. 15 million have fled their homes. There are 10 million who are exposed to this risk every day, including my own family.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126160024	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions. I now give the floor to the Minister, who is about to dress up or off (the Minister takes his scarf off)
ParlaMint-DK_20160126160041	Perhaps that was a rather lively start to my speech (Murred but thank you very much for the debate. After all, I think that the debate at first reading and also at third reading has shown that this is a legislative proposal which, it might be said, both stirs our minds up, but, of course, has a very deep political dimension, which means that everyone has a strong commitment to it. I see that only as an advantage. Yesterday, the Foreign Minister and myself in the European Parliament were in order to clarify and provide answers to some of the questions raised by European politicians. I really think that was very valuable. What we saw yesterday in the European Parliament was, in many ways, the same as here, precisely that there is a broad political attachment to the proposal we are dealing with here today. After all, it will shortly be adopted by a majority of about three quarters of the Danish Parliament, and if you look at the European Parliament, then there will be support from the four largest groups, but not from the whole groups, I will hurry to say, but from the four largest groups in the European Parliament. It may also in fact show what a challenge we face, what a challenge we face in Denmark, but also what a challenge we face in the rest of Europe. Because what we are experiencing now is a refugee crisis. I think we are all aware of that, but it is also a migration. And that is really what we are dealing with now. That is why I would like to thank you for the debate and, of course, to answer any questions that may arise.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126160304	Thank you, Minister. The first question is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126160310	Thank you. I understand that yesterday in this House the Foreign Minister assured the other countries that this bill is not contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights, and I am of course surprised that the Minister for Foreign Affairs can provide such a guarantee, since the government itself, quite clearly, writes in the comments to the bill that there is a so-called 'process risk', i.e. it is well known that there is therefore a risk that Denmark will be convicted of human rights violations on the basis of this bill. Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs today guarantee that Denmark will not be condemned for human rights violations as a result of the adoption of this bill? The minister will probably say that you can't guarantee anything in the world. But what is the Minister's expectation? Does the Minister expect this to be in accordance with the European Convention on Human Rights or not?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126160407	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126160409	If, as a government, we had not expected this to remain within the framework of the international conventions that we ourselves signed, we would never have put it forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126160418	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126160420	I am very surprised, as I know never before, that the comments on legislative proposals have used these wordings on the so-called procedural risk of human rights violations committed by the Foreign Minister and the Government of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. That is the risk that it seems to be willing to take. I want to ask about integration. Does the Minister think it is good for integration in Denmark or bad for integration in Denmark that it no longer gives points to young people who want a permanent residence permit to train themselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126160455	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126160457	Let me just say, to begin with, that we would not be putting forward a proposal if we did not think that it remained within the conventions, but we are still well aware that we are moving to the edge of the conventions, and I think it should be good from the point of view of the questioner that we should then point that out. It is clear that we are reflecting on the proposals we are putting forward. With regard to permanent stay: If you were born in Denmark, have taken care of your school and have stayed out of crime, you will still be able to get a permanent stay.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126160533	The next question is Mr. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126160536	Thank you for your speech, Minister. I would just like an explanation as to why the Prime Minister is now out to say that there will be no more asylum restrictions. I would say that reality is the test of everything. If reality turns out to be someone other than the one you are counting on or if the asylum crisis is going to grow over Denmark, is it not possible that there can be austerity? I also believe that it would be utopia in the field of taxation to say that now we have introduced all the laws that are and then it is just so forward-looking. It is clear that we are adapting to the reality we have. I would like a comment from the Minister as the representative of the government on why it is now being denied that there may be more restrictions on asylum.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126160632	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126160634	It is clear that when we have presented this package and also, you might say, negotiated it with a number of parties in the Folketing, it is because we believe that this is the answer to the challenges we face. In fact, that is also what the Prime Minister has been talking about, so that we have come up with this series of proposals and what is, after all, a significant tightening up of foreign policy. That is what we expect to be the answer. That's why there's no provision for any new tightening on this area right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126160714	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126160716	I'm just wondering why you're so damn sure you don't think there's gonna be any tension. Even if it turns out that there are some gaps in some of this legislation that are being introduced now, will it be refused in future to tighten up on asylum? I think that's something you're gonna regret. I believe that reality will tell us that we are going to have to tighten things up. For example, we would like border controls to be made permanent. But I firmly believe that we are going to be right about reality, because that is the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126160754	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126160756	It would simply surprise me as well and perhaps even make me a tiny bit disappointed if the Danish People's Party did not have any further proposals for austerity and if they would not propose them. Having said that, however, I would like to say that this is, of course, the government's response to the challenges we face. Moreover, I think it is important that we now get to grips with the big task of integrating the people who are in Denmark so that they can become contributors to Danish society. And, of course, we must also have our eyes focused on finding a European solution to the major challenges we face.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126160842	Thank you. Before the next questioner has the floor, I would just like to ask that there be silence, even if people are entering the Chamber now, for the sake of the questioner and the Minister. The next question is Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126160853	The government, like many rapporteurs here, has also recognised that this tightening of family reunification rules will have a major impact on some families, recognised that it will create some major problems. That is also what we see in the consultation answers from psychologists, human rights organisations, social workers and from all sorts of others: that this proposal has very severe human consequences. Has the government considered whether the number expected to be fewer as a result of this outweighs these things, outweighs the personal, human consequences that this proposal creates? So, I could ask you this: how many fewer refugees do you count on choosing Denmark and wiping off on one of our neighbouring countries, because you tighten this part with the family reunification rules, and is that the number enough to justify that families should sit for 3 years without being able to reunite with the rest of their families?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126161003	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126161006	You can't think of the individual as wanting to have the family close and wanting to be a family. However, it can be said that my task and that of the government is also to find a balance between how we help as many people as possible. On the one hand, we can return to the debate that it is at least the strongest refugees who get to Denmark on their own and, on the other hand, also make sure that we can keep up with Denmark, that we can keep up with both financially, because the tracks frighten, and indeed also in terms of value, because the number means something. This is, of course, the balancing point that we, as a government, have to find all the time, and I admit that it is difficult to find that balance, but it is from this that we have also decided to tighten up the area of family reunification.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126161103	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126161107	That's the balancing point I'm trying to figure out. I also asked the former rapporteur about this: why not four years, why not five years, why not completely abolish the possibility of family reunification, why not include other groups? Is it just the convention? Was it the case that if the convention were not there, the Minister was prepared to say: Well, they can wait ten years for family reunification? Well, how is this balancing point found? For us in the Enhedslisten, the balance point has been exceeded with this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126161138	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126161141	It is quite all right for the Enhedslisten to do so, and I have to say that there is a political division between the waters. But when it is three years old, it is because we believe that, on the one hand, it stays within the conventions and, on the other hand, it also goes to the limit of the conventions, and that is one of the considerations I have to make, and the government will have to do itself when we have a wish, and we have that to ensure that we can keep up with Denmark, not only economically but also in terms of value.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126161212	The next question is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126161216	Thanks for the speech. I'd like to take a look in the world. Because today there has been a debate on how and how to ensure that we have European solutions and global solutions, and as I also mentioned in my own rapporteur's speech, I certainly do not think that we are going to take the lead there. Could the Minister explain how the Minister intends to ensure that Denmark can take the lead in resolving the European challenge?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126161246	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126161248	For my part, I can say that I am constantly in dialogue with my colleagues in Europe, and that is precisely what I am doing to constantly discuss how we can achieve a common European solution. In fact, I should have attended an informal Council meeting in Amsterdam yesterday, but unfortunately I had to cancel it because I had to answer questions in the European Parliament. So I can say that this is what is being done there, but that is also what the Heads of State or Government are doing; it is not long ago that our own Prime Minister was at the very great Valletta conference. It is the same with the Foreign Ministers, they also meet regularly, and they also have formal and informal contacts with each other. So I can assure you that at all levels what can be done to achieve a common European solution is being done. But I must also honestly say that I find it difficult.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126161354	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126161356	Thank you. Now I understood from the rapporteur from the ruling party of the Left that it was not agreed that there should be a quota allocation and that he could understand why people chose Denmark and probably would not choose Romania. But in relation to the question: is it just Greece that has to have all the refugees?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126161420	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126161422	No. We are working on a quota allocation. But what Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen points out that the difficulty is precisely that there are a number of refugees who, of course, and they cannot be thought into this, choose the countries where living conditions are best. In practice, such redistribution can also be very difficult, because if you have come to a country in which you absolutely do not want to stay, then there will be a driving force for trying to travel to those countries in which you had actually decided to be the end destination. So in fact, I think that's what Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen explained quite intelligently.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126161513	A little quieter in the hall, please! Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126161521	Thank you. Well, I'd like to follow up on that. I find this interesting, because the Minister and thanks for what he has just pointed out that the government actually thinks and believes that there should be European solutions to this refugee crisis. I would then like to hear from the Minister what the Danish Government's proposal for European solutions is, since the rapporteur from the Left does not believe that a quota allocation is part of the solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126161550	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126161553	I think we have spent many, many months discussing this, including here in the Danish Parliament. However, it is very much a matter of getting the external European borders under control, and it is, of course, a matter of giving more impetus to aid to the neighbourhoods, and there we are, therefore, one of the countries that takes the lead. These are just two of the initiatives that need to be taken. And then it has to be said that until it works you will see, I think personally, tightening up in a number of European countries. For until the external European borders are controlled, the countries are refusing to do so in order to ensure that they can keep up with them. It is also a reflection of what we are seeing here today. Because when external European borders are not controlled, we will be pressed, and we will be very much pressed in Scandinavia too, because of our universal welfare model and the conditions of residence in general, which are, of course, good when you look at the rest of Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126161658	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126161701	Thank you. I fully agree with the Minister that Europe will be under pressure as long as the external borders are not under control. That is why I ask specifically what the government thinks we in Europe should do in addition to getting control of the external borders. What are we going to do about the refugees who are in Europe and who will continue to come to Europe? What should we do with them if the government does not want to distribute them among the European countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126161727	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126161731	But what I am just saying is that the first priority must then be to get the external borders under control, and then it must also be to get help in the neighbourhoods into gear, because that is one of the reasons why we do not go into Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126161747	The next question is Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126161751	One of the rules on which we are about to vote is family reunification, that is, that families can now be separated for up to three years with this bill. Families are being held torn apart, and there is a risk of • • that it may mean that there are people who take children on a dangerous journey that they would not otherwise risk. This is not really a new idea, because the previous government did the same trick, you might say, with 1 year, when the government will now just tighten it further to 3 years. That is a little the trend: it is being tightened and tightened and tightened. And the point is that there will be fewer, but there will be no fewer. So I guess my question is somewhere: is there some kind of lower limit in this, so it stops somewhere? If it does not work to continue to tighten and tighten and tighten, i.e. if refugees actually continue to come, is there a lower limit for the government, where it has to be said: now we can no more?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126161856	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126161858	I might as well say frankly to Mrs Pernille Skipper that refugees will then continue to come. It will then go to Europe, and it will go to Denmark as well. But then we are back on track from just now: after all, it is also about getting the external European borders under control. However, until the external European borders are controlled, you will see the countries defending themselves and the countries individually tightening up their foreign policy. There has been a very, very lenient immigration policy for a number of years in Denmark. carried by Enhedslisten and that means that we are sitting here today where we are sitting. That is why we need to tighten up. We're gonna have to sort things out. The Enhedslisten has greatly contributed to the fact that we are in a situation where we need to tighten up.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126161952	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126161954	I do not think it is the relaxed policy of foreigners that marks the Danish reputation right at the moment. And if there is something that Denmark is currently wearing in relation to, then it is not to find common European solutions; at least it is to show how one can defend oneself individually, so that we can participate in a downward spiral. What I'm trying to ask is maybe somewhere isn't so much what works and what doesn't work in terms of keeping people on the run. What I am trying to ask is whether there is a moral core somewhere, i.e. a lower limit on how to treat people on the run, or whether everything like applies, if it just has the effect that it keeps some people away from Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126162038	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126162040	But let me just make it clear that the people who come to Denmark, the asylum seekers who come to Denmark, we treat well, and we continue to do so. After all, it is a matter of getting a set of rules that does not make us differ significantly from other countries, so that we do not become more attractive than other countries. There has been a very, very lenient policy on foreigners over a number of years, including: of Enhedslisten. That's why we're where we are now. That is why we need to tighten up. I do not think anyone is in any doubt that conditions of residence are important. That is why you can see that not only do we here in Denmark tighten up, but you do so in a number of other countries too. It is about us being able to keep up with both financially, but also to a large extent in terms of value. Because it means something to the country if there's a lot of strangers coming here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126162142	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126162146	Thank you. I think it is very exciting when the Minister talks about European solutions, and I would really like to ask a few questions about that. The Minister says that external borders need to be managed before they can, as it were, proceed with it, so before it makes sense to continue talking about it, but I just don't think that makes any sense. I think that now that the outer border is stabilized, which we are also fighting for, so I'd like to sign for what do you do? Because then there is control over the many refugees who come up here, and many of them will certainly have the right to asylum, and I do not hear the Minister going to put an end to the right of asylum. Where are they going if you do not have a quota allocation?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126162240	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126162244	Well, so far there is actually a quota allocation, but it just doesn't work as intended. So that's one of the things that needs to be dealt with. And there's sir. Mr Ellemann-Jensen's earlier speech is quite relevant, because it is quite right, as has been said, that it may be quite difficult to make these things work. Because if you are now referred to a country you do not want to be in, how will you ensure that the person who has then been referred to Romania or Poland, but actually rather wants to go to Denmark or Sweden, stays there?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126162301	We do not use direct indictments when we speak in the Chamber. Sir. Jacob Mark, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126162308	Now it was the minister who did it! The Minister has said with the Prime Minister in front of him that you will not take more than 1,000, and it was so changed that you will not take anyone at all because no one else does. I mean, if we don't take the lead, how does the Minister think anyone else would do it? Is this not the other way to go and say that we are taking our share, and then we must punish those countries that do not want to lift, financially or sanction them in some way?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126162339	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126162342	Well, it sounds legendary when the rapporteur presents it like that, but I just have to say that it probably doesn't have much to do with the real world. And then let me just challenge the reasoning that Denmark is not taking its part. We certainly take our part when it comes to refugees in Europe. And it is no secret that when we stand here today it is actually because we want to take a smaller share because we find it difficult to keep up.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126162413	The next question is Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126162416	Thank you. I am very pleased that we will soon be able to adopt L 87 and I would like to congratulate the Minister on her willingness to make the necessary adjustments. There is, however, something that shatters my ears a little, and this is the recurring use of the words integration and permanent stay. I just need clarification. Which of the following two scenarios would the Minister prefer is the outcome of an asylum seeker's arrival in Denmark: integration and permanent stay or return to a peaceful country?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126162458	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126162502	Well, I think that we all, and at least a number of the parties here in the Danish Parliament, want the refugees who come to Denmark to be able to return to their country of origin. But we also have to join the real world and realise that there are a lot of people who don't come home again, and if it's the case that you have to live your life in Denmark, then it's all about you becoming a positive contributor to Danish society. The tracks are scaring. After 1 year it is 10% that are at work, and after 3 years it is just on the bottom of 30 per cent that are at work, and then it will be huge, very expensive, not only financially, but also on the value set, because they do not get what you could call the ordinary Danish everyday life under their skin. That is why we are facing a huge challenge. So it would be okay if you could just set up the two scenarios and choose freely between them, but that's not the way the world is. I do not know when there will be peace in, for example. Syria again, and I am not fully aware of that either.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126162608	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126162611	No, I can't say I know. But if the Minister shares the Danish People's Party's vision that the ultimate goal must be to return to the country from which you come, why do we even operate with the concept of permanent residence? Then we will have to have some temporary stay instead, otherwise we will not be able to achieve the objective we want to achieve, namely permanent repatriation in the end. Why is it still working away with it, and does the Minister not recognise that there is still a need for austerity because there is still room for permanent residence?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126162643	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126162647	When a permanent stay is operated, it is of course in recognition that there is still away and so it will also be in the future that people are going to stay permanently in Denmark. I therefore believe, and of course the government also does, that it is absolutely essential that you become a positive contributor to Danish society, both financially, that you get into the labour market and into the educational system, but also to a large extent to the value set, that is to say you become a part of the Denmark of which everyone else is a part, and that you take the values into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126162722	Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126162729	Thank you. The Minister said a few rounds ago that, in the view of the Minister, we treat the refugees well. Is it to treat the refugees well that, when it comes to the group we are talking about here, we are preventing them from being together as a family for three years? Is that treating people well? Has the Minister really considered the consequences for the people of the bill we are discussing here today? I would like to confront the Minister with statements by both the Save Children and the Children's Council saying that this bill with a limit on family reunification of three years risks endangering the lives of children and that children of refugees are being severely traumatized, so that if at some point they succeed in being brought together with their parents and the whole family are being gathered, will it mark them for the rest of their lives? Has the Minister considered that? Does the Minister agree that that could be the consequences of this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126162830	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126162833	In fact, I see my task as being two-part and my responsibility as being two-part. On the one hand, it's treating people well, and that's what's being asked about here and I think we do. It should be borne in mind that the people covered by this three-year rule are people who are temporarily resident in Denmark. On the other hand, it is my responsibility to ensure that we can keep up with Denmark, that we can keep up with the refugees and migrants who come to Denmark, that we can keep up with economics and that we can keep up with value. And as I have said before, it is a question of finding the balance between the two things. So, on the one hand, we must treat people well and I certainly think we do; I do not think there is a finger to put on it and, on the other hand, I have, I feel, a very great obligation that the Denmark we have today, with the set of values and with the welfare society we have, is also the Denmark we have in a few years' time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126162932	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126162935	Thank you. I am fully aware that what we are talking about here with the 3-year limit applies to refugees who have been temporarily resident. But does the Minister not acknowledge the consequences? Because I do not think the Minister has dealt with the consequences I outlined, which are not something I have come up with, because anyone can tell themselves what it means to be separated from his family, for example. that the danger is here, while the children and the wife are in Turkey, where barrel bombs rain down on them, so what it means mentally. That's what I asked the Minister to do. Will the Minister then answer: is it true that Save the Children says that it is a brutal bill because they implement with open eyes a bill that will have the consequences?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126163027	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126163030	No, I believe that this is a perfectly fair legislative proposal, and I believe that it is also in the area of family reunification, with the tightenings that lie there. And again: I believe that because we have several considerations to take into account. On the one hand, we must treat the people who come to Denmark well, but on the other hand, I also have an obligation to take care of them, and I would actually hope that Mr. Finn Sørensen felt the same obligation to ensure that both Danish economy, but to a large extent the value set in Denmark can keep up.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126163100	Thank you. Then it's mr. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126163105	After all, we have found that we will probably not agree today, and that is why I also think that it is essential to look forward. No matter how disagreeable I may be in the legislative proposal that has been tabled and which will be adopted shortly, I think it is essential to find out whether the government can perhaps also begin to change tone and objectives now. I think it might be interesting to find out whether we will continue to try to scare people from wanting to be here. It can have a good purpose in that, in the eyes of the government, we can take better care of Denmark or whether we might have to think about whether we want to be the best country in the world to integrate, i.e. whether we dare take it on ourselves, whether it is positive for Denmark. It's not really to be polemical. I mean it quite frankly. Could one go in that direction and say together here in Denmark: we will be the ones who are best to integrate the people who are now going to be here? In the view of the Minister, would it be positive if Denmark were actually to be the best country to integrate those who were here? Do we dare?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126163159	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126163203	Yes, it is clear that I believe that if you are to stay in Denmark, we must do everything we possibly can to become the world's best country in terms of integration. And that is precisely why it is absolutely one of the things that will be on the agenda here in a very, very short time, when there will be negotiations both in relation to the municipalities to look at the efforts that the municipalities are making ■ it is also a huge task and effort but also in relation to the labour market to see how we ensure that those who will then stay in Denmark actually enter the labour market. For I would like to say again: there are several reasons why it is so important to enter the labour market. There is a purely defensible economic reason which is quite obvious, but there is indeed a value-based reason for it. Because if you don't walk in the labour market, if you sit in a ghetto and are bad at Danish and don't participate in the surrounding society, then you don't get the ordinary Danish everyday life under your skin, and then you don't become part of the set of values that we have. And I actually think it's absolutely crucial that you do, that you take Denmark in, if you live here, and if you're going to live here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126163311	Sir. René Gade has further questions, and we have two more on the list, so we're closing now. But Mr. I give the floor to René Gade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126163317	Once again, however disagreeable one may be in the draft law, I think it is positive that something must be able to gather forward. It must be a mission for Denmark. My final question is this: could it also be imagined that it would be our mission that those who were then perhaps here on borrowed time should also be equipped in the best possible way to return to where they come from? And does the Minister believe that this bill actually equips the people who have come here to Denmark to be able to come back and build something in the best possible way? Is the way this law will go in and tighten things up something that builds people up?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126163353	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126163358	In fact, I believe that the work that comes here afterwards, with both negotiations with the municipalities and the tripartite negotiations with the social partners, is one of the things where more attention will be paid to the part that Mr. René Gade asks about.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126163414	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126163422	Thank you. Now, during the day, almost all day, we have heard from the left about these people sitting in Syria, where the bombs crash around their ears waiting to be brought together to Denmark. That is why I would just like to ask the Minister for Integration, in all peace, whether it is not true that a quite considerable proportion of the people who are being brought together to Denmark are not being brought together from Syria, but are being brought together from secure camps in Turkey, Lebanon and Jordan, where no bombs fall on people's ears.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126163458	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126163501	Without having the exact figures on me, I can confirm that, of course, a large proportion of the people who are being brought together in the family are sitting in some of the large refugee camps.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126163511	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126163514	Then I would like to ask the Minister: is it appropriate for Denmark to import people who are actually safe in Turkey, in Lebanon or in Jordan to Denmark, when we know that we are notoriously having enormous problems in integrating those concerned?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126163528	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126163531	It is again a question of the international conventions that we have signed. After all, the government has the basis of compliance with the conventions that we ourselves have signed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126163543	The last question is Mrs Lotte Rod, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126163552	I have a follow-up question to the answer to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. What is the government's European solution for the refugees who are in Europe? The Minister does not need to say anything about the external borders, we are in favour of that. In concrete terms, the Minister must deal with the refugees who are already in Europe. What is the government's European solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126163614	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126163616	In many ways, it can be said that the solution is right, because the people who are here in Europe are, after all, very much in the process of seeking asylum in the countries in which they are now trying to obtain asylum. So there I actually don't think there's so much to do. I am not going to intervene, for example. the German asylum process or the Swedish asylum process.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126163637	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126163640	So, unfortunately, the answer is simply that the government will not do anything for the common European policy. Then I would just like to conclude today's debate by saying: get in the fight, government. Join the field, take the lead in Europe for us to find common solutions. Now you have spoken of necessity and necessity, and what is most necessary does nothing to the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126163706	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126163709	In other words, it almost tends to be absurd to have a question about what Mrs Lotte Rod asked here. For I am not assuming that Mrs Lotte Rod or the Radical Left will intervene in the asylum processes of other countries and are considering starting to take asylum seekers who are in the process of a process, for example. in Norway or in Sweden or in Germany, and invite them to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126163733	Then we thank the Minister very much. Following this thorough discussion, we have now reached the vote on L 87.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126163742	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. In favour 81 (S, DF, V, LA and KF) voted against 27 (EL, ALT, RV, SF, Yildiz Akdogan (S), Mette Gjerskov (S) and Daniel Toft Jakobsen (S)) abstentions 1 (IA). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126163827	I would ask those of you who want to leave the Chamber to do so calmly so that we can continue the debate. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 by a minority (ALT), elected by a majority (the other committee) that the bill is divided into two legislative proposals? No one is asking for a vote. Sharing of the bill in two legislative proposals has been adopted. I propose that the legislative proposals go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126163957	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is Mrs Mette Reissmann, the Socialists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126164024	For the Socialists, it is important that we ensure an effective framework for construction. Difficult processes, unnecessary bureaucracy are not in anyone's interest either those who initiate the building, those who are to build the building or those who will subsequently benefit from the buildings built. In other words, there is very good reason to ensure efficient construction. Then well-functioning buildings can be built for business and housing, where costs and timetables do not run out of control due to delays, and it is always worth striving for the improvements that can support it. L 101, which we are discussing here today, concerns amendments to the Building Act, which is intended to create a more effective framework for construction. The bill consists of four elements designed to increase the efficiency of construction. For the Socialists, this is a sensible approach. You walk, among other things. Into and removes several barriers which mainly act as a stop-block for no real purpose. After all, both the certification scheme and the simplification of fire regulation are escaping with parts of the previous government's growth package from 2015, which is why the Socialists are extremely pleased that we can see that the government has actually followed these ideas that we put forward last year before the summer break. The certification scheme allows companies to document technical aspects of construction, and the simplification of fire regulation also means that in future construction will only be dealt with by one body in relation to fire protection. In terms of content, the level of safety remains the same, and this is of course worth noting. At the same time, it is also important that the introduction of certification systems in particular be organised in a thorough and sensible way. It is absolutely vital that there is clarity about the various elements here which are about the responsibility of construction and that the system is designed in a way where the quality is no less than it is today. Several of the consultation responses express concern about possible quality deterioration. I understand that, so I shall also look forward to hearing how the Minister intends to put this arrangement into the sea, so that we see a positive effect and do not risk any reduction in quality or efficiency. The Socialists also have the expectation that this can be done, among other things. because the current safety requirements are maintained. At the same time, the scheme also gives the developers a better chance of approving innovative building methods which the municipalities do not necessarily have the technical skills to assess. That is wise, and that is why we support this part of the proposal as well. The two further initiatives of the draft law concern voluntary building damage insurance and the introduction of a small fixed fee for all types of construction cases. In relation to voluntary building damage insurance, it can be noted with satisfaction that the Ministry's comments in the consultation note emphasise the rights of consumers and they also place emphasis on the conditions of tenants. That's a good thing. We hope that the legal position of tenants in the insolvency of the developer, if there is no voluntary insurance, will be clarified during the committee's examination of the draft law, because it is still a little uncertain how it will be presented in that case. Similarly, the Socialists also take a positive view of the harmonisation of municipal fees for building cases. It makes sense for the municipalities to have the same opportunity for all types of construction applications, and this is also an opportunity to charge a small lump sum if no further payment is made. All in all, we do believe that the legislative proposal provides greater flexibility and flexibility. It contributes to the effective framework which the Social Democratic Party also seeks to build up, because it simply removes all unnecessary obstacles without compromising on neither safety nor conditions for consumers and tenants, which is very much at the heart of the Socialist Group. The Social Democrats can therefore support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126164440	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kim Christiansen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126164451	First of all, I should like to welcome the House that the Danish People's Party will also end up supporting this bill. It is an opportunity and a way to make growth more efficient and more efficient. It makes no sense that we have several bodies to approve the same thing. Then there's this whole thing about us empowering the Ministry to lay down some rules. It could then have been fun to see the rules, so we are actually giving the Ministry a little carte blanche and a blank cheque, but we have to take that in the second place if we think that the rules that the Ministry now finds are completely out of place. But so far we are confident that a sensible set of rules will be found in relation to these complicated constructions, and also in relation to who you want to give it here. Then there's the whole point of building damage insurance. It is clear that it makes no sense to have an insurance policy which can apply to the owners when we are dealing here with rentals. And the tenants are already covered in the existing legislation. So this is, as we at least see it, a regulatory simplification which, I hope, also in relation to fire protection, means that we do not have legislation in several places, but here it is brought together under the Building Act. So, on the whole, we think it is a very sensible proposal, which hopefully helps to make the whole construction process more flexible.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126164620	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126164632	This bill will make it easier and cheaper to build in Denmark. The draft law promotes the efficiency and growth of construction, and of course the Left is in favour of this. The bill is an offshoot of the government's visionary proposal, which is called growth and development throughout Denmark. The proposed certification scheme will result in uniformity so that the developers will no longer experience a significant difference in the handling of their complex building cases in the individual municipalities. Since it is voluntary for the developers to take out building damage insurance for the construction of rental property, building rental property will be cheaper. The collection of fire legislation in the Building Act will make the casework more flexible, and an administrative relief will be experienced. In addition, the proposed changes relating to the charging of fees will simplify and harmonise the rules on when a fixed fee is charged. The draft law states that it is estimated that the shorter processing time for companies and the saved costs of the proposed change in the construction process total 20-30 million. kr. a year. In addition, it appears that companies that build rental property no longer have to make offers on a building damage insurance or take out a building damage insurance, but instead record a servitut on the property. This proposal is expected to lead to an economy saving of approx. 60 million kr. per year as a result of savings in insurance costs. Furthermore, I am aware that the draft law is expected to free up some resources in the municipalities. I also note that the consultation responses express general support for the draft law from among others. Dansk Industri, Dansk Byggeri, Clientsforeningen, Danske Architectsvirksomheder etc. The left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126164831	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126164843	When I see a legislative proposal in which there are a great many comprehensive consultation responses and then look at the consultation note that is on the matter, I have to say that it seems that only one place has been changed to the legislative proposal that has been submitted for consultation. Then I'm a little skeptical as a starting point. I am becoming even more sceptical when I see that there are so many places where you like to comment on these hearings by saying that this is something that will be dealt with in the context of an announcement. If it were written that the Minister thought it was a good consultation answer and that it was something that one would certainly incorporate when it came to drawing up the notice, then I think it would have been something else. Then I think it would have been easier to take a positive view of what is before the Danish Parliament today. I think there are some negative aspects to this. On the subject of certification of construction, I would like to say that there are a number of municipalities which are certainly able to do the job now, and it is, in fact, the privatisation of a municipal task that is being set up here. I do not think it is right that municipalities should not also be certified. This is a wish expressed in some of the consultation answers, but the answer is not clear, and then one has to understand that one does not intend to respond to the desire for some municipalities to be certified. I think that would actually be a good solution, and I am sure that some of the larger municipalities could easily fulfil that task. I can also imagine some smaller municipalities which will think it an advantage that a smaller municipality does not, what to say, perform all tasks. So I think it is somewhat disappointing that a response has not been made and thus put in place to continue to use the expertise that lies in the municipalities. Whether building damage insurance means that there are some consultation answers that say that the tenants are disadvantaged. I think it is a little unclear and I very much hope that we will be able to clarify very clearly in the committee procedure whether the tenants will be put at a disadvantage by what has been proposed here. Then we think it is okay to say that there is clarity as to what kind of fees the municipalities can then charge. However, there is absolutely reason why we should look carefully at this matter in committee and clarify what is involved in allowing municipalities to be certified, so that larger municipalities can continue to carry out the task, or whether this is a privatisation proposal inherited by the government from the previous government. That does not change our attitude towards it. In other words, if we are dealing with tasks which we think the municipalities are doing well, then we see no reason to privatise them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126165135	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we have the next rapporteur, who is Mr. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126165142	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance welcomes this draft law on simplification in the construction process. It must be in everyone's interest for there to be as little paperwork as possible when building work is to be approved and, as has been suggested, we establish a certification system for documentation of the technical conditions, avoiding unnecessary duplication of work for the municipalities. We think that is common sense. Of course, a privately employed architect or adviser can just as well as a public servant demonstrate compliance with specific technical conditions, including an explanation of the materials and methods chosen and an assessment of whether they meet the requirements of the building regulations. Much of this work is purely documentation work. We therefore understand that, under the authority of the law, the Minister will explain the types of buildings concerned and in what form and in what way the documentation is to be submitted to the municipality. We trust this will happen and, of course, expect to see the announcement before. The part of the bill which exempts rental companies from obtaining offers for building damage insurance is expected to lead to a saving of around 60 million. kr. That has already been mentioned, and it certainly does not go down. We welcome this bill and expect a clear reduction in processing time and a slimming down of bureaucratic Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126165319	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Nikolai Amstrup, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126165326	Thank you very much. In the alternative, we are very pleased with legislative changes that make the laws more transparent and the casework more transparent, simple and effective. We are very fond of both transparency and debureaucratisation, so to start in a positive tone I would like to commend the government for wanting to take steps in that direction. The legislative consolidation, which brings together the design and operation related fire requirements in the same law, has also received much praise in the consultation responses, and the same must be said of it. We also believe that it makes sense to allow a small fixed fee for building cases to prevent an increasing number of incomplete building applications in the municipalities that have now provided free access to construction applications. We also understand that a certification system for technical documentation in more complex building cases allows companies to specialise in, for example. innovative building solutions, materials and execution methods. It sounds really exciting, especially in view of the fact that sustainable materials and methods, which can be difficult for all municipalities to stay up to date, will have the opportunity for a more precise treatment. Unfortunately, we also see the same thing as others. The architects' association in their consultation answers major uncertainties about the consequences of such a certification scheme. This applies, for example, to: responsibility for the technical approval of the building, any complaints and the responsibility for the bankruptcy of a certified undertaking and its consequences. There can also be uncertainty about possible conflicts with local plans. There has also been uncertainty in the consultation responses as to what the possible lack of local knowledge for a certified firm might mean for the approvals. Also, the fourth part of the bill, the exception to the requirement to have statutory building damage insurance for rental property, we find a number of uncertainties. The possibility of abuse of the scheme has been mentioned, lower rent security, problems in the resale of rental property for owner-occupied dwellings. So we see really positive moves in the draft law in terms of combining the fire requirements, but also uncertainties about the certification scheme and the exemption from the requirement for compulsory building damage insurance for rental homes. We cannot therefore immediately support the proposal, but will follow the work of the committee closely.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126165549	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126165559	For many years, while I have been a member of this thing, it has been discussed that it is too expensive to build in Denmark. I believe that both the Productivity Commission and various growth plans from one government and another have come up with various proposals that should make it cheaper to build and easier for us consumers to see through an offer from a craftsman or a contractor. After all, this is a problem that we have not solved yet, and this is a legislative proposal, and we can also see that in the consultation answers, is a step in the right direction towards standardising what it means to build, so that it becomes easier to see through offers and so that there can be more competition. Similarly, changes are made both to what has been mentioned by my colleagues about insurance when building housing, and to fire regulation, for example. must build warehouses. Some administrative reliefs have been made which we think are quite reasonable. That is why we believe that this bill brings everything in the right direction so that it becomes cheaper to build and so that it is easier as a consumer to understand what kind of offer you have received.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126165714	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126165726	The bill is quite a mixed country deal. I would like to start by saying that we think it is a good idea to bring together the provisions on fire safety, and it is also good that municipalities can now charge a fixed fee rather than an hourly price when dealing with construction cases. But we are sceptical when it comes to the certification scheme. As we can read in the hearings, among other things. From the architects, there are concerns. SF also supports the possibility for municipalities to be certified in this respect. We can also see that we are concerned about the deterioration in the quality of buildings. I also have to say that we are sceptical when we look at the proposal on insurance against building damage in the construction of rental property. It is true, of course, that the developer is still responsible, but the question is whether all builders also have the necessary economy to repair any damage. The SF will await the work of the committee, but, as I said, we are sceptical.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126165840	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126165851	Conservatives are in favour of the bill, which we see as an improvement which helps to make the handling of a building much simpler and which gives the municipalities a little more freedom of action to deal with it in the best possible way. I believe that many of the comments made by the previous rapporteurs are worth keeping an eye on, and a number of questions have also been raised in the hearings which make it clear that this is something we must follow in committee in the future. However, as a starting point, we are very positive about the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126165928	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then I will give the floor to the Minister for Transport and Building.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126165932	I would like to start by thanking you for the positive reception of the bill. At least there was considerable support for it, although I also heard that some had reservations. The building industry has been hit hard by the crisis, but there are signs of improvement, which is why we must also strengthen growth and employment in the construction industry throughout the country. With the bill we make it so easier and cheaper to build in Denmark. The bill thus implements parts of the government's proposal •Growth and development throughout Denmark •. With the bill, we then propose that the possibility be created of abolishing technical construction treatment in the municipalities. There were a few questions on that, which is why I would like to comment on some of it. The draft law means that when private and public builders in the future have to build complicated construction such as: floor construction, production facilities and sports halls, the municipalities no longer have to approve the concrete technical solutions in the building. In future, the municipalities will only have to ensure that a certified company has declared that the project meets the applicable technical requirements. Thus we avoid the problems we see today with builders seeing that a technical solution that obtains approval in one municipality is not approved in another. And we also prevent builders from meeting large and expensive documentation requirements that unduly delay construction projects as part of the construction process. The draft law provides for the possibility of introducing instead a certification scheme whereby engineers, architects and other advisers must demonstrate to the municipality that the building complies with the requirements of the building regulations as part of the design of the building. So with the certification scheme it will be the professional, certified company's knowledge that determines which solutions can be used to meet the technical requirements of the building regulations. It can be said that in this way the developers' ability to use innovative solutions and construction methods is not dependent on the technical skills available to each municipality. The draft law does not alter the fact that municipalities remain building authorities and still have to grant building permits. In addition, with the proposal, the municipalities will have to focus on the urban regulation conditions that are of local importance. The starting point for the implementation of the certification scheme is that the current level of safety in construction must be maintained. That is certainly the answer to a question that was about it. Because in this way it has also been stated that there should be no compromise on the safety and quality of construction in a certification scheme. So that's the whole foundation. The certification scheme does not alter the basic responsibilities of construction. Thus, it is still the owner of the building that is responsible for the legality of a building and, in the subsequent concrete design of the certification scheme, the competence requirements and control measures for the certified enterprises will be laid down. That is the answer to the question from another of the rapporteurs. I also attach importance to the possibility for both small and large companies to be certified in those areas of construction where they have their activities and competences. This means, for example, that there will be a difference between the requirements for documentation and certification, for example. must build two family houses, or if you have to build a hospital. The simple construction, for example. In the same way as today, one-family houses will be exempted from the special requirements for technical documentation of the complex building. The draft law is due to enter into force on 1 July 2016, after which the certification scheme will be implemented by means of a notice. On the question that some asked about this announcement, i.e. whether we are sure how this is going to happen, I can answer that I would like to make an agreement with the committee that I can come over, possibly in consultation or through a technical examination, and explain how we have thought about it. I think that is only natural, so you, as rapporteurs, also feel completely dressed to assess whether that is the way it should be implemented. Then there will be a transitional period during which both the existing rules for technical construction and the rules for the certification scheme will apply, and the transitional scheme will then have to ensure that sufficient volume is created in the scheme and that there are sufficient certified enterprises before it is made compulsory. During the transitional period, the choice of solution will be voluntary for the developer. Then it's about building damage insurance. In other words, the bill also simplifies construction damage insurance so that it is no longer a requirement that you have to take out a building damage insurance if you build a property to be rented out. This then means that it will be cheaper to build rental properties, and it is estimated that overall there will be less costs of approx. 60 million kr. annual for the builders who build rental properties. We propose to drop the current requirement for building damage insurance for rental property because the requirement does not provide the tenants with any additional protection in the event of a building damage. This is because only the owner of a property is covered by a building damage insurance. Instead, rents are protected by rental law. So if a building damage, for example... a lease is not in the condition specified by the lease contract, the tenant may make use of the non-compliance powers of the lease law. The proposal thus allows the owner of the building to save the cost of a building damage insurance policy without placing the tenants at a disadvantage. With the bill, we also finally propose that the rules in the Emergency Response Act on fire safety in connection with the design and operation of e.g. hotels, shops, day-care facilities and assembly rooms will be brought together in the building law. The fire protection of a building is now regulated in two different legislations, making the construction process unnecessarily complex. The aim of the draft law is therefore to avoid double regulation and ensure consistency in legislation. There is no change to the specific fire requirements imposed on the operation of the buildings covered, but the rules are put together in one place, which means that in future a builder will have to have only one construction case dealt with by one body, unlike now that there are usually two bodies involved in the municipality. So the compilation of the rules is therefore an administrative relief. In addition, the draft law allows municipalities in all types of construction cases to charge a small fixed fee. In order to be able to charge a small fixed fee, the municipalities have, moreover, made the construction process free of charge. Today, a number of municipalities have done so, and the change meets a request from the municipalities and must help ensure that the municipalities do not have to spend time on irresponsible and incomplete applications for building permits. It will be voluntary for municipalities whether they wish to make use of the possibility to charge a small fixed fee for construction cases, and thus municipalities can continue to opt for the construction process to finance through tax revenues or to charge after time. I would just like to emphasise, so that there is no misunderstanding here, that the government has a great deal of focus on ensuring that business is not subject to unnecessarily expensive regulation, and this is, in my view, the issue here, because the requirement for damage insurance in rental houses does not cover tenants already covered by the rules of the rental law. It is in fact only the landlord who owns the building that is covered by the insurance and it is not appropriate, as it must be up to the landlord himself to assess whether there is a need for a building damage insurance. So to the question where some said that it had been found that the tenants were being put at a disadvantage, I can say that it is the case that the tenants are not put at a disadvantage by abolishing the claim, and that is why we are proposing that it be removed. Then there has been one thing about the certification scheme that I think I have said a little about. However, I would just ask you to remember, when assessing the legislative proposal, that this is the clear starting point that the introduction of a certification system must not lead to a deterioration in the level of safety in our buildings. It should also be borne in mind that this means building a system of accreditation, which means ensuring that the accredited bodies have the right competences to demonstrate compliance with the technical provisions of the building regulations. Accrediting makes sure that it is the right companies and safety is essential. It is the responsibility of the developer and his advisers to ensure that the requirements of the building regulations are complied with in the construction work. The future certification scheme does not change that. In those words, I hope that we will be able to have a good reading in committee. And, as always, I would be happy to answer the questions and take part in any discussion that may be taking place.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126170841	Thank you, Minister. There is one question from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126170847	It's about the certification. In other words, if you have to enter and approve some companies to be able to carry out that task, then they have to be approved on the basis of what skills they have and what employees they have. It's natural enough. But then there will be some processes for the companies that are going to do a job well and quickly. I can be a little concerned about whether something is not going to happen there when a certified company has to carry out a task quickly and well. I am therefore a little more confident about the large municipalities which are already carrying out the task. I simply cannot imagine that Copenhagen and Aarhus will not be able to carry out this task. That's why I'm bringing this up about why municipalities can't also be certified. I understand that a small municipality with perhaps less than 5 000 inhabitants cannot have such a large building department, which can properly relate to a complex building, but I think that there are some larger municipalities which I am 100% sure can carry out the task. That is why I think it is essential in a committee procedure to clarify whether or not they can also be certified.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126170951	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126170953	Well, I understand it so well, as Mr. Thompson did. Søren Egge Rasmussen says, and I think it is good that we always have an open-minded talk about things. I just want to say that with this proposal I have not said that I do not believe that there are municipalities that can take on the task. But I have said that I think it is a good idea to discover something that is unnecessarily complicated and bureaucratic, so to correct it. Here it will certainly be the case for the companies that are building that they will now know that it is the same solution that you should have regardless of which municipality you are in. I think that's good. But I am happy to answer questions if there is any need for further clarification from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen's side.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126171034	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126171036	I see an opportunity here for us to have a good discussion in committee and perhaps move a single fence stake. I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126171048	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126171049	Well, I am delighted, and I would be very happy if Enhedslisten could finally support the proposal. I will certainly do my best to ensure that we can all be together in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126171059	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Transport and Building and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126171119	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Prehn, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126171148	On the socialist side, it is a happy day today to be able to start this bill on the light rail in Ring 3. The railroad in Ring 3 is public transport at its best, it is a strong vision where municipalities, regions and states work together to ensure a much better and more coherent public transport in the metropolitan area. We in the Socialist Group are pleased that this particular proposal has found favour with the otherwise very critical attitude of the Left Government towards public transport. We have seen that, among other things. in Aalborg had had the prospect of also having an easy track, but the proposal was dropped. It was no longer found relevant, the northern Jutlanders were abandoned quite badly, and now there is the prospect of traffic increasing and that you are going to sand up in traffic problems in northern Jutland. But fortunately, when it comes to the capital, the Left is on this proposal, and we are pleased about that by the Social Democrats. So we support this proposal, which in its simplicity is about us moving forward with the easy track, that instead of being called the light track in Ring 3, the project will now be called the Greater Copenhagen Letbane. It makes sense. It's gonna be a mile longer. Instead of 27 km it will be 28 km and there will also be 27 stations 28 stations. This is also due to the fact that the efforts that have been made here by the Danish Parliament's Transport Committee to fight for a better service of the Technical University of Denmark have been listened to, which has been taken into account, so that you can also have served not only the periphery of the Technical University of Denmark, but also the campus itself and serve the many students, employees, researchers and others. That's really positive. The light track in Ring 3 or the Greater Copenhagen Letbane, as it will be named with the proposal here, is an absolutely fabulous idea and strategy, where we e.g. can start in Ishøj at the beach park, you may have been down to the baths, you may have been at the art museum Arken, and then you can take the light track to Glostrup with the shopping centre, with large hospital, with other. You can move on to Herlev, where there is also a station where there is Herlev Hospital, and so on up to Lundtofte and the Technical University of Denmark, a number of different places where you also get past S-train stations and other, which are traffic hubs. What we're going to see is that the already rather brilliant urban planning or regional planning that is in the metropolitan area, with the finger plan, is now becoming even more optimal, where you can also cross these fingers, as the S-train lines illustrate in many ways, so you can transport yourself with this easy track. So it is tremendously positive and it will inevitably mean that more people are going to use public transport for the benefit of the climate and the environment, and it will also mean less congestion. That's really, really positive. The next thing we see is that new urban development, not least in Lyngby, where you have really laid down on your seat belt now and here, and where you also want better coverage of the Technical University of Denmark. There is also an entirely different urban development of the centre. There has been a very committed urban planning committee with Deputy Mayor Simon Pihl Sørensen in charge, who has beaten the drum for it, and it is exciting with new initiatives. This is the case in other cities too, so we are very, very positive from the Socialist side. It is planned that we will have 5-minute operations in the daytime and 10-minute operations in the evening and on Sundays and public holidays. We start the construction project here in 2017 and should be ready to run on the first light rail train in 2023, so we can all look forward to it. This is extremely positive. I would like to mention that there have been differences in terms of making the project even better. Some of the things we've heard from, among other things. Herlev's very talented and committed mayor Thomas Gyldal Petersen is that you are concerned about road safety when you pass Herlev Hospital, which is set up at a higher speed than the one originally planned. We will probably ask from the Socialist side whether it is now sufficiently well thought out whether we can be sure that road safety is okay and whether the municipality of Herlev will be subject to higher costs than was actually planned. All in all, however, we can support this proposal, although we in the Socialist Group are surprised that the government has been so busy dropping the easy track in Aalborg, which, as such, has a better social return than this project. Why not, when it is that we can see so much joy in public transport as there is in this project, spread it out to even more parts of the Danish country? We need more public transport, not less, and it is rather sad that the government has dropped the track in Aalborg, but we are delighted at this point that we can be in the same boat as the Left and strengthen the public traffic in the capital.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126171656	Thank you. There is one question from Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126171700	Thanks for the post. I'm gonna need to hear sir. Rasmus Prehn, whether he can confirm that the economy of this project is miserable, also compared to other possible traffic investments around the country, and whether he can also confirm that the light track is causing some very, very big problems for car traffic on Ring 3, and that it is not just a step forward, but that in many areas it actually also makes it harder to get to the surroundings of Copenhagen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126171731	Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126171734	It's really fun to get the question from Mr. Rasmus Jarlov. Because while I was preparing for this bill, I was just looking at the Internet, and here an election poster appeared with the Conservative Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, where it said no to the light track. So if it is that you think it is a good idea for public transport and you want to do something for the climate and the environment, which I thought they in the Conservative People's Party had just looked up to, then you should not vote for Mr Conservatives. Rasmus Jarlov and the Conservatives, for they are against the easy track. It is true that, compared to the way in which the economy is calculated in the Ministry of Finance, where it always counts negatively, if there are fewer cars and there is less pollution, then this is not the very best socio-economic aspect. But if you think it's a good thing that you think about the environment, and if you think it's a good thing that you shouldn't keep in line when driving, and if you think it's a good thing that you can get from A to B quickly, then it's excellent, also socio-economic. So with the way you calculate it now, it's negative, but it's more an expression of a bad way of calculating than it's an expression of quite a lot else.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126171833	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126171836	It doesn't seem quite logical that if you don't want to keep in line on Ring 3, then you have to go in for the light field, which narrows Ring 3, and which makes it harder to get on it. But I would like to ask Mr. Rasmus Prehn, who is very concerned about the light track in Aalborg, if when he talks to me, who is very concerned about the fact that we do not get an easy track in the vicinity of Copenhagen, he could imagine that he dropped the light track in the vicinity of Copenhagen, and then spent the money on other traffic investments around, for example in Aalborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126171906	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126171907	On the social democratic side, we are supporting a hundred percent of this project. We think it is excellent with this gigantic increase in public transport, and I would like to warn against the thinking of Conservatives. Rasmus Jarlov has. For it was quite the same mistake that many in North Jutland made, where both some of the conservative party colleagues, but also the Left, said that if you just get Aalborg easy track down the neck, then you will get a third Limfjord connection. But the thing is, what you've got is zero. There is no investment for North Jutland, there is nothing that is zero comma zero, nothing, and therefore it is a very, very dangerous suicide strategy that the Conservative People's Party is now proposing in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126171948	Then there is a question from Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126171951	Thank you. I would like to sign for a good and optimistic speech from the rapporteur. Rasmus Prehn's side, it's nice to experience. However, there was something that I must take as a statement, for Mr. Rasmus Prehn was shown to say that the Left had a skeptical or even negative approach to public transport. That's why I'm gonna ask Mr. Rasmus Prehn, if he can confirm that in 2009 the then government allocated 95 billion. kr. for transport investments up to 2020, and that since then broad political agreements have been reached, which means that two thirds of this much money goes to public transport. And if that's correct, sir. Rasmus Prehn saw that it represents a low priority and a negative attitude towards public transport by the then V-led government?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126172043	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126172045	After all, I was talking about the new Left Government and not about it earlier, but it is quite true that in 2009 a very broad settlement was reached in the Folketing, including with social democratic participation, where money was set aside for public transport, and that was also very ambitious investment. And there was the Left with the Social Democratic Party, that is absolutely correct. But as I remember, and if we are to be completely honest, it was probably a little more in the Social Democratic Party that the drum for public transport was beaten, whereas in the Left they were a little more busy saying that it was now the turn of the roads. What we are now seeing here with the new Left Government is that where they told the Danes with pipes and drums that, if they voted on the Left, they would get investment for the roads, they have seen that they have got nothing. Everything is off, everything has been dropped, nothing is going to happen, except for this fantastic project that has just been allowed to sneak through, and of course we are happy about that from the Socialist side.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126172137	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126172138	So we can see two things: the then government took the lead in massive investment in public transport, among other things. the project that we are debating here today, and the Left has been and we are happy to admit that we have a balanced approach to traffic. We believe in the Danes' free choice of mode of transport, and we believe in the car as a huge benefit for the very many Danes who do not have the opportunity to use public transport. However, since the rapporteur would like to bring Aalborg into this debate on the Ring 3 light rail, I would like to ask the rapporteur if he can confirm that the Aalborg municipality is now throwing its full force into getting a high-class bus project in Aalborg, which is likely to form a school for large parts of the Nordic region and Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126172223	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126172225	You have to be careful not to call it a balance when it is that there is zero to the roads and zero to the public traffic, because then it will be just a big hole in the ground, and that is unfortunately what we are seeing with the new Left Government. Balance is to invest in both, and that is also what we stand for from the socialist side, and we would have liked to see public transport investment as well as new roads, bridges and installations available. In relation to Aalborg, it is true that Aalborgensians and Northern Jutlanders always see the possibilities in the problems rather than the problems in the possibilities, and that is why, of course, you also see the situation in which you have ended up, as a starting point for doing something new, namely to think of new faster buses. So of course you find a solution in Aalborg that will get you to something. It just won't be as good as if it had been an easy track.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126172309	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kim Christiansen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126172323	Well, now I can't wait to see Mr. Knox. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen says there's another excited talk about this project, because it's a fantastic project. Sir. Rasmus Prehn has used all the superlatives, so it's hard to follow up, but I just want to say that the fact that you can now connect all the fingers, all the S-train fingers, so you don't necessarily have to turn around at the Central Station, because you really have to move only a few kilometres, of course will be a huge gain for public transport, and everything else will also be a benefit for the environment. It can't be any different when you get this connection between your fingers, with what is called the Greater Copenhagen Letbane I would have liked to have seen it called the Greater Copenhagen Trams, just like in the old days, because that's really what it is. But it's become so modern to call it an easy path, so we do. With this construction law, we really push the work that we have done in the past in a broad circle to push forward, as has been mentioned, from Lundtofte in the north to Ishøj in the south, a fantastic stretch. And one of the things that is pleasing is, of course, as mentioned earlier, that we got DTU, a huge workplace, in, so you'll also benefit from this public transport in relation to DTU's location. I think that's really good. Otherwise, the legislative proposal here, which we are adopting today, also contains a number of specific regulations in relation to legislation, among other things. builds some of it on experience with the metro construction, with regard to access to justice, etc. It is very technical, and I do not want to go into that; instead, I would like to welcome this light rail construction. I would just like to say that when you discuss the economy, it is a little funny, because you can almost get the result that you want, if you want to promote a project, and if you want to shoot it down, you can turn on some other buttons. We all know that this is the case, and we must also make it clear that there are plenty of studies showing that rail-borne traffic moves more passengers than buses do. That's just the way it is. It is and will be more attractive to get into an easy path than to get into a bus. Therefore, in relation to this project, we in the Danish People's Party also have a belief that it will promote the use of public transport and that we will get a little less cars in this corridor. So you can count it into the economy and you can calculate what is of waste time by having to enter and turn and change trains at Copenhagen Central Station time and time again and then you might have the idea that this could contribute billions of kroner to society, because we reduce the waiting time and travel time for a lot of people. In all other respects, e.g. If we're in line on the freeway, we're very, very fast to count this waiting time in and say that it costs society billions of dollars. So this is a very good project, which we in the Danish People's Party of course support.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126172626	Thank you. There are a few questions, and the first is from Mr. Rasmus Prehn, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126172632	On the socialist side, we would like to welcome the fact that the blue bloc's absolute largest party in relation to public transport is leading the way. That's a good thing. Now Mr. Kim Christiansen, that I had almost used up all the superlatives that were in relation to describing the project. Nevertheless, I think that the rapporteur has managed to get a little extra sneaked in, and I am very, very pleased about that. As we share the joy of light rails or trams or, at the very least, shiny traffic, when it is so brilliant and we can see how the initiatives are germinating and bubbling out in the municipalities that are going to have this easy track, can it not surprise the Danish People's Party's rapporteur that the government is dropping the project in Aalborg, which could have brought the same success, the same joy, the same boost both of public transport and the environment and the climate?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126172721	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126172723	The Danish People's Party would have liked to see Aalborg light rail become a reality, but we are also financially responsible. We are also in a financial law agreement, and we also have to deal with the fact that it was limited what was in the money box when the new government arrived. I have always said that I saw it a little like a delay, but in Aalborg you are creative and thinking that something you want, and if you can't get an easy path here and now, you have to work on these BRT solutions. I just hope that when you think about bus solutions, this high-class bus, you still keep it in a trace where rails can later be laid in. We have given money for this in the past, for example. out at the university where they made a trace for buses. So it was supposed to be shiny, they're not coming right now. But in Aalborg you still think away, that once again shines can be laid down.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126172820	Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126172823	However, it is a little interesting that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party said in his rapporteur's speech that when you make an easy path, it is actually such win-win, and that is something you can make money on. When it comes to the Finance Act, the Danish People's Party isn't really quite involved anyway, because well yes, and how is it now? Seems a little weird. But okay, it is positive that the Danish People's Party would like to support what is happening in Aalborg. Is it the case that we can count on when there are negotiations now, for example? in the "Better and cheaper collective traffic" circle, that the Danish People's Party will then help to secure the framework for this BRT solution in Aalborg, which could thus also in the longer term be an easy path solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126172902	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126172904	I shall not advance what we will support in due course when we have to have negotiations in the better and cheaper public services, but Mr. Rasmus Prehn is welcome to play with the fact that you have to give money for this. So I would say in relation to the Finance Act that there was something like this with a slumped cash box, and there we also have to be responsible and make some decisions, and if it was in relation to whether we had to build a light track for 1 billion in Aalborg, or if we had to save a billion on the elderly, then we chose to scrap the light track in this round anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126172933	Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126172937	Thank you very much. It is quite true that for those who need to use the light field, of course this gives an increased comprehension, but you can't look at it in isolation. After all, one has to look at what is the overall effect for all road users when it comes to assessing whether this is a project that benefits the reality or not. And there is the problem, of course, that the light track will take some of the roadway, which means that buses and cars will come forward more slowly on the already very pressed Ring 3. What I'm gonna ask, sir. Kim Christiansen about, is: Could you imagine that there were better ways to spend the money? Could there be some other traffic projects, for example in East Jutland, just to mention a random area which might have been more urgent after Mr. Kim Christiansen's perception? Or could the money be spent on an older billion or on increased border controls? Or is there anything else you could imagine? This is an invitation to discuss whether this is the right way to spend the money.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126173031	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126173032	Now you have to be careful in your zeal to promote your own resistance to this project, that you don't mix pears and apples together. Because this has nothing to do with whether we could move the money over to East Jutland. By the way, we in Aarhus are completing Denmark's first light track, which is a quite excellent project. This is a project about an easy path in Ring 3, which binds the entire finger plan together. It is a unique and visionary project that we have helped to promote, and we think that is a good thing. And it's probably a little polemical when Mr. Rasmus Jarlov asks if we would like to spend the money on border controls. Yeah, of course we could, if there was enough money. But now we don't expect it to cost so much money to close the border. We already have such a fairly good way of dealing with this with the current government. But we would like to see it promoted even more.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126173124	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126173124-2	That was then a partial answer to the question, because I was given the answer that border controls would certainly be a better use of the money. But I didn't really get an answer as to whether this traffic project is the most urgent after mr. Kim Christiansen's view, or whether there could be other traffic projects around the country that made more sense in terms of making money available. Isn't there any other investment that could be better?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126173150	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126173152	It's always a priority. I think we have projects for 20 billion. kr., which is more or less ready for cooking, and where for some of them there is a civil engineering law there are several motorway projects that are already ready. There are lots of good projects, but where we are currently. lack of funding. Now we have chosen to promote this easy path, which has been in process for a very, very long time, and in which we have also constantly dropped money. So I see no reason to start reprioritizing there. For then we can always enter into a discussion of what is now suddenly emerging from new projects that could be more appropriate. This is a really good project to solve some congestion in the Ring 3 corridor, and I believe that the easy track can do that, and I actually believe that this is going to be quite a sensible business.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126173237	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126173240	Thank you. I would also like to congratulate Mr. Kim Christiansen for a good speech and a positive approach to this. And then it's all about Mr. Knox. Rasmus Prehn's comments on this, I just want to ask if Mr. Kim Christiansen can confirm that when, in conjunction with the 2016 Finance Act, a construction break has been started in 2016, which everyone who is here is annoyed about, it is a result of the former government actually leaving a rather sluggish box and a ruptured national plant ceiling.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126173315	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126173316	I can confirm, and we can see from the Finance Act, that there was not the money in the box that was hoped for and expected. Therefore, you have of course had to make some tightenings and stop some things in 2016. It is, of course, necessary to do so if you are a responsible politician. However, as I have said in relation to the construction ceiling, it is a bit funny that it is all the infrastructure projects that are at the top in terms of number of building blocks. It could be that there was something down there that you could have put up at the top. But now it has hit the construction and infrastructure projects. I think that is a pity, of course, but we must accept that. And then we need a 2016 where not so much happens on that front. Then, of course, I hope that in 2017, together with the government, we can tackle all the tasks that lie ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126173406	Thank you. There's no question in round two. Then there are no more brief comments, and we thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. That is the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126173424	Thank you. After all, the legislative proposal here is the result of a broad political traffic agreement from 2009, where we, among other things, are. prioritized an easy track on the Ring 3-traceet. I am convinced that a great many commuters and others who use public transport in the metropolitan area are looking forward to the light track here on Ring 3 once opening. After all, it is planned that the construction will start in 2017, and that it will be completed in 2023, alternatively 2024. This bill sets out the final route for the 28 km light rail on the Ring 3 corridor, indicating 28 stations, control and maintenance centres and conversion stations. In addition, we give authority to the company behind the light track on Ring 3 to build the track and subsequently operate the light track. It is clear that a comprehensive construction project such as this cannot be carried out without discomfort to the neighbours, including in terms of noise pollution while work is ongoing. Furthermore, construction work may have negative consequences for the availability of cars and trucks in the area. Of course, this inhibiting effect on road traffic must be minimised as much as possible, otherwise it will cost society considerable losses as a result of prolonged driving time. That is why I am pleased that the government has just written into the draft law, that account must be taken of the availability of cars, why it may be necessary to carry out a number of works in the evening, night and weekends in order to avoid disrupting traffic during peak hours. And we all know what it looks like in the metropolitan area. We must always go to maintain the momentum of traffic. At the same time, the bill takes account of the neighbours by implementing various preventive measures aimed at maintaining the presence and reducing as much noise as possible from construction work. The Minister for Transport and Building will include: take the initiative to draw up a noise management plan in cooperation with the municipalities concerned. There is no doubt that the light track on Ring 3 will strengthen mobility in the metropolitan area across the fingers and make life easier for commuters and other passengers. With this bill, we are taking the next important step towards achieving the project. The Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126173650	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Rasmus Prehn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126173654	After all, it is a real pleasure to hear this committed talk about public transport and all that an easy path in the capital can contribute. This is very good, and we take the hat off from the Social Democrats that in this case the Left will help to lift public transport. However, when the rapporteur of the Left talks about all the benefits and all the municipalities that are taking the initiative for urban development are creating new jobs, new growth and where a whole lot is happening, is it not a little strange that there should not be the same opportunities in Aalborg, where they had been promised an easy path?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126173735	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126173736	Now it is that the project here is the result of a broad settlement from 2009, which we all stand by and are happy about, whereas the light track in Aalborg was the result of a very narrow political agreement, which there is no longer a majority for here in the Folketing. Moreover, it was a very dubious financing that was provided by the light rail, because it is clear that the national construction ceiling had been blown up and there was no room for it. So that's why I think, sir. Rasmus Prehn should be pleased that we can now implement it here, and also welcome the fact that now in Aalborg there is a good alternative solution, which is much cheaper and which will probably have a good and positive socio-economic effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126173820	Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126173821	Thanks again for the answer. It still seems strange when it is the case that there is a better socio-economic environment in the Aalborg project than there is in this project that the Left is not part of it. But don't worry about it. I would like to welcome this project, which I think is amazingly good. This really is a boost for public transport, for the environment and climate. It's really, really good. Now I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech that there was little concern in Herlev about road safety and other matters. Is this something that the Left, together with us Social Democrats, will help to look at, so that they too in Herlev will be happy about this project?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126173853	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126173854	But it is quite certain that we must take account of the safety aspects that have been mentioned, and I think we will have to do more in committee. But I would just like to say again: when the Left initiates some projects and agreements, we like that money is there and it was just in 2009; there we got 95 billion people's crowns, which were there, whereas others do not care quite so much about whether the money is there. It's so different. I know I'm putting the case a little on the head now, but that's the reason for that. Here the money was there, and they were not really there when the light track was agreed in Aalborg. That is what separates the two projects.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126173935	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126173938	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I think it is very sensible to try, of course, to take account of car traffic, as the draft law says. It would also be foolish if you didn't do it. But the problem is not entirely resolved, because there is limited space on the area on which the light track must lie. There will be areas on Ring 3, where car traffic is very crowded. Specifically, in Lyngby you will close Klampenborgvej, which is a very important main route through the municipality, which has a rather difficult geography because of some lakes that delimit the area on which you can build roads. That's why I'd like to know if Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen would acknowledge that this is going to mean that car traffic in the vicinity of Copenhagen is being greatly pressured. And I'm going to ask the same question to Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, whom I have put to other rapporteurs, if not other transport projects around the country, which the socio-economic and comprehensibility made more sense than this easy path.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126174035	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126174036	As I have said, this is the result of a broad political agreement, in which the Conservative People's Party is also involved. And we stand by that agreement, we're not gonna start doing anything like that again. But I do acknowledge that I guess there are some advantages to the railways. It's more high-class collective traffic when it's shiny. But there are also some drawbacks, for example. that they take up space on roadways and therefore may have an inhibiting effect on the presence on the roads. So there are pros and cons. In addition, light rails are generally a fairly expensive solution compared to e.g. high-class bus solutions. But this project was agreed many years ago by a large crowd here in the Folketing, and of course we stand by that. Now we have to get it done.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126174120	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126174122	Thank you for recognising the problems of the light rail project. I think that is also important to include in the overall picture. It is true that there is a political agreement. Political agreements can of course be changed if the parties to the agreement agree on this, and that is why I would like to ask a few questions to the parties involved in the agreement to know what the possibilities are for avoiding this light rail project and perhaps not forsaking the link, but getting a bus solution instead, which inevitably makes much more sense socio-economic.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126174156	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126174157	It is always fine for questions to be asked, but the Left has no intention of abandoning the agreement we reached several years ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126174204	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and move on to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mr Gundelach's report. Henning Hylllested. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126174217	This is a very good project, and it is, first and foremost, because it strengthens public transport in the metropolitan area. Some, and especially the Socialist rapporteur, have wondered a little about the fact that this project, but not the project in Aalborg, has got through. Part of the explanation is that this project like the light rail project in Odense and Århus was so advanced that you couldn't really stop it. Unfortunately, this was not the case with the light rail project in Aalborg, which could be better stopped. That is very, very regrettable, but I think that is part of the explanation. We also think it is good that we have listened and that there has now been the change of direction, both at DTU and at Ishøj. It is true, as has been noted, that it is now changing its name to the Greater Copenhagen Letbane. We are not so concerned about this, but if it could cover up the fact that we had also started the analyses which we have actually decided to initiate in the better and cheaper conciliation circle, if a single light rail in the capital, then much would have been achieved. But otherwise it is very, very clear that it is the experience of the metro construction that is haunting here. It is quite clear that the draft law generally places great emphasis on the momentum and that the project cannot be stopped by, for example. neighbors etc., as we saw with the metro construction. Propulsion is given priority over the surrounding environment in terms of noise, dust and vibration. Here it should be noted that the bill also envisages that it will also be necessary for the other traffic on Ring 3 to work in the evening and night and on weekends as well. That was exactly one of the problems that caused a lot of problems in the construction of the metro. That is why it has also been written directly that you must and I quote 'handle the problems in a way other than that provided by the ordinary environmental regulation'. That is why the draft law introduces special rules, a special regulation, which means that, according to the draft law, the Ministry of Transport takes over completely and takes care of the nature protection and environmental legislation, and that the municipalities' supervision and the Nature and Environmental Complaints Board are put out of business in this regard. After all, they played a negative role in the optics of the Ministry of Transport, in helping to make decisions which eventually had a suspensive effect on the construction of the metro. It is clear that that is what is involved here. In addition, we also note that people are being cut off from redress. In fact, we think that is quite, quite serious. Then, of course, you operate immediately, as you also found out at the end of the metro building, namely that you can make some settlement agreements. If you encounter a violent breach of the limits of dust, noise and vibration, you can make an agreement with the residents to give them some compensation or resettlement or ultimately take over their homes. Now I do not think there is an expectation that the problems of Ring 3 with the light track will be as severe as they have been on the subway, but you cannot know that. Then, in the comments to the bill, much is done to explain that the Aarhus Convention has been respected, and just the fact that one is doing so much to explain oneself is enough for me and the Enhedslisten to become much more suspicious. I would also venture to claim that the Aarhus Convention is clearly challenged with this bill. This applies, among other things, to: The Aarhus Convention states that we must have an inexpensive, easy and rapid review of this. The only thing left for residents who will complain about the genes caused by this project is a court decision. I can see that the comments made by the draft law say that it must be done cheaply, but that requires the hire of lawyers, and I do not know whether a draft law can make itself the master of the costs and say that it must not cost anything. In any case, then, there must be a number of subsidies, and I have not been able to read them out to do so. In the committee's work, we will be making proposals on • and I hope that the committee will be involved in this • that we will have an expert assessment of some of the things I have mentioned here. This is true both in relation to nature protection and environmental legislation and in relation to the Aarhus Convention. We would specifically encourage Peter Pagh, a professor at the University of Copenhagen in environmental law and EU environmental law, and as we have had in other contexts before, to assess this for us.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126174744	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Prehn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126174750	There is a strange way of knowing that when you have some bill, you can be sure forever that once Enhedslisten has looked at it, it has been through such an acid bath of critical reviews, and there is not a single comma that gets to stand wrong. So there you can be reasonably comfortable about it. It's also very nice in one way or another just to get repeated that Enhedslisten was rather strangely opposed to the metro. But it's okay. What actually led me to speak is that something else puzzles me. Now I know that Mr. Henning Hyllested is very tan and trained here in the Folketing. Does it not also surprise the Enhedslisten's rapporteur to hear the Conservative rapporteur today? For I had understood that the Conservative People's Party has tried to stage itself in a new way. It hasn't gone so well in recent years, so now they have to try the green line. Now we must make such a mark on the environment and on climate. Isn't it weird that they're against the light field now? Does it not surprise one of the right green parties, namely Enhedslisten, that the Conservatives are suddenly saying a lot about the green, but are against the light track?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126174853	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126174853-2	Yeah, you might be wondering about that for taking the last one here first. Of course, we welcome the fact that there are more and more parties joining the green line, including the Conservatives. We must recognise that. That's why I don't understand the resistance either. You are also part of the light rail agreement in Ring 3, and I do not understand it either. I could imagine, but sir... Rasmus Jarlov is trying to explain that it is such some kind of populism. There aren't many parties in this Parliament that want to mess with drivers, and drivers are a powerful factor. I could imagine it was due to some of it. Because it is quite correct, as it has been in the question round, that the light rail will of course steal land from the cars, from the road area to the cars. Of course. That is, I would almost say, one of the objectives. The point of the light track is precisely to transfer car traffic to public traffic and even a high-class one of the kinds: an easy path.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126174950	Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126174951	Well, I am very pleased that Enhedslisten's rapporteur was able to confirm that I am not the only one who has the wonder that you stage as a green party, and then you talk about a lot of black politics. That's weird. However, as I heard, the Enhedslisten's rapporteur said that the Conservatives are actually involved in the conciliation. That's how I've seen it. However, we are in complete doubt, because when you hear the Conservative rapporteur, it sounds as if they are not in the conciliation. In other words, does the rapporteur see it as particularly conservative to be involved in making a settlement and then to speak against it in the Parliamentary Assembly?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126175031	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126175032	Now, then, the Conservatives must explain their own position on being in a conciliation and then perhaps not support it or only support it half-heartedly and something like that. I'm not gonna stand here and judge that. I am sorry, of course, that the Conservatives do not wholeheartedly support this project, because it is a good one and it is a strengthening of public transport. And if they're against it, we could almost think that it was for completely ideological reasons, that is, that you shouldn't bother cars and drivers and in that way. You could get that impression when Mr. Rasmus Jarlov is asking about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126175110	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126175114	I think it's quite funny that sir. Rasmus Prehn is trying to start a debate on conservative politics between the Social Democrats and the Enhedslisten. Alternatively, you could have chosen to wait until I was on the platform so that you could ask questions directly to me if you wanted to know something about conservative politics. It was perhaps a more natural approach, one might say. It is actually just to say what I am speaking so that people who may hear the debate get that comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126175139	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126175141	I therefore agree with the Conservative rapporteur. I also think it was kind of a skin discussion or a straw-man discussion. But okay, that gave me the opportunity to say something about public transport versus carism, so fine for me.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126175154	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov apostates. Then there are no more brief comments, and we thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line with the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, Mr. Villum Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126175206	The Liberal Alliance is a member of the green traffic agreement settlement circle and will therefore recommend this construction bill on the easy path of the capital from Ishøj to Lundtofte. Large-scale agreements, of course, require giving and taking, and for our sake we should be quick about it, I have to say, before this project starts. Well, now it's been delayed too. I could come up with projects that were much more necessary in order to get to grips with the debate from before. On the one hand, there is a very poor socio-economic situation in this project; it is rare that we invest billions in something with negative returns, but that is actually the case here. On the one hand, the project will not change much in terms of car traffic and environmental impact; on the other hand, the environmental impact will be enormous when light rail is built. I think most people will agree with that. One of the things we can unfortunately also be absolutely sure about is that it will bother a great many people during the construction phase and that it will reduce the overall capacity of car traffic, which will probably seek other routes, i.e. other parallel streets, we can see in the comments. Public transport is very expensive, and we have seen in the press this week that although we invest twice as much in public transport as in private transport, and we have done so in this conciliation, car traffic is actually continuing to increase. It has become a luxury to be transported in public transport, so expensive it has become. Some would say that we need to spend even more money on these collective solutions, but I am not quite sure about that. Since these very large investments, which we are making in the big cities, are of course very long-term, with a look that looks perhaps 50, 60 and 80 years ahead of us, we should also start to take into account the opportunities that technology offers us. The driverless car is actually just around the corner, some say, i.e. if you can mean 5-10 years with just around the corner. Few people will probably disagree with the fact that it is going to play some role, depending on the extent, and then the congestion problems will quietly disappear, as soon as fewer cars will drive all the time and move many more passengers per passenger. Unit. It will not only be in rush hour, there is traffic, because the cars are driving all the time. It means fewer cars, and we also know that they are smaller. So we must at least think very carefully when we make these very large investments, which must go a long way in time. However, as I said at the beginning of my speech, we are bound by this, so we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126175526	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Henning Hylllested. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126175531	It was just to the rapporteur's remark that we had not seen the light at all when these driverless cars come in. I think the rapporteur said that this will quietly mean that the tribulation will disappear. I actually think that's how it was said. Does this mean that in the future the Liberal Alliance will not support the extension of the motorway network or perhaps the state road network at all, but in particular the motorway network, including that around the capital, because in the near future, 5-10 years I could understand, it can be predicted that the congestion on the roads will quietly disappear?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126175611	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126175612	Now the congestion is the biggest in the cities, and I could come up with a lot of places where we need to expand our motorway network, but I actually believe that, whatever projects we decide, we should take the technological considerations and opportunities into account in the way we look at the projects. Because we can very, very easily have spent the money wrong when we look 50-100 years ahead. The Committee on Transport and Tourism, for example, has Been in Boston looking at the trials that run there. And this means, of course, that in many ways we can suddenly get parks inside the city, where there have been parking lots, and as I said, the cars drive all the time; you don't first drop the car in the parking garage at work and drive home again, no, it drives all the time, and it goes without saying that this is a huge reduction. I don't know how fast things are going, nobody really can, but it's important to include that aspect. I think that is a good thing when we invest as much money as we do in this project.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126175719	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126175722	Well, I very much agree with the vision outlined here by the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, and I believe that the predictions that are there are very correct. But then, as the rapporteur himself has said, we must take the consequences of this and say that it may well be that it is now that we no longer have to invest in, for example. the motorway and, above all, the extension of the road network, including in the cities, because we can foresee some dramatic changes perhaps taking place, which could also be facilitated by the strengthening of public transport. I would urge the rapporteur to go to his partners on the other side, the bourgeois wing, and tell them what it might look like in the future or probably will look like in the future. I would like to welcome that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126175808	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126175809	Thank you so much. But when I think it is really important to say it right here, it is precisely because we are dealing with a project which has a very, very poor return and which virtually no environmental improvement can indicate. We have seen that in the comments. And then I think you should be even more careful when you argue for it from up here and say: well, it may be that the economy is not so good, but the environment and climate must always be flagged. And then it is a pity to spend so much money when there are no environmental improvements, and then perhaps we will find ourselves in a situation where technology helps us a great deal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126175847	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126175849	I would like to thank you for the clearly best rapporteur speech so far. I think it is good to hear that the Liberal Alliance is concerned that we are spending the money in Denmark in a way that provides an economic return, rather than spending 4 billion. kr. on a project that actually makes Denmark poorer and has a dubious effect on the appearance. I just want to sign and then ask the Liberal Alliance to confirm, if there are other parties who would also like to take the discussion, that it is then, of course, possible to cancel this project.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126175921	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126175923	Thank you for your point of view. I think I'll wait to talk about this until the minister gets up. Then we might be able to ask what options we have to stop the project. At least it won't bother me.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126175937	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov. Apostates. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and move on to the rapporteur of the alternative, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Nikolai Amstrup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126175946	Thank you very much. As we have heard from several of the rapporteurs, the bill lays down the final line of the light rail line on Ring 3, the Main Town Letbane, and the authority for the Main Town Letbane I/S to construct and operate the light rail line. We are in the alternative very positive towards the light rail and we look forward to seeing the process around the light rail move forward sensibly. It is really important for the traffic flow around Copenhagen to create alternatives to driving and additional public transport opportunities, and we look with great anticipation at the project's execution in practice. We also believe that a great deal has been done in the process to take account of natural areas, line-up and so on. We would therefore like to be able to give our undivided support to the proposal. That's close. We think that there is a little bit more to discuss in committee, and this is, of course, about the removal of the right of appeal, which Mr. Henning Hyllested also mentioned. We understand that there is a need to keep large constructions on short leash with the metro in fresh memory. Nevertheless, we find it questionable that the draft law includes such a general removal of the right of appeal in relation to the project. We are therefore fundamentally positive about the easy track of Ring 3, but we would very much like to hear more about the removal of the right of appeal and the breach of the case law that is taking place.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126180123	Thank you very much for your speech. I would like to clarify why the alternative is so positive about the project, because I really see the alternative as a party that listens a lot to people who understand things. And when there are reports that have figured out that a bus solution is much more socio-economic, because you get much more relevance to the money, why does the alternative stick to a network project? I am not assuming that one has such a dogmatic approach to it, that is to say that one per. definition seems that public transport is just better. I assume that you have a sober approach to things where you would like to have the best solutions and do not lock up in advance that it should be either public or private or something else.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126180209	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126180213	Thank you. It is true that we do not have a dogmatic approach to it. I also listened with interest to what the Liberal Alliance rapporteur said about his future vision of driverless cars and electric cars. When it comes to the economy in the easy way, I have to say that there are many ways of calculating these things. They are, as they are now, calculated in one way, but there may be other ways of seeing it. There may also be some social consequences of public transport compared to the rail-borne versus bus. We therefore see light rail as a very good public transport solution that underpins public transport, which is already in the capital.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126180257	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126180301	I always get a little sad when politicians just sweep experts down the table by saying that there are many ways to calculate things. Then I think we have to say in concrete terms what has been wrongly calculated. I would also like to know what the social consequences are which are having an easy path compared to having a bus solution? So I find it very difficult to see the difference between this kind of social difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126180326	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126180329	It is our impression, our view, that rail-borne traffic provides easier settlement and takes more passengers, thus providing a better opportunity to move passengers around. That is one of the social contexts to which I refer.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126180340	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and move on to the next rapporteur. It is the rapporteur of the Radicals, Mr President. Andreas Steenberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126180352	Often and often you can both rejoice and marvel at our amazing little country. It is now 7 years since a large majority in the Danish Parliament decided to make an easy path on Ring 3 here in the capital, and you haven't started building yet. The reason why you can still enjoy it is because we in Denmark are doing it properly when we say that we want to hear both municipalities, residents, companies and so on, and you really have to say that this project has been done. I have been a transport rapporteur for just over four years now, and there have really been many rounds on this project with a line-up, with an economy and so on. etc. Now we have finally managed to get the lines right, get all these municipalities with us, and now we can finally deal with this bill today and the next few weeks. It's a challenge with this easy path that you have here in the capital city the finger plan that many of my colleagues have been talking about, where it's like with our fingers that you can't really get across your fingers unless you drive right into your handroot. This is what we see here in Copenhagen, where you may, unless you take a bus, go all the way in and turn around Copenhagen Central Station and then drive out of town again in a different direction. This light track goes across the S-train fingers and connects the public traffic really well. This is, after all, a settlement in which the Conservative People's Party and the Liberal Alliance are involved, and it is for that reason that we are somewhat surprised at the great debate today, because the parties have committed themselves to voting in favour, and it is therefore surprising that we are being aired whether we can avoid this easy path. It is therefore a seven-year-old political agreement which I clearly expect the two parties to continue to support, because it is the case with conciliation that sometimes we are also involved in something that some others would like to have, in this case among other things. Radical Left. Social economy I think I can say a few words about. With the debate that has taken place, I am surprised that Mr. Rasmus Jarlov is probably asking a question in a moment... using this economy as much as Mr. Rasmus Jarlov does because his own president, Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, who has been Mayor of Viborg, supports a motorway project for Viborg, which is the project of those we are looking at, who have the worst socio-economic situation, in fact so bad that if you follow the very clear lines of the Ministry of Finance, you should completely drop it. I agree with Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen in saying that you should not drop the project because you can put much more into such a calculation than what you do, for example. business effects, as Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, who is also elected in Viborg, has pointed out many times, namely that one should think it a little wider. It's the same thing with this project. It can also be said that something like the metro here in Copenhagen has a poor socio-economic situation, because it is assumed in the calculation that the cars can drive 50 km/h. and the metro runs only 40-45 km/h. on average, and ergo one thinks that then one loses time building a metro, and then there is poor socio-economics. But everyone knows you don't drive 50 km/h. in a car in the inner city of Copenhagen, as is the case with the ring track here, that you don't drive 110 or 80 km/h. Everyone knows that because there are the cows there, and this can help to loosen up a bit on the car queues in Copenhagen, and the challenge here in Copenhagen knows that there is not much room for extending the motorways either. So much support from the Radical Left for this project, which we see as something where you get even more out of the public transport that is already because you get it tied together in a more appropriate way.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126180801	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126180806	I think it was the worst defence of a project that I have ever heard, namely that it highlights the fact that another politician is in favour of another project which you think is a bad idea. What I am interested to hear from the radical rapporteur now that he is standing on the platform is why Radicals support the project that we are about to vote on in the Assembly. That's what this is about. It is not about motorways in Viborg or about everything else. One must be able to defend here why it is thought that a project which is socio-economically a slumping deficit business for Denmark is sensible to implement it also in view of the fact that we do not have infinite money in the Treasury. We must give priority to transport projects and, in fact, we must also give priority to society's other expenditure. Mr. Andreas Steenberg on the basis that this is a sensible project?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126180849	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126180853	Yeah, I mean that. I fully agree with the chairman of the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, when he criticizes only a socio-economic calculation. That's why I mentioned that project in Viborg, because there it is, after all, the Conservative People's Party's position that you should look at it a little wider and not just look blindly at this figure, which is primarily an estimate of a theoretical time saving. I fully agree with the Conservative People's Party there. And if you take the same view on this project and take in the business effects and see how to tie up the public transport network in this case the S-train network and the subway are even better together, then I think this is a good investment, just as I think this motorway project at Viborg is a good investment, even though this calculation shows something else.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126180942	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126180946	I am very pleased that Mr. Andreas Steenberg agrees with Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, because then we're agreed to abandon this project, because we don't want it on the conservative side. But I don't think that's it, sir. Andreas Steenberg meant. I do not really think I was given the answer to the question. In other words, is this project, which has a dubious effect on the availability, where there are calculations showing that a bus solution would be better and create more comprehension, because one avoids narrowing the much-pressed Ring 3, which lies in the same place where the light railroad now has to take up part of the roadway, really the best thing the Radicals think one can spend the money on such purely transport policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126181021	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126181025	I fully agree with the Conservative People's Party, which will end up voting for this bill because you are in an agreement on it. We think it's a good project because it binds the metro and the S-train together. We therefore believe that we can lift even more traffic with that infrastructure because we are tying it together. As other rapporteurs have also said, it is also said that there is a so-called rail effect: that a train car solution can lift more traffic than a bus solution. That's why, together with the Conservative People's Party, we chose this to be an easy path and not a bus solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126181057	Then it's mr. Henning Hylllested. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126181101	I'm worried about that, sir. Andreas Steenberg and the Radical Left, that in this bill we are in fact proposing to hinder people's access to justice? As I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, there is no doubt that the metro is haunting here, quite clearly. But it is so important to consider the momentum of the project that, after Mr. Andreas Steenberg's view is necessary to override people's ability to complain and to refer them to possibly seek compensation or resettlement in the end without being able to escape the environmental nuisances that can easily come out of such a project?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126181146	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126181148	The way we do this here is the normal way of creating a state facility, and there have, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, been seven years of discussions in the municipalities and with public hearings and citizen involvement. And the reason why we now choose to adopt it by law is that we have been taught by what happened to the subway, where these complaints had suspensory effect, which in practice made it impossible to actually build a subway, at least not without it being enormously expensive. That's also why we're doing this, so if this is going to be possible both within that time frame, but also within the financial framework, then this is how it's supposed to be. And we certainly do not feel bad about doing it this way when you look at the very, very long process of hearings and municipal elections and corporate involvement and debates in this Chamber. So we believe there has been ample opportunity to be heard, and the project has also been changed many times along the way over the seven years. So now I think we can say that we have come to where we also need to start building it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126181253	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126181255	Yes, but the question is very specific and, of course, in this context we can also talk about the Århus Convention and whether the public is properly informed. One can of course say that we have had a process and that we have had hearings, but is the individual resident of Ring 3, who is bothered by this, properly informed? I think it is a matter of concern and it is such that, in principle, you cut people off from the redress options you have and refer them to a court decision which can be quite expensive, regardless of what you write in the law and in the observations. It is, after all, like the more fundamental approach to it, that a project can really be weighted so much, even in price, that citizens' complaints are disregarded?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126181336	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126181338	I think it is very important for citizens to be consulted, and that is also why we can be proud of the way we do things in Denmark, which is in stark contrast to a country like China. We have had several years of hearings, citizens' meetings, and many of these municipalities, as far as I remember, have also held 19 municipalities with a large number of meetings involving companies and institutions. But I also think that at some point we have to say that we are now building; now we have had a long democratic discussion for seven years, and now we have come to where we are also about to build this easy path.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126181415	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Then we move on to the SF's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126181428	Even under bourgeois governments, the sun can pee between the clouds, and it did so in 2009 with the big traffic reconciliation. Railways strengthen public transport, which will now also be much better connected, and that is what is needed. Urban roads are now rivers of pollution and noise, and a lot of time is wasted sitting and curling in car cows to the detriment of citizens and to the detriment of the environment and climate. Therefore, it is a task to move people from cars to trains, buses and light railroads. There is a future in that. With Ring 3, the public transport gets a much needed boost. Congratulations to the capital.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126181522	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. And that's the Conservative rapporteur, sir. Rasmus Jarlov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126181547	I have been looking forward to taking the floor, since there have been rapporteurs along the way who have spent most of their speaking time talking about the conservative attitude towards the light field rather than talking about their own. We shall now proceed to that, namely the Conservative position on this project, and we would like to avoid this easy-track project. We will, because we need to prioritise traffic projects around the country. And when we have here a project which socio-economically makes Denmark poorer and where it is very doubtful whether there will be more comprehension, then we do not think it is sensible to implement it. When it's doubtful if there'll be more comprehension, it's because the easy track is going to narrow Ring 3. This means, of course, that the people who use the light track will be able to come forward more quickly, while the people who use buses and cars and it is many, many hundreds of thousands who use Ring 3 will come forward slower. Overall, it is very doubtful whether this is a good way of creating a reality. This poses major challenges for car traffic. It also provides local around, especially in Lyngby, some very major problems where Klampenborgvej has to be closed. It's a highway in that area and it's causing very big problems out there. So there are other transport projects that will be more necessary and that will be better use of the money. I would like to mention a few examples: the port tunnel in Copenhagen, the light rail link in Aalborg, and the extension of the ring roads in the capital city would also be sensible. An extension of the E45 in Østjylland or the Funen motorway will also be better traffic projects. After all, there is a political agreement from 2009 onwards. It was a very, very big deal. There were many things that were included in that agreement, including some traffic projects that Conservatives are very excited about. And, of course, you have to stand by such an agreement because it cannot be that way if we conclude a political agreement where there are some parts that we are delighted about and some parts that we are not so excited about, that we then implement the things that we are excited about and jump from the things that we are less enthusiastic about. That is not the way to act as a political party. But that is why I would like to urge the other parties involved in this agreement to look at it again. The price has risen on this light rail project. There have also been a lot of calculations showing that it is not socio-economic or traffic-related a good project. And this political agreement can of course be changed if the parties to the agreement want to change it. I just want to report that Conservatives are ready for that. I was really happy to hear from the Liberal Alliance that they were ready for that too, and so it is actually up to the other parties. I do not have a great deal of optimism, since I have heard the other rapporteurs here today, but I will fight as much for the matter as I can at all. I am also going to ask a number of questions in the further process and very much hope that we can avoid this project.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126181849	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126181855	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov is a little puzzled that we have been debating the position of the Conservatives in this matter, and also that we have asked about other rapporteurs. But when you've experienced Mr. Rasmus Jarlov and the Conservatives in this matter, you might as well say that you might as well ask Mr. Conservatives. Henning Hyllested on conservative politics like Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, for it simply floats in the wind what they mean. I need to hear something. The Conservative People's Party has launched itself as a green party that will do something for climate, for environment, for combating tribulation. Then how can you be against this project? So I want to hear: who under the former VK government actually launched this proposal? Who was the Transport Minister who launched this idea and implemented it in 2009? What was the name of the Transport Minister in 2009 and from which party did he come?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126181943	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126181945	I hope I can answer everything within one minute. That was a lot of questions. It was a broad political agreement under Transport Minister Lars Barfoed of my party, in which there were traffic projects that were better than others that were included in this very, very large transport agreement. This was one of the less good projects that came along, and it is not true that it was Conservatives who launched the project back then. When we are opposed to this project, it is precisely because, as Mr. Rasmus Prehn says that we are in favour of doing something about the tribulation. Then it's about making the projects that make the money the most accessible, and it's not this easy path. For it is good for those who use the light track, but it is bad for the hundreds of thousands of people who use Ring 3, which is a main transporter in the metropolitan area and which it is absolutely essential to get to work and not narrow.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126182044	Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126182048	Then we may start to know the Conservatives a little bit again, because now you are the party for those who can afford a car, but not the party for those who only have the opportunity to run collectively, and for the many students at DTU who need to come forward. Then you know the Conservatives. But isn't it exactly true that it was Mr. Lars Barfoed, the later Conservative party leader who was out with pipes and drums and launching this proposal in the media as his own Conservative proposal, a proposal that would be a big step forward for public transport? Is it not true that this was just a conservative proposal, launched by the then Minister for Transport, Mr. Lars Barfoed?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126182130	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126182132	I do not think that is right. And I am also more concerned that we are discussing what we are doing today. For me, as I say here, it is crucial that sensible decisions are taken. I have said quite clearly that yes, we are part of this political agreement. That is what I have said all the way through, even during my election campaign, and that is why, of course, in order to avoid this project, it is necessary for the parties to be involved. I'm telling you clearly here that we're ready to drop the project, but then it's up to, among other things. Mr. Rasmus Prehn and the Social Democrats, if you wish. I just think that the Socialists must then take responsibility and say that there is an honest difference of opinion here between the Socialists and the Conservatives, and there is nothing wrong with the fact that we have different priorities and that we judge differently whether this project is good or bad. I find that more interesting than the other, as Mr. Rasmus Prehn drives around.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126182232	Sir. Henning Hylllested, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126182237	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov has now repeatedly said that it is a problem that the light rail in Ring 3 steals road area from the cars, so to speak, and that is true. It does, but when you do rail projects on a road, it necessarily has to take area from the cars. But it could also be said that this is the intention at all. The idea of light rail projects and public transport is not only to offer an offer to those who do not have the opportunity to drive, but it is also to reduce existing car traffic in order to eliminate the congestion in the city. It also has a good spill-over effect on our environment and our climate. But, of course, the intention is that a good collective means of transport should then be made available to those drivers who should not be allowed to drive by Ring 3. So it is true that the area is removed from the drivers, but that is strictly what is meant, too, if you want something with the talk that you want to dampen the hardship.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126182343	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126182345	That's frankly speaking from Mr. Knox. Henning Hyllested, and I respect that you have the transport policy, that if you can narrow the roadway, it is positive, and then it reduces the congestion. I don't agree with you. I think it is important for drivers to be able to come forward as well. I believe that both buses and private cars are essential for the Danes and specifically here people in the metropolitan area to make their everyday life work. That is why I am vertically opposed to deliberately narrowing the roadway on some very large and important highways. But it is an honest difference of opinion between Enhedslisten's and Conservatives' traffic policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126182428	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126182431	If you do not want to seek public transport solutions, I would say to Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the road network will only be extended. This really means that it shows all the research, and experience shows that it generates more and more car traffic. At the same time, it undermines the passenger base of public transport and therefore, in my opinion, it has a double negative effect. It undermines public transport, yet traffic sands up after a few years, just because more and more cars are coming. We have seen this, not least in the metropolitan area and around the metropolitan area. As highways and access roads to the capital have expanded, traffic has grown and again sanded. So it is not a solution, and therefore alternative solutions must be found in the eye of the goose, as the light rail is after all.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126182520	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126182522	The best transport projects are, of course, those where it is possible to make it easier for a group of road users to come forward without bothering another group of road users; that is the very best thing. If you can expand public transport without compromising the road network, that is a good thing. If you can extend the road network without affecting public transport, that is a good thing. Then there may be some situations, and so it is very often when there is a balance between the fact that one can significantly improve the conditions of a group of road users, and then one has to live with a slight deterioration in the conditions of another group of road users. What is important is that the overall situation increases. I am just not convinced that is the case with this easy-track solution, because it is not very effective for trams to be used on the road where cars cannot then be driven when the light-track is not there.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126182610	Then it's mr. Kim Christiansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126182613	Thank you. Well, now I can understand Mr. Knox. Rasmus Jarlov, that the Conservatives, after all, won't break this settlement. But it is interesting, after all, because, as I remember the 2009 settlement, it was a conservative minister who was at least very active in getting a motorway up in Frederikssund, with which, after all, we have also come along. But let's imagine that this was the Conservatives' price for getting that highway, and then you'll have to stand by the settlements that you make, and then don't just start to see if you can pick out elements that may not have just grown in your garden.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126182649	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126182650	That is absolutely right, and that is also how I remember the 2009 conciliation, even though I was a long way from the Folketing at that time. But we got some projects into the very big transport agreement from then on, and I also said in my rapporteur's speech that it cannot be the case that afterwards we will not vote in favour of the projects that we are less enthusiastic about and then just get the projects that we are enthusiastic about. The agreement is, of course, a whole, and there you have to take the pissed off with the sweet. But that is why we can still call on the transport rapporteurs who are sitting in this Chamber, given that we have a project which is obviously not very good for either comprehension or socio-economic considerations, to reconsider it. It is up to the Danish People's Party whether you want to join it or not. Could I get a message from the Danish People's Party whether it would be a good idea to spend the money on something more sensible? That would be very, very positive and a step along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126182750	Sir. Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126182751	Now I'm the one who has to ask questions here. Sir. Rasmus Jarlov has had the opportunity, and I also replied that we are very much in favour of this project. I would like to know whether there are other things in this 2009 agreement that the Conservatives do not want to join anyway or would like to have a discussion about not joining. That's one thing. This money, like mr. Rasmus Jarlov talks a lot about, you could spend much better on other projects. Couldn't you have an idea what that was? I heard a talk about how you might be able to use them better in Jutland. I shall not be able to say if you can, but it might be interesting to get the Conservatives' view of where this money could be spent here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126182830	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126182834	There are no other things in the 2009 agreement that we think should be taken out. However, I now reserve the right, in future too, if we meet transport projects where new calculations have been made, new figures on how much it costs to say that agreements are not more sacred than agreements can be changed by the parties that have concluded them. As far as I am concerned, this is probably the worst transport project that can be carried out on the basis of socio-economic and practical considerations, and I therefore believe that a large number of other projects are now not being mentioned, because the President asks me to stop the work being better carried out.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126182913	Then it's mr. Magnus Heunicke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126182917	Thank you. I did not really intend to interfere in the debate here, but only to follow it very interestedly. But it was a little too interesting to hear Mr. Rasmus Jarlov tells us about the Conservative People's Party's view. I was, and there are in fact more in this Chamber who were involved in the negotiations in 2009. Let me just say that in August, as a prelude to the negotiations, one could open the Berlingske Tidende.I believe that it was the front page of the Berlingske Tidende, as far as I remember, where the then Conservative Transport Minister proudly and bramlessly declared himself a wholehearted supporter and proposer of an easy path in the Ring 3 corridor. I quote here from the Berlingske Tidende: There are plenty of commuters who use Ring 3 because they work on the other side of the capital. By establishing better conditions for public transport, we will be able to reduce that traffic, and this can be done among other things. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: He got so much praise back then, and so did the Conservatives, and now they were the Green Party. It was also at the time that Connie Hedegaard was heard and so on. But it's kind of slipped out, I can understand now, and I think that's just a shame. It is quite fair that we have changed our position, but it is not fair to say that we have had that attitude all the time, because we have not.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126183022	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126183024	So, here we have a slightly unequal debate, I must admit: I, who was not in 2009 with a long-standing transport politician. I have to say that this is just not how I saw the agreement from then on. But I must also say that that is not the interesting thing. Well, the interesting thing is what we mean today. I do not think it is illegitimate that I say today: we stand by a political agreement, we always do as a party, but we would also like to say that all agreements can be changed if the parties to the agreement can be persuaded to do so. That is why I am putting my energy into trying to persuade the parties to agree to change the agreement. Again, I find it more interesting that the Socialists defend the position they have, rather than hanging on to what was said in 2009.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126183113	Sir. Magnus Heunicke.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126183115	Well, so do we. We're voting in favour. And I understand that the Conservative People's Party too, after all, is voting in favour, even though it has changed its position since then. I think that if you as a voter care about public transport, you are also concerned about whether you can count on what is being said. I am here with a transcript of the debate in the Parliamentary Chamber during the last parliamentary term, when Mike Legarth was the transport rapporteur for the Conservatives. That was the time when there was a proposal, L 65, about easy track on Ring 3, i.e. about exactly the same thing. There are, of course, some stages to come through with such a proposal here. And I quote Mike Legarth, who says that this is a good proposal, because you move some traffic off the streets and alleys, that is, off the roads. That alone is positive and public transport is much better linked together. That's what the Conservatives said before the election here. So it is important enough that we, as the electorate, know where we have our party when such important issues as the strengthening of public transport, a place where it is really necessary, are discussed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126183210	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126183212	But I am not accountable for what other politicians have meant in the past. I am accountable for the agreements we have made as a party, but I am not accountable for the statements made by Lars Barfoed or by Mike Legarth in the past. I will tell you what is my position and I will tell you what is the position of the Conservative People's Party. And then we stand by the agreements that we have made. But I have also had a talk with Mike Legarth, and I think he has changed his mind after he has seen how much trouble this project causes, among other things. out in the Lyngby area.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126183243	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and then we give the floor to the Minister for Transport and Building. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126183259	Thank you to the rapporteurs for receiving the bill. After all, the State participates in the light rail project together with the 11 municipalities that are affected by the light rail network, as well as the Capital Region of Denmark. The aim of the law is to determine the route of the light rail, and this is therefore a construction law. After all, the project has a high degree of local anchoring. This has been the case all the way through, and this has also been emphasised in the EIA process that has preceded the submission of the bill. It is therefore the local parties who have decided on the route and the route has changed both in the municipalities of Ishøj and Lyngby-Taarbæk, because there were many objections to the initial route proposed in the EIA report. The two municipalities then chose to listen to the citizens and therefore asked the Letbane of the capital for a change of route. A supplement was then prepared to the EIA statement on the changes, which has subsequently been incorporated into the basis of the draft law. Of course, not everyone is happy with changes, but that will always be the case with large construction projects, especially projects in densely built areas. When infrastructure changes occur, the nearest neighbours are affected to some extent. But, of course, we are responsible for the work and for limiting the influence. Fortunately, it almost always turns out that once a new plant is completed and put into service, most people will be happy with the new and better public transport services. That's how I hope it's going to go with the project on Ring 3. Another example of listening to those who have objected to the project is that the project's timetable has been changed in the light of the consultation responses of the cable owners to the bill. It is clear from the principle agreement between the 13 stakeholders and also from the applicable law that the final decision to implement the installation is taken only after the tender process has been completed and all stakeholders have accepted the winning bid. The cable owners pointed out that, therefore, a situation could arise in which the cable owners had spent very large sums of money on converting wires completely unnecessary and in vain if the tendering process led to the project having to be abandoned. After all, cable owners have to pay to convert wires, which are like what they call a guest in the way. And since that situation could lead to a large financial compensation requirement against the partnership, the owner company chose to listen to the cable owners. In addition, the cable owners had a number of other concerns to which we have also listened. A rapid-working committee has thus been set up to look at the issues and provide a report which will be sent to the Transport and Building Committee. The aim is for the reporting to be included in the legislative process. With these final remarks, I hope that the draft law will be dealt with in a favourable manner, and I am, of course, prepared to respond to the committee's questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126183542	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Prehn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126183548	On the social democratic side, we cannot help but welcome the fact that the government is involved in this proposal, that, in the midst of this darkness of construction projects put on standby, where nothing is to be done, despite everything in this area, we are helping to lift public transport for the benefit of climate and environment and the fight against congestion. That is very, very positive. So big a cadeau for the Minister of Transport to be on this project. I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech that there were some concerns for Herlev Municipality, where the skilled and committed mayor Mr. Thomas Gyldal Petersen has been out asking questions about the speed with which to drive through Herlev in relation to road safety and other things. Is this something that the Minister will help to look at with us from the Socialist side?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126183632	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126183633	Well, I think we should look at all the things and remarks that come in, so I would like to do that here too. As far as I am concerned, I would like to say that I think it is a good idea for us to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126183647	Sir. Rasmus Prehn apostates. Then it's mr. Villum Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126183653	Thank you. In fact, I am also so old yesterday that I was in the negotiations seven years ago, and I am quite sure that when this project was proposed, not many people knew that it would give such a miserable economy and that there was absolutely no climate and environmental benefits. I don't think a lot of people knew that. In relation to the debate that Mr. Rasmus Jarlov has brought up, I'd like to ask the Minister because we're allowed to get smarter: Is it practically possible to stop the project at this time?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126183731	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126183734	After all, it is difficult to give an assessment of it, and I would like to know the rapporteur in writing, so I also have an opportunity to examine it. However, if you look at the project in this context, you also recognise that there have been some expenses there have been, of course, I have to say straight away that one might well be able to stop the project. Yeah, I think you can.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126183800	Sir. Villum Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126183803	I can, of course, ask this as a written question, but does the Minister have a sense of what has been used so far? We have other major projects, among others. Fehmarn, where a lot of money has been spent and can hang on a thin thread. I'm sure a lot of people have become smarter now, and we've seen a lot of resistance to this project. Does the Minister have an estimate of what has been used so far?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126183829	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126183831	It will then be the case that I have a feeling of it, but I understand that the questioner is asking about it, and the questioner does not need to make any more of that now, because I have already noted it down. We are happy to send you a reply so that the committee, when considering the proposal, can be informed of the means used. I would also like, if that is what the questioner wants and that is how I have to understand it in detail under which conditions you can stop it. Because I am of the opinion that of course you should have an answer to what you ask, and I am happy to do so here, if that is what the questioner wants, and I can see it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126183907	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126183911	I just want to ask you about the Minister's visions in this area. Because one thing is easy on Ring 3. It has had a difficult birth, we have to say; at least many years have passed, as the radical rapporteur mentioned earlier. But does the Minister see this as the beginning of a coherent light rail system in the capital? I ask, of course, because in the better and cheaper conciliation circle we put money into analyses which the Minister then removed. Then they came back, but at least they've been pruned, so I don't really know what it's gonna be. But does the Minister see this as a vision and a beginning of a coherent light rail in the metropolitan area?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126183948	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126183950	Now I know that the questioner has only two options to put questions, so I will do what I can to answer some of this. But that is not a precise question. If you go in and look at the project, you can at least say that if this is to be such a coherent project, you have to tell yourself that you have to bring a lot of money from home. For this project is so characterised by a negative growth in society, which means that it is very expensive for society to do such projects here. But most people know that after they've read it through, because you can see that. I do not quite know exactly what the questioner was going for, but in relation to making more such projects, one should remember that just as the project in Aalborg gave a considerable negative growth in society, so it is also doing so here in Copenhagen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126184050	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126184052	But it was just like getting around with this negative socio-economic effect, which one now thinks can be pointed out. The synergy effect, which may lie in having an expanded light track, just as you have in a whole range of large cities all over the world, should be able to produce a better socio-economic effect. Apart from that, what I am saying is that it is considered public transport, as a means of combating congestion and as a means of improving the climate and the environment, it is clear that a coherent network has a synergy effect. I am thinking of an easy track on Frederikssundsvej with connection to the light track on Ring 3, on a light track maybe led further into Nørrebrogade, on a light track along the road on the brigade in the metropolitan area and in many other places. It should be able to give that synergy effect, which will ensure that these projects will at some point also come out positively.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126184152	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126184154	I don't know any calculations showing that, I have to say. I haven't seen them. I do not know about the fact that in itself it was something that was important socio-economically. I recognise the position that people want to make light rails and that is what we are doing here because they say that there are some things they want to promote with it. I do not know of calculations which, overall, should yield a great deal of socio-economic gain, but I would like to look into it and answer it. This also applies to environmental benefits. I cannot find them either, but I would like to answer the question, and then we can try to look at it and look into it. I'd love to.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126184231	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126184233	I think it is very positive that the Minister speaks frankly about things and says that this socio-economically makes a deficit. Then you can choose to prioritize it anyway, if you think it's nice to have, and you're willing to spend some part of our wealth on having this easy track. It's a perfectly honest political priority. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he shares the view expressed by several of the rapporteurs, namely that socio-economic calculations can simply be set aside. Does the Minister agree with that, or would the Minister consider that the calculations are probably a very good guide for transport projects? And in the same ball street: can the Minister not also confirm that there are other projects around which socio-economically have better accounts than the easy track?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126184318	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126184319	So, to the last question, the answer is quite clear: yes, there is. On the other hand, the fact that you may go in and assess the project as such, I would say that you can of course do it on the basis of different approaches. Here it is clear that it is a settlement that has been reached, and that is why it can be said that, regardless of whether it comes out with negative growth or not, that is what we are implementing. There may be other arguments for doing so, but now I hear the questioner in isolation asking me the question of purely economic matters. And it has to be said that Aalborg Letbane just fell, because there was no conciliation. It was something that a very, very narrow majority had agreed in a Finance Act, and that is why we did not in any way feel obliged to carry out a project in Aalborg, which would clearly mean negative growth for society.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126184406	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126184408	Thank you very much. It is also an interesting insight into the political process, and one can say that it is not necessarily the projects that are most needed that are being implemented, but that it is also a question of what the political parties will be involved in in the Assembly. I would also like to hear the Minister, who has been involved in transport policy for many years, if it is not true that, when the agreement was concluded, there were different views and different wishes on which projects were considered to be best, and that this is also the expression of a very large overall agreement, where different parties had different views on which projects should be favoured.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126184444	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126184445	It is my very clear impression that this was the case, that of course the assessments were very different, and that there were some who wanted some projects to be included, regardless of how they were now assessed. And I think it is quite all right, and I hear the questioner does not have a different view that one can say: that is how we want it, because that is what we want politically. That's what I was trying to answer to Mr. Henning Hylllested. So, yes, there are some people who want some projects, and I think that's how all the conciliation deals are made. But it is not the case that this was done because it was considered that there was a great economic gain for society. It was a political priority. That's the only way I can see it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126184532	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Transport and Building. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126184549	The debate is open. And we start by giving the floor to the Minister for Transport and Building. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126184610	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that I sympathise with the proposal, but it is not surprising, since the Left helped to table a motion for a resolution in the spring of last year, among other things. contained an increase in general road speed to 90 km/h. Overall, I believe that it should be a goal to make speed limits comprehensible and logical for road users. It benefits traffic morals, and it benefits and increases respect for speed limits. If the speed limits are seen as too low, compared to what feels safe on a given road, there is a tendency to exceed them. Of course, this will not be the case, but I would just point out that this is how we see it. And that also undermines respect for speed limits where they make good sense. But, of course, there are some things that are important to keep in mind. You have to assess the roads, and right now the Road Directorate is finalising their report on how things have been going on the 100 km state road, where for three years we have been driving at 90 km/h. I think it is fair that we see what the experiment shows. It was, moreover, an attempt which was initiated while I myself was Minister for Transport last time, and so I have to say that I think it is a good idea for us to have it examined. But I expect that we will have the result in a very short time. Then there is another matter that we need to assess just now, and it is not a criticism of those who have made the resolution, because it is not always the case that we think all things through. This is true of how to name different paths. The Traffic Act basically distinguishes between roads in a denser built-up area where the speed limit is 50 km/h and roads outside a denser built-up area where the speed limit is 80 km/h. In addition, there are, of course, motorways and motorways. If we still use the term 'roads' and it is very natural to do 'roads', then all roads are not roads in a more densely built area, motorways or motorways. After all, it leaves a motley crowd of road types ranging from major roads in some urban areas to the wide network of small roads in the countryside. And a very large part of the roads we call highways are municipal roads with very narrow lanes and sharp turns. Other roads are actually roads in some of the suburbs around Copenhagen. That is why, when we get the Road Directorate's report, we should also look at what kind of roads we really are thinking about when we talk about roads. It is also important that we remember that there is of course also some economy in this. If we do not have the concept of roads in the legislation today when it comes to selecting lines of 90 km/h, it is because it requires a special signage and it costs some money. In addition, experience shows that it may be necessary to upgrade many of the selected sections with some safety measures that make it safe and safe to allow 90 km/h. We must look at this together, but I would like to say to the proposers that I have a positive approach to it. I have been most surprised today that there have been a few journalists who have seen that there should be a contradiction here. I have tried to show my positive approach in my speech, and I hope that the proposers will understand this very clearly. No, it's about me thinking that when you have a report on the way, it would be a good idea just to see what the report says. So, is there any experience here that can help us find out how we are going to do it in the future? The second is that I fully understand and, as I said, it is no criticism at all that the term 'roads' is used, because we all do that more or less. But we just have to, when we go in and start looking at something like that, just looking at what kind of people we're thinking about. So I would just like to hope that somehow we can find each other in committee so that we can write in some way what we would like with it. But that has to depend on a debate. However, overall, and while I am finishing, I would like to reiterate my sympathy for the proposal and that I am also prepared to move towards achieving sensible speed limits on major Danish roads, which we are already in full swing with. And then, in February, the government is putting forward a bill to make it possible to raise the speed limit on motor routes to 100 km/h, where it makes sense and is road safety-friendly. But let us see the evaluation of the Road Directorate's experiments and decide on the further steps in relation to the roads on a better and enlightened basis. And then I think we can simply go and find something sensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126185105	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kim Christiansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126185108	Thank you for that and thank you for the positive words on the proposal, after all. Other things would have puzzled me a lot, too, since you yourself have been involved in putting it forward before the elections. What just made me want to ask the Minister a single question was this study being carried out by the Road Directorate. It seems that a motion for a resolution on this subject could be tabled in the Left without being aware of the Vejdirektoratet's evaluation of this experiment. Is it different when it's a B proposal than when it's a bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126185141	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126185143	No, it is the case that when you are in government and we just have an evaluation of the attempt to set it up from 80 km/h. to 90 km/h, it's just that it makes the most sense to see it. With regard to what I have just said, namely motorway routes, it is the case that where this has been done, it is also the case that road safety is followed up in terms of road safety. What I think is the proposer's point, at least that is how I have interpreted it, is, as I understand it, that perhaps the proposer would like there to be stretches where the speed could be raised from 80 km/h. to 90 km/h, without having to invest a lot of money in it. 'Cause if you don't, you gotta get in there and find that money. I have certainly allowed myself to interpret it that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126185233	Sir. Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126185236	Then the Minister has interpreted it correctly, because this does not mean, of course, that we have to turn all the small side roads in the Kingdom of Denmark into a standard motorway. I think the Minister really knows that too. Now this could be a dispute about defining the word 'roads'. But basically I think the Minister knows what is meant by roads in this proposal, because that is perhaps some of the routes that the Road Directorate has already tried to do. Then we have stretches in Jutland, where you can't actually see the end of the road, even if it's clear weather. Now the Minister also mentioned that some of these roads are actually in urban areas, and I hope we agree that when we are in urban development we are down to 50 km/h, and then it has nothing to do with a road. So I hope this is not going to be a dispute over a definition of what is a road.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126185330	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126185332	Well, that's what I'm gonna do. That's not what I'm gonna do. But I don't think we need to spend much time on this either. I say that there is always a difference in this when you table a resolution and use a term as a road and when it comes from government offices. There we are also visited by lawyers who say that we should remember that when we discuss traffic laws, there is no term called highways. Then there are some in urban development, then there are motorways or motorways, and then there are all the other roads. And if you intend to distinguish between them, you must have just defined how to do it. I'm prepared for us to find a definition. I can hear that the proposer is also. I also believe that in this case we will have the opportunity to find each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126185414	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we thank the Minister. Then we start with the rapporteur's line and the first rapporteur is the Socialist rapporteur, Mr. Erik Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126185435	Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 9 of the Danish People's Party is that we should generally raise the speed limit on Danish roads from 80 km/h. to 90 km/h. Like the Minister, I should like to start by dwelling a little on the concept of Danish roads, because I do not think it is clear from the motion for a resolution what is meant by the concept of Danish roads either. Is it the Danish highways that are meant, or is it all roads outside urban settlement that are meant, and thus also a number of small winding roads around the country? I must also say that the Socialists are not in favour of generally raising the speed from 80 km/h. to 90 km/h, whether in terms of the concept of Danish roads or highways. We are generally opposed to raising the speed of the roads slashing the main roads because we know that speed is a factor in more than half of all road deaths, and we can see in the statistics that the highways slash the main roads are over-represented in the statistics of the most serious accidents. Having said that, we are not opposed to examining whether there are routes where it makes sense and does not reduce road safety to increase the authorised speed from 80 km/h. It is important, therefore, that we do not compromise on safety, because we should actually go hand in hand with safety. Why, then, do we think it might be sensible to examine whether there are lines where the speed can be raised from 80 km/h? to 90 km/h.? After all, we know from the mid-term review of the experiment referred to by the Minister, from 2011, when the Road Directorate of 100 km of selected lines has raised the speed from 80 km/h. to 90 km/h. that it has not actually resulted in more road deaths on those routes and that it has not generally led people to drive stronger. And according to the experts, a large spread in speed means that more will try to overtake, which may mean more dangerous situations with the risk of accident. In other words, a higher speed on some sections may mean less spread in speed and hence fewer accidents, road deaths and injuries. It is also the case that the police actually stated in relation to these selected sections that on these sections, contrary to what they thought, it has actually led to greater road safety. Then it is the case that we know what is happening when, as road users, we may not always comply with the speed limit, because if we go some way, where there is a good, long view, we may find it a little pointless that there is a relatively low speed and are therefore tempted to drive stronger than allowed. That is why it is true that if, on the selected sections, where it can make sense, you can actually reduce the spread of traffic, that is to say on the speed, it could actually lead to greater safety. However, as I said, we cannot vote in favour of the resolution. In fact, we, like the Minister, believe that it is most sensible to wait for the proper evaluation, because at this stage we only have a mid-term evaluation of the experiment. In fact, I also believe that we will then have a more objective basis for making the decision. In this context, I would like to say that we would call on all parties of the Folketing to engage in close dialogue with the Road Directorate, the police and the municipalities, which will also be included in this case, and when the evaluation is available, in a joint discussion on whether or not on certain selected sections we can increase the speed from 80 km/h. and 90 km/h, and this could, for example, result in a joint report. To conclude, I would like to say to what the Minister said: it is also very sensible to look at whether it is actually the case that we can also increase speed from 90 km/h on motorways. 100 km/h. on lines where it makes sense. So, as I said, we do not support the proposal to raise the speed from 80 km/h in general. to 90 km/h but calls for a discussion among all the parties of the Folketing that on selected sections it will be roadworthy to raise the speed from 80 km/h. to 90 km/h.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126185839	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henning Hylllested. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126185844	This is surely not quite true when the rapporteur claims that the mid-term review of the experiment showed that the pace had not increased. Because, yeah, it was when I think it was 2 km/h. on average, the speed had increased by. And that's what he thinks, because that's what was meant to be, that you should be able to drive faster than 80 km/h, that is 90 km/h. So it's not true that the speed didn't go up. There is, of course, a consequence of increasing speed, and that is that the accidents that occur become more serious, with several serious injuries and deaths.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126185932	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126185933	If I have to refer from the mid-term review to the article that was in Jyllands-Posten, it actually says that the slowest drivers have speeded up, but the fastest, 15%. By drivers, today averages 1 km/h. Slow down. In fact, this means that we can say that those who were driving too fast have slowed down and those who may have helped traffic just not to have the proper slide have actually speeded up. That is also part of the whole explanation that we get a smaller spread in speed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126190005	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126190007	Precisely, the slowest drivers were supposed to be those who were driving to the speed limit, i.e. 80 km/h., one must assume that the speed has increased with the consequences of speeding up.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126190023	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126190025	So that's how to suggest it. Slowest drivers in my world are not those who comply with speed limits, they are the drivers who may not choose to drive 80 km/h but drive 70 km/h. or 75 km/h.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126190035	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and move on to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126190045	Thank you for that, President. I would like to start by thanking the Danish People's Party for this motion for a resolution, for which the Left has great sympathy, and indeed I am a little pleased to hear it when I read it. We share the desire for more logical speed limits, including on the roads, and we do so on the basis of the vision. 90 km/h. In the case of safe roads, the mobility of society will be enhanced. In addition, and this is very important, a more logical and reasonable speed limit will contribute to an increased understanding and respect of speed limits among drivers. It strengthens traffic morals and therefore also road safety. Of course, dangerous places in traffic where there may be a need to maintain 80 km/h must be taken into account. or sign down to 70 km/h. or lower. Now this should not be a dispute over definitions, but it is important that in the debate we are quite keen on what we mean by the word road. The word road includes the larger, equal and secure state roads and a large number of former county roads, which are now administered by the municipalities. It's one category. Another category covered by the word road is the many, many kilometres smaller municipal roads with narrow lanes and many turns, some also call them secondary roads. However, when we are about to legislate on this at a faster pace, it is of course important that we be very sharp and take into account the difference that exists, and that is why we have asked the Road Directorate to look into it. It is also clear that there is an introduction of 90 km/h. on roads may need road safety compensatory measures in some places, and that costs money. This is true, for example. signs, car guards, fill-up of ditches, and it may be wood felling for reasons of clarity, etc. Obviously, we also need to find this money before we can use it. In April 2011, we launched a three-year trial at 90 km/h. on a number of selected road sections, about 100 km of stretch, as far as I remember, and this has actually produced very promising results. This suggests that there are actually fewer people driving over 100 km/h. on those lines where we raised the speed limit. There is also evidence that traffic has become more slippery by the fact that some of those driving very slowly drive a little faster, so that we get a better flow of traffic, for the benefit of safety. So it is very promising, and the Left notes that right now the Road Directorate is working to complete the report that comes on the results of this experiment, and when we have that report, we have a very good technical basis for introducing speed with sense on the roads. As I have said, the Left has very much sympathy for this sensible proposal from the Danish People's Party and we look forward to the further examination of the proposal by the committee, which we hope will be able to land with a report that will provide the framework for further work across the government and the parties to get 90 km/h in place. on far more of our safe highways. The left thus maintains the target in 90 km/h. I would therefore like to say that I share the amazement of the Minister of Transport at today's mention of this matter in parts of the press. Because we're gonna continue the advance on this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126190426	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kim Christiansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126190430	Thank you. I can contribute a little bit to solving it if Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen is a little puzzled by the press's approach to this. Well, maybe it's because mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen in the previous session, precisely when we had a joint resolution on it, was referred to as a promise that the blue parties had made to each other, and it was a handshake that when there was a change of government it would be implemented, and that is why I simply felt that, when I saw the government's legislative catalogue, I thought that they had forgotten that. So it's basically of pure helpfulness, because of course I'm a little sad if you've forgotten about this. But I also understand that Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen raises the problem with regard to the concept of road, and that has actually been taken straight out of our joint resolution. So a road is no different than it was then. But I'm just gonna ask sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen about something. If there are other things we have a handshake on, can we expect it to stand? Because this didn't work out, at least not in the first place.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126190542	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126190544	First of all, I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for its helpfulness. It is always nice to have helpful friends, and it is true that not everything is included in the first collection of legislation. But this government has a plan to sit 3-4 years, and then it's very good to have some ammo in the cannon over the first year. So it may be a good idea to stretch it out, and here is an extra argument for it. For the word highways I've become aware of that we need to drill a little more, and then we're ready to go on with this. And that is not a criticism of the current proposals of the Danish People's Party, on the contrary, and we will then have the concrete results of the experiments we are undertaking. Actually, I think that's really good. So the Danish People's Party kicks in an open door, and the Left intends to pursue the goal that we also had before the elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126190633	Thank you. Sir. Kim Christiansen apostates. And then it's sir. Henning Hylllested. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126190647	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen will have to be dragged with me. It's interesting and funny, yes, I don't know how funny it is, but it's certainly interesting to sit and listen to the spin that is so delivered when Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen is on the I have challenged this way of arguing before, because it basically conceals the need for higher speed, and it does not matter whether we are talking about motorways or motorways or highways, whatever it is, or different types of vehicle. The stripe of proposals to increase speed on selected sections of one and the other kind of roads and for selected vehicles is very far from Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen and the Left and the other bourgeois wing. That should strengthen traffic morals, says Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen too. But there is, of course, a very individual concept of what is the right speed limit here and there. There is a great deal of reference to the long, even roads. I fully understand that Mr. Simpson... Kristian Pihl Lorentzen would like to release the BMW from full hammer and give it everything it can pull. But there is, of course, a very individual view of it. It is actually very good that there are very clear objective rules laid down by the police and the Road Directorate on what to do, rather than leaving it to politicians and their individual perceptions of what to do here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126190818	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126190820	I can hear you, sir. Henning Hyllested, from whom I was not on the run, because I love a good debate with Mr. Hyllested, that Enhedslisten isn't much for speed and would prefer to slow down as much as possible. There, of course, we in the Left believe that it is extremely important to strike the right balance between the considerations of mobility and propulsion on the one hand and road safety on the other. That balance can be high. If people have a perception that here we have a long, straight road where you can see the end, as Mr. Kim Christiansen said that they could then step a little too much on the accelerator, because it is sensible to drive stronger there, and it is simply a matter of bringing the speed limits into line with common sense. We believe that this will strengthen traffic standards, respect for speed limits and ultimately strengthen road safety. It is true that there are a number of things we adjust. The other day we discussed the proposal to increase the speed of trailers and caravans on motorways and highways, because that is sensible and we also have plans for 100 km/h. on motorway roads. We must also bear in mind that lorries must be able to monitor urban traffic. So these proposals are all under the heading "Far with reason," and I am sure that will ultimately strengthen road safety.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126190935	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126190939	Can this mobility and propulsion, as Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen always talks about compared to the drivers, isn't he bought too expensive simply? Can we not put the very good road safety work at risk, which has been developing for a number of years in this country, and where we have set new targets by 2020 in the Road Safety Commission? Can't it just get too expensive? Is Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen is of the opinion that it is unlimited, how much speed can be increased by, I had almost said, or how many vehicles can be increased by speed limits? It can tip over at some point. It never goes the other way. I have not yet heard a proposal to lower speed limits around. Neither has Enhedslisten proposed that. But it always goes that way, up with speed, up with speed, despite its serious consequences. After all, it's something you know.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126191034	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126191035	Now it's sounding at Mr. Knox. Henning Hylllested, as if we are making a dramatic increase in speed limits. These are, in fact, quite small adjustments in the sensible direction that we are making here. And there we are convinced that the limits we advocate are in exactly the right balance, and we are certainly not trying to put road safety at risk. That is also why, among other things, there is a need for the European Parliament to be involved in this process. in connection with this at 90 km/h. On the road, some compensatory and safety measures may be needed in some places. So don't paint such a picture that now there is just free speed in Denmark. By the way, when we raised the speed of motorways to 130 km/h, the doomsday trombones really blew up, but the reality is that road safety actually improved when it was implemented.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126191121	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line, and that is the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mr. Henning Hylllested. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126191137	Thank you. It may not surprise anyone that we think this is an extremely bad resolution, and I have said this very, very many times from this platform to the very, very many proposals that have come from the right, to increase the speed limit on all types of roads, however, not yet for all types of vehicles, but it will come; it showed the debate on Tempo 100 caravans. This happens despite the fact that it is known that higher speeds lead to more serious accidents with more dead and serious injuries. We know, as the previous rapporteur also pointed out, that speed at around 50%. of the cases are the main cause of all fatal accidents in traffic. I can understand from the debates we have had for a long time that this flow flow has gradually become a kind of mantra and that it means everything to road safety. After all, in connection with the Tempo 100 Caravans and Trailers Bill, we saw that that argument also played a huge part, despite the fact that I would venture to say that this was the only thing that was not guaranteed by giving even more drivers the opportunity to pull out into lane two on the motorways. I think that this motion for a resolution fits in extremely badly and is out of line with the draft law, L 84, on Tempo 100 caravans, trailers and so on. One can say that the only sympathetic thing that was in Bill L 84, was that you gave Tempo 100 caravans and that kind of permission to increase speed from 70 km/h. 80 km/h, because then they got into sync, you might say, with the other traffic on these famous highways by just having to drive 80 km/h. If you raise the speed limit to 90 km/h. And these caravans are still away driving 80 km/h, we're in trouble again. So that flow thing is the kind of thing you pull up, but you're not consistent. This, of course, also ends up with the fact that the speed of some vehicles is increased by one or two times, and that the speed of all vehicles is increased up to 100 km/h for trucks, buses and caravans. Or at 110 km/h, there will be a proposal for that at some point. I'm not saying that there's a current plan on this, but I'm gonna have a good time if it doesn't come. Let's talk about it in a couple of years. In any case, this motion for a resolution does not fit in very well. It does not provide any flow; on the contrary, it maintains that we still have two speed limits on the famous roads. Surely this cannot be in the interests of road safety. You could also imagine going the other way. I know that it is completely outside the thinking of the proposers and, for that matter, of the bourgeois side, but one could imagine that, and that is what has been taken into account in the way that we keep the speed limits we have. They have given rise to a great dive in the number of accidents involving seriously injured and dead. We have developed a very good road safety in this country. The speed of e.g. 80 km/h. In fact, as the article in the Jyllands-Posten, which is widely quoted here, says, there is a traffic scientist who points out that there are two things: the psychological factor and the control that can keep pace with. And that's kind of what you've started by sending these many new photo cars on the street. I know that the Danish People's Party and for that matter the Left also hates the photocars. It's cash machines. That is a pity, because they have actually proved successful. The speed is falling and, above all, it falls on the roads, which are the most dangerous roads. But now I understand that there will be a reduction in the effort on photocars. At any rate, we want to remove the targets that make the police no longer have to worry about sending photocars on the street, and they also have a lot of other things to do and get up and come down here. So in the coming year, or two or longer, we can expect a lower speed control with ATK, that is, with the photocars. That is a pity, because they are just right to say: let us stay at the 80 km/h with which we have good results. And then we get the flow at 80 km/h. for the 90 km/h. So we think this is an incredibly bad proposal and, of course, intend to vote again against the proposal to increase the speed limit.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126191651	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126191655	Sir. Henning Hyllested said that speed was involved in about half of all traffic accidents. I just want to know if Mr. Keating's gonna be okay. Henning Hyllested cannot confirm that speed is involved in 100 per cent. of all road accidents.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126191708	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126191709	I think I got added that that was, what to say, the main reason between 40-50 per cent and 50 per cent. of the fatal accidents. So that's the exact number.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126191719	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov? He's gonna drop out. Then we thank the rapporteur and move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Villum Christensen of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126191727	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance has nothing to object to, that we are trying to find a model for how we can raise the general speed limit to 90 km/h. on the roads. It is, of course, entirely dependent on how we define the concept, it goes without saying. Something may suggest that there is not always a link between increasing speed and an increasing number of accidents. After all, traffic safety is also about how uniform a flow is, excuse the expression, in other words how to get rid of traffic, and everyone knows that it is often overtakes that give the dangerous situations in practice. The comments on the motion for a resolution refer to some of the articles by Jyllands-Posten on the matter, but with all due respect for this excellent newspaper, we should probably also consult the official accident statistics split on precisely the types of road and the many local conditions, which are most often crucial. I therefore agree with the Minister that we should look at this experimental report and then find a pragmatic solution to this question. And the goal and aim is complete, as the Danish People's Party has wanted, namely that where it gives common sense, we should of course also be able to raise the limit to the 90 km/h.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126191901	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and go to the rapporteur of the alternative, and that is Mr Beazley. Nikolai Amstrup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126191909	Thank you very much. As we read the proposal, it goes on to set the general speed limit on roads up to 90 km/h. Now, in the debate in the House, I understand that there is a little uncertainty about what is really at stake and which roads it is about. As I have said from the platform here in connection with another debate, in the alternative, we are not directly in favour of raising speed limits, nor are we in this case, but we are not in favour of lower speeds just for the sake of lower speeds. We have security as our first priority. It is clear that if there are studies showing that it can actually improve road safety on certain lines and with proper and sensible action that you sign up to 90 km/h, then we are also interested in it. We are happy to listen to the Safe Transport Council, and it has also been referred to, but I do not read the article referred to in exactly the same way. In fact, I also see that there may be some advantages to it on a certain type of line, and we would very much like to look at that. But not surprisingly, as we read the proposal and as we think it is before us, we cannot vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126192037	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and go to the rapporteur of the Radical Left, and that is Mr Beyer de Ryke. Andreas Steenberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126192046	In the Radical Left we think it might be a good idea to speed up to 90 km/h. On a number of roads, highways, the roads which, when you look at a crash map, you know as these red, large, thick roads, if you make the investments that you need to make. When you look at the experiments that have been made, you can also see that there are additional protections, there are rumbles and extra signs. One of the things that has probably given an effect now we have to have the final report • is that you put up more signs and differentiate the speed, that you e.g.. puts it all the way down to 60 km/h when there's a cross, and then again up to 90 km/h. We think there might be reason to look at that, and we have already said so to the press. What we have taken on board in the debate that has followed is that there are also a great many roads where it will not make sense because there is a great deal of difference between the roads. What most of us see, when you say a highway, are these state roads, the old highways that connect the larger cities, but there are also a lot of highways, which are those that you can call field roads, which are some very, very small and narrow roads, and it is actually on those that are the vast majority of kilometres when you make it up to kilometres, and there we think it would be a bad idea to set the speed up to 90 km/h. So what today's debate has also been moving towards is that we may do away with it in the law, that there must be one speed on all roads, but that we can go in and differentiate speed so that it makes more sense for the driver. But it can actually also increase road safety because drivers then adhere to these different speeds because they think they make sense. So I really think it has been a very positive debate, and now there has been a lot of discussion about how we in the Danish Parliament often talk away from each other, but it seems that we can get the ends to meet. This may not be true of the wording of this motion for a resolution, but we may at least be able to continue working on this and see if we could make some differentiated speeds on the roads. So that is no to the motion for a resolution, but yes to the constructive dialogue that seems to be going on in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126192258	Thank you. One brief comment has been made, and it is from Mr Seligman. Henning Hylllested. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126192303	Yeah, I just had time to pull in, and that was in relation to Mr. Knox. Andreas Steenberg's comments on differentiated speeds and different types of road. But if we do that, is there not such a purely educational danger that, as a driver, you really will find it harder to understand what kind of road you are on? This certainly requires more signage, as the rapporteur also says. But is it not really preferable for there to be a uniform speed on the different types of road?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126192334	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126192335	This is, of course, a key issue, as Mr. Henning Hyllested is coming with us, and I think we, for example. should try to invite the Council for Safe Traffic in and discuss it. My own experience is that the fact that we put up more signs and differentiate speed makes great sense, because it also makes you as a driver aware of what speed is. The things I have read in relation to what is such of evidence from professional knowledge also show that it has made very good sense on motorways and the other places where differentiated speeds have been made. And the preliminary results of the experiments carried out on the roads seem to be positive as well. The very thing about the fact that there are many signs being put up and the speed being differentiated, is that you keep watching how you drive, instead of forgetting it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126192422	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126192424	I'm only saying this because it's my own experience. Because sometimes I actually drive a car, in my little Kia Picanto, and sometimes I get confused about what I actually have to drive on some of the roads in question. I mean, was it just a 90-mile country road? Because there may be a sign at the beginning, but once you have driven a half hour on such a road or how long you have been driving there, you may have difficulty remembering it, and there is perhaps the problem of saying that it may well be that I have a problem, but I do not think I am the only one who really has a speed limit on the road you are on. And it may be very clever that on the roads it is 80 km/h. It is certainly preferable for us.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126192504	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126192506	I think it's very funny to hear Enhedslisten and sir. Henning Hyllested such make advertising for a car brand, or whatever it is, it was elegant, and I think they're happy with that at Kia. In those places where you did these tests, it's usually 90 km/h, and then you put it down when there's a cross, and that's where we're going to try to see the final evaluation. But my experience is, at least, when I've been driving on one of those stretches, and I've done a lot of that, because it's the whole play between Viborg and Skive, where I come along a lot that it works well, and the experience with the police locally is also that it has worked very well. So I think we should continue to work on it, for example. also in urban areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126192548	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We move on to the SF's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126192600	For the SF, the proposal may not really be as crazy as it seems at first, because there will be routes where conditions make it possible to speed up a little, and there will be routes where it is best for cars to go a little slower. Both initiatives will, of course, lead to higher road safety, but we leave that to the police and the Road Directorate to assess. The speed kills and too many people get hurt in traffic. A generally higher speed limit is SF against.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126192639	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and turn to the Conservative rapporteur. It's sir. Rasmus Jarlov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126192658	We cannot support the motion for a resolution immediately. We are more in line with the government and with the Left, who say that we should try to land this with a report. We are in favour of getting higher speed limits around. I think we should be honest and say that there is, of course, a link between speed and road accidents. Well, everything else equal is that the higher the speed, the more accidents there might be. You have to be honest about that. No one should be told that higher speed in itself will lead to more road safety. On the other hand, it has to be said that there is always a balance here when we talk about speed limits, namely that it is good for citizens and for society that people can come forward more quickly, and then you have to weigh it up in terms of safety. There is our assessment that there are clearly roads around which you can drive faster. There are routes in Jutland where you drive completely straight ahead and where there is very, very good visibility. There you could probably drive at 120 km/h without there being any problems in it. I have heard that, I would just like to stress. Of course, that is not something I have done. But on the other hand there are also roads where it would be completely reckless to drive so fast, and probably would not more than 80 km/h. be safe. So we think it makes sense to look at specific lines. I would very much like to help raise the speed limits around for the benefit of citizens, but it is too far-reaching to say that it must be on all sections of the road which have been proposed in the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126192830	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and then we go to the rapporteur for the proposers. It's sir. Kim Christiansen from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126192840	Thank you. I would like to express my thanks for the debate and for the positive commitments that I actually expected, in that some of the parties present here, at least as an opposition, thought it was an insanely good idea. Apparently there are some officials who have brought a different opinion here lately, but we must then see if we can change it so that a political decision is still reached in this Chamber. At least I'll look forward to it. Thank you for the positive approach, not least from the Minister. Even the SF was positive, and I guess it was only Mr. Henning Hylllested, who was a little bit • or maybe very critical about this, but we did find out that Mr. Henning Hyllested, after all, drives a car. So to legalize it a little bit from Enhedslisten's side, we were also told that it was a small car. Then it's kind of in place. I don't want to dwell on this anymore. I look forward to having a good committee and thank you for the statements that have been made. I also hope, of course, that we can land it here in a report because there is nothing as such to prevent us from doing so here. That is what the Council of Transport Safety Ministers itself thinks, and I think it was Mr. Andreas Steenberg, who wanted to invite them in for a chat. You have said in the past that this can be quite common sense in the light of the mid-term review that has taken place. So thank you for the debate, and thank you for the commitment that we will find a way to get this done in the autumn, and of course I will look forward to that with the Danish drivers.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126193021	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Transport and Building. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126193039	The debate is open. We give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126193058	Thank you. The motion for a resolution we are debating now will require the government to introduce valid photo identification in addition to passports and driving licences. The reason is that the authors of the motion do not believe that it is reasonable for citizens who cannot obtain a driving licence, for example. because they have a visual disability, so always carry around on a passport. The proposers refer, inter alia, to: That legislation against terrorism and money laundering means that it has become increasingly necessary to be able to legitimise itself with image identification. Specifically, it is proposed that all citizens should be given the opportunity to obtain image identification similar to a driving licence and at the same price as a driving licence. Alternatively, the proposers want to be able to get a picture of their health card against a reasonable user fee. I would like to say, for the record, that neither the rules on passports, driving licences nor health cards fall within my area of responsibility. On the other hand, these are the areas of the Minister of Justice and Health and the Minister of the Elderly. So my comments on the resolution are based on the area of disability, which is my responsibility. That is why I am mainly concerned about whether those citizens with disabilities who cannot obtain a driving licence today have sufficient opportunities to have the necessary image ID. Let me start by saying that we in the government, like the proposers, believe that it should be easy to acquire and use image ID for all citizens. We also believe that the price should be reasonable. That's how far we agree. But in the government, we simply do not agree with the proposers that, for example, we do not agree with them. citizens with a visual impairment must have a special form of identification. It would seem to me to be an unfortunate slippery path with such a parallel arrangement for some citizens. When the government disagrees with the proposers on this point, it is partly because it is already possible for all Danish citizens with a CPR number to get a picture ID, namely a passport. As a citizen with a visual disability, therefore, like any other citizen, we have the opportunity to get image ID that can be used in all the situations referred to in the resolution. So a citizen with a visual disability is therefore neither better nor worse off than other citizens with regard to the possibility of obtaining passports. I therefore understand the motion for a resolution that the view is that a passport is impractical to carry and that it is also more expensive to obtain than a driving licence. These, of course, are also arguments that we in the government have had in our deliberations on this motion for a resolution. I fully agree that the format of the passport as such is greater than a driving licence, but I also have to say that I do not think we should have a special form of legitimacy because the proposers believe that a passport is impractical. The proposers then also mention a picture on the health card as an option. As I mentioned at the outset, it is not my area of responsibility, but the Minister for Health and the Elderly has stated that the purpose of the health card is to document the right to benefits under the Health Act, and therefore the health card should not be regarded as an identification card. If the health card is designed as an identification card with an image, it goes without saying that there are additional costs involved. It will be much more expensive to produce than it is today, when there is no picture of it. So we in the government do not believe that a proposal for a picture on the health card is appropriate at this stage. However, we would like to show our sensitivity in examining whether there is another way. And another general possibility actually exists in the area of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of the Elderly today. In this context, I would like to draw attention to what is called the alcohol card. It is a map which citizens over the age of 16 already have the opportunity to acquire. It is a map aimed at enabling young people to legitimise themselves in connection with the purchase of alcohol and tobacco, and it contains the name, picture and date of birth. The card today may not cost more than 150 kroner. However, the use of the alcohol card as a general picture ID will then require some adjustments to be made. Some more detailed studies will have to be carried out on what exactly is needed, because it is one of the things that needs to be done. includes the discussion that the card must be printed on the CPR number, but also other adjustments in relation to the purpose of the card and the scope of the person concerned, and the legal basis must then be examined. Then it is also the government's position that the issue of such an identification card should be made with full user funding, and the bill will then, if necessary, in view of the need to do the closer investigations here, first be made in the 2016-17 Assembly. But let us now see if, after an overall assessment, the map is suitable for the purpose. So we will be prepared to go in and look at this in order to find a general solution that can be used by everyone and as needed. So, overall, it is the view of the government that this parallel arrangement for individual sections of the population, as presented in the motion for a resolution, and as I see it as, will only have a separate meaning for a very small group of citizens, namely those citizens who cannot and do not wish to obtain a driving licence and who do not have a passport either. Of course, it should also be remembered here that it is not only citizens with, for example, citizens with. a visual impairment that sometimes needs a passport as identification. This is also true of the Danes who, for one reason or another, have chosen not to have a driving licence. So let me stress that it is the most important thing for the government that all sections of the population have access to the same ID under the same conditions, and that is what they already have today through the passport. At the same time, however, I would like to make it clear that we will be looking at whether an additional means of legitimation, open to all, can be provided. However, as the resolution is in its present form today, we cannot support it but we have the second indication to find a solution to what is actually being asked.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126193731	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Trine Torp. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126193735	Thank you. I am pleased to hear that the Minister is open to examining the possibilities. I would just like to quote what the motion for a resolution actually says, because all we are proposing is that we should be able to obtain valid photo identification in addition to passports and driving licences. And so it is true that we have written among other things. for the benefit of citizens with a visual disability. So it can be said that what is really in the proposal is only here to investigate alternative possibilities for image legitimacy. And there I would like to ask the Minister: with regard to the proposal put forward here, on the alcohol card, is that safe enough and valid enough so that it can be used in situations where we are missing today? It may be in connection with obtaining a mobile phone; it may be in connection with borrowing a bank or signing a mandate; it may be in connection with having to pick up a package at a post office • all the situations where, if we do not introduce it here, you will have to have a passport.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126193849	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126193851	I am in favour of the authors of the motion for a resolution describing different situations in which it is estimated that in different places where you are staying you may be asked to show some picture ID. But it is also just important to say that, as far as I have been able to look into myself until today, it is not a firm legal requirement that you should use image ID, for example. in connection with picking up a package at the post office or in the mail delivery. It may be and I believe that the proposers are right in saying that there are places that ask to see image ID, but I am aware that this is not a firm legislative practice. So the point of saying that there is a legislative need, that you simply have to have image ID, is not something that actually applies.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126193942	Mrs. Trine Torp, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126193943	But is it so true that, as an elderly citizen, for example, you have to be a citizen of the European Union? if you are resident at Bornholm and have to travel to Rigshospitalet in order to receive necessary treatment and may not intend to reclaim your passport, will need to be photo-legitimize yourself?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126194000	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126194000-2	It is true that an ID control has now been introduced on the basis of Sweden's situation, and that is why there is a separate issue now and here on Bornholm. This has been achieved by actually issuing a moped driving licence, and of course you can draw a little bit on your shoulders and smile on your shoulders, but I think it is a sensible way of dealing with a problem where there are citizens who do not want to renew their passports. However, as I said, I do see a possible way to find out whether the existing system on the alcohol card can be extended, so that we there meet the needs that are also for citizens at Bornholm at this time.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126194045	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. We thank the Minister. Then we start with the rapporteur's line, and the first one is from the Socialists, and that is Mr. Magnus Heunicke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126194103	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking the authors of the SF. There is no doubt that this is a specific issue. In my preparation for this speech, I have been in dialogue with Danske Handicaporganisations, which in any case clearly see this as a problem. I also think that the debate with the Minister before about the children's problem, in which one has been found, has to be said, temporary solution to granting a moped driving licence to pensioners, showed that, after all, this cannot be the very good solution, which is really long-term safe and dignified and in order. It's okay that a solution has been found, but it might show very well that there's actually a good idea to have this looked into. But then I must turn the rose to the Minister. We fight so often in the Parliamentary Chamber, but here you open a door and say that today there is in fact a card that is primarily used if you want to buy alcohol or tobacco and where it must be ensured that you are above the age limit there, by showing it card. With some small changes one could actually use this card as a kind of ID card. I understand that I must say that today it is not possible to say exactly what it will cost and what it will mean practically and economically. A study of this must then be started. We support this, and we must then say to the proposers that they have got it out of this. That is surely the whole point, namely to find a practical solution to it. So with those words, I would say that we warmly support the intentions, and if we find a solution, I think that is very good. With regard to the specific proposal, we will have to wait in committee for what the Minister will find. At the moment we will find it difficult to vote in favour of the specific proposal as it stands here, but if we in the committee agree to do that work in the ministry, then I think we will have to say that at least the purpose has been achieved.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126194307	Thank you. Just a brief comment from Mrs Trine Torp. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126194311	I would just like to hear in detail what the rapporteur is concerned about the proposal that we have put forward, as it says in concrete terms, namely that the necessary legislative proposals must be made and the necessary changes made to the administrative regulations.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126194333	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126194334	It is simply because we do not know exactly what it will mean. We heard a minister who was open and who said that there is something you can work with here, but we did not get an answer as to what it will cost, what will be of difficulty and whether it will be possible to do so. In his comments to the Minister himself, the rapporteur mentioned whether it can be used immediately or whether some changes should be made as to whether there should be cpr numbers on and how and how. And before we impose a task on a government, it is important for us Socialists that we know the economy in it and that we know whether it is practically possible to do so. It may be worded just as tightly in the proposal... what we want is for the government to take up this matter, to work with it purposefully and to try to find solutions in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126194421	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126194422	Several questions have been asked in the past, both from the Minister's own party, from the Danish People's Party and from my own party, about what this is actually going to cost. The highest bid I've ever seen is somewhere between 80 and 100 kroner. So I just wanna hear, if it's cost-neutral for the state, but this 80-100 kr. in order to get the card may be user-funded, will the Social Democrats be in favour of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126194454	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126194455	Well, that sounds perfectly reasonable and within the limits of opportunity, there is no doubt about that. But what I am saying here should not be taken so that we have settled on it. In Denmark in the past we have had various new systems that have flourished and that, it must be said, were not really thought through from the beginning. So let's do this right. We share the intention, we think it's sensible, and we also commend you who have taken this up, so let's do it right. There is already an outlined solution, so let us try to see if it cannot satisfy all parties. Then we are actually quite satisfied and have solved a specific problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126194532	Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and then we go to the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, Mrs Karina Adsbøl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126194545	Thank you. The motion for a resolution deals, as we have also heard before, with requiring the government to submit the necessary legislative proposals by 1 June 2016 and to make the necessary changes to administrative regulations in order to ensure the possibility of obtaining valid photo ID in addition to passports and driving licences, among others. for the benefit of citizens with a visual disability. But there are also, as we have heard before, some other challenges in relation to showing image ID. We have seen it on Bornholm, but the Minister then said that some solutions had been found there. In the Danish People's Party we are positive about working further on how we can find solutions so that we can meet the wishes of the users. This is among other things. Danske Handicaporganisationer, who has a wish for this. The system that makes image ID is already in place today, so it is not the case that you have to put a new system together, and therefore it is not certain that it will be as expensive as assumed. Sometimes I find it a little sad that good proposals are being shot down with that it is too costly. But when these systems are now in place, you can imagine that you could find some good solutions for this. I know that there are several private companies that have agreements with municipalities, including libraries, and it could be that we should provide the Minister with information about those companies, also in relation to what they can offer, for example. their system of self-service software, including for passports, driving licences, young IDs and driver cards, photo equipment for photos, as well as finger scanners, signature plates, printers, etc. Those things are familiar to me, something that exists today. So, if we can find some good solutions, even during the committee reading... it may be that we can land a report or other... then we are at least in the Danish People's Party prepared for it. We also have earlier in connection with the yellow health insurance card which had to be changed, when at that time we had to have a blue health insurance card • just asked what it would cost to get photo ID on our health insurance card. Perhaps it was also a solution that could be found if you could do it free of charge or if you could, as you can today, buy something you want. So it will be voluntary, but of course for the benefit of a great many citizens who want some kind of identification in addition to passports and driving licences.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126194838	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and go to the rapporteur of the Left. And this is sir. Jan E. Jørgensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126194849	Thank you. The Left, when we read the motion for a resolution, had the expectation that it was about the situation on Bornholm, which is highly topical, because, as it is today, Bornholmers cannot come to the rest of Denmark without having a valid image ID. And apparently there are a lot of Bornholmers who do not have a driver's license or passport. I do not know whether this is a separate problem on Bornholm, but at least it has been clarified now that it is therefore a problem on Bornholm that many people have difficulty identifying themselves when going from Bornholm to the rest of Denmark. So I actually thought that was the reason for the SF's motion for a resolution, but I understand that this is an old travert who has been on the field before. When the Left intends to vote against the resolution itself, it is not because we do not think there is a need to find some kind of image ID. Then it is, among other things, as previous speakers have also said, because we would like to find out exactly what it is that needs to be done, but also because we believe that there is a solution that is easier than what the SF points out. We do not think it will be necessary to make legislative changes because we already have a map, namely in the Ministry of Health, which in this way I will assess the relatively few changes that will be used as image ID, also for people who have rounded both 16 and 18 years of age and who would like to use it for something other than buying alcohol, thus saying nothing bad about it so that the card could be used wider. So I hope that the SF is happy today, because it is a response to the very idea behind the motion for a resolution, namely to ensure that you can identify with a picture without having a passport or driving licence. On the other hand, it is not the case that we are simply saying 'yes' to the motion for a resolution. Because, as it is formulated in any case, it is proposed that we make changes to the legislation, etc., and that is probably not necessary at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126195058	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Trine Torp. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126195102	In SF we are pleased with the positive reception. I just have to wonder, because what is that in our wording, and what is the solution we in the SF point to, with which the Left disagrees? I quote again what it says in the motion for a resolution: "The Parliament instructs the government to submit the necessary legislative proposals by 1 June 2016 at the latest, which means that, if it is not necessary, it must of course make nothing, make the necessary changes in administrative regulations, and that means that if they are not necessary, they must of course also not be done, so as to ensure the possibility of obtaining valid photo credentials in addition to passports and driving licences,...'.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126195145	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126195147	I think we should look at the committee procedure if we cannot produce a sensible report.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126195152	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126195155	I look forward to that, but I did not really get an answer to my question. What is the solution that the rapporteur says we are pointing to, which the Left does not agree with?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126195210	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126195211	I have to admit that I cannot read the motion for a resolution as anything other than that the SF believes that it is necessary to make some legislative proposals and that it is necessary to make some changes to administrative regulations and it is then imposed on the government to do so. In other words, we need to put forward the legislative proposals that are necessary in order to introduce image identification. I cannot read the motion for a resolution in any other way, and perhaps I think it is such a kind of hindsight to read it. I guess you're not making a motion for a resolution to make a bill if you don't think it's necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126195246	Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. I do not see any rapporteur from the Enhedslisten, so we go... Jan E. Jørgensen Excuse me, can I just make an addition?). Yeah, but short.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126195256	Thank you. That was very regrettable. I forgot to greet the Conservative People's Party, which asked me to say that they support the position of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126195304	Then we got it. I still don't see anyone from the Enhedslisten, so we move on to the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Villum Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126195315	Thank you. In the absence of our rapporteur in this area, I should like to thank the SF for presenting this resolution which is relevant to a great many people who do not have a driving licence. In the Liberal Alliance, we share the view that if you do not have a driving licence, you must carry a passport to show a valid photo ID. SF envisages different options for a new ID card, but we think that it might be most obvious to look at the solutions that already exist today. Of course, we think we should have looked at this alcohol card, as it has now been called, to see if there is no possibility here. It is quite obvious to try to extend this system, which already exists, and therefore not to go into a whole new system, because it is very important that we make use of what we can already do rather than build up such large systems, because we know that things almost always go wrong. Let's take advantage of what we already have. I think you can land a story that meets SF's wishes without having to shoot gray sparrows with guns.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126195440	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Trine Torp. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126195444	I would just like to say that I actually fully agree that we should not invent new systems, and the fewer the cards the citizens have to carry, the better. That is why there are many options to develop what we already have, so I fully agree with that. What I just want to make sure is: is the Liberal Alliance also prepared for the solution that needs to be a map where we are absolutely sure that security is in order and that the map is valid in those places where you cannot get to image legitimacy without a passport and a driving licence today?
ParlaMint-DK_20160126195522	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126195523	I am absolutely convinced that there is also the Minister's answer, that this is what we would like to examine, namely that we must achieve a result within the existing systems which can satisfy the relevant requests made by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126195536	Mrs. Trine Torp. Apostates. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. Then we go to the Alternative's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Torsten Gejl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126195548	Thank you. And thank you to the SF for presenting this motion for a resolution. I think it's pretty good. We experience more and more often that photo ID is required in situations where you cannot be expected to carry your passport. It may be if you have to take a loan from the bank or buy a cell phone. Here someone like me uses my driver's license, but we have to admit that there are a lot of people who don't. They may be people who do not want to take one, but they may also be people who cannot get a driving licence. It can, for example, be done. be people with a disability such as: epilepsy or a visual impairment which, because of their particular needs, cannot obtain a driving licence. That is also why we are contacted by disability organisations, who incredibly want their members to be equated with other Danes. But the people with special needs are currently forced to carry their passports on several occasions. The same is true of ordinary Danes who go from Bornholm to Denmark when the trip goes via Sweden. We do not think this is appropriate use of a passport. A passport is not something that we should demand that people have on them like this every day. This is what the SF is trying to counter with this motion for a resolution, which is about introducing a different type of image ID. We hear that this scheme will be extremely expensive, but I do not think it takes so much creative sense to develop a solution. It may be solved by making it possible to put a photo on some of the cards that already exist. The medical certificate is used for other than health purposes. It's used in the bank. It's used when you buy a cell phone. There you might put a photo on or put a photo on some of them. It may also be that you could make a driving licence without a category, so that you have your driving licence, you are not allowed to drive a car, but can use the card to identify yourself with. You can also make it as an option so that we do not all need a picture of, for example. Our health insurance card, but it's an option, a flybone you can put in a small square. So we think that the SF is opening up to solve this challenge in a good way, and we support the proposal, but we would like it to be resolved in a broadly memorable way. And I would say that if the alcohol card can do what it should be able to do and you can make an alcohol card that can do it, that is to say you can use it as a proper picture ID down at the bank and in all the other situations that SF would like to solve here, then I think it is an exciting suggestion, also because it is going to, and it seems reasonably cheap. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126195819	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Then we go to the radical rapporteur, and that is Mr. Andreas Steenberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126195830	In connection with my work as transport rapporteur, I have had very many meetings with Danish Handicap organisations, who are very concerned that disabled people can easily and without help get on a train and then go wherever they want. The dignity that lies in a desire to be able to do as much as possible, despite its disability, the same as everyone else in society and could do something even without having to have help and in the desire to be self-reliant, I have great respect for. I think that is one of the points in this motion for a resolution. Especially people with a visual disability feel that because they have that disability, they have to do something different than everyone else in society. There are not so many rapporteurs who have mentioned this, but it is also a question, to put it bluntly, of a passport being more expensive to acquire and having to be renewed more often than a driving licence, such as the United Kingdom. the visually impaired by nature do not have because they are not allowed to drive. But it can also be all sorts of other groups in society. Now many have mentioned Bornholm, where you have to have some kind of ID to travel to your capital because Sweden has introduced the border controls they have. It may also be people who are too young or too old to have a driving licence or for other reasons have chosen not to have a driving licence. So they must have a passport which is more expensive and which for many is cross-border to have to take in order to go to the bank or buy a mobile subscription. I must admit that I have never heard of this alcohol card that the Minister has now brought into play, but I think it sounds like a good solution. Then you don't have to make a whole new map and a whole new system, but then you can use a system that is already there. That seems to me to be a very pragmatic and sensible solution. What we have also discussed in the radical group is IT security in this. I remember a few years ago I was the rapporteur on a resolution which was a great deal about protecting people from identity theft. For example: a person could, on the basis of a social security number alone, go down and buy a mobile phone in the name of another person, mostly to harass that person. So I would also recommend that Parliament's parties consider this when we sit on the committee and discuss it here. Maybe we can invite, I think it's called the Data Safety Council or something like that, to tell you that if we get this alcohol card in a new version, which might have to be called something else, because it's not about alcohol, whether it's safe, so that we don't experience any more examples of some people harassing others by stealing their identity in a very easy way. I think we should bring that too. However, thanks to the SF for bringing it up and also thanks to the Minister and the Ministry for a creative proposal that we certainly had not thought of, but which sounds like a good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126200150	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We shall now turn to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is Mrs Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126200157	Thank you for the debate and for the positive reception. I am pleased that there is support for the intention behind the proposal and a willingness to work in concrete terms to find a solution. In the SF we are accommodating to any solution that can meet the needs of image IDs that different citizens have. The only requirement must be that the ID card has the necessary security, and thus, as was also mentioned by the rapporteur of the Radicals, the necessary IT security. The requirement should also be that it should be valid so that it is accepted where no other types of identification than passports and driving licences are accepted today. Danish legislation must, of course, be adapted to the development of society. That is why it is also time for us to facilitate the ability of Danish citizens to acquire cheap image ID, as is the case in the countries we are surrounded by. I know that only Denmark and Greece do not have such a general citizen ID card. As a result of stricter legislation against terrorism and money laundering, image identification has become increasingly necessary in recent years. This is so different in situations such as the creation of bank accounts, the purchase of mobile phones, the collection of parcel mail, the purchase of travel cards and the membership of a fund board. The vast majority of citizens solve this problem by showing a valid driver's license or passport. For some citizens, for example. blind, highly visually impaired and epileptics, this is not possible as they cannot obtain a driving licence because of their disability. That is why Danske Handicaporganisations have been calling for the possibility of obtaining cheap image ID for a long time. In the SF we have no special formal requirements. But the problem should be, for example. could be solved by introducing the possibility of getting a picture on the health card, by collecting more cards in a citizen ID, by changing some cards that are already in place. And if it is too expensive a solution, there is also the possibility that you can order photo ID in the banks as you can in Sweden. However, we doubt that this would be such an expense, as technology already exists, and as there are already concession agreements between the companies providing the card solutions and the municipalities issuing passports, driving licences, driving licences for young people and driving licences for taxi drivers. The equipment already exists, and there is software for processing and self-service with NemID, so that citizens can fill everything before they show up at citizen service. This technology could easily be extended to other types of cards, and perhaps in the long term more information could be obtained on a map such as the one we are discussing here. blood type and medicine information. The goal for us is just to start this process and that identification must be cheap and have a long durability, for example, corresponding to a driver's license's validity period. Since the SF made the proposal for the first time, we have learned that many citizens are calling for cheap image ID. It may be homeless people who are required to be legitimised when they have to vote, withdraw money from the bank or simply create an account so that they can have money transferred. It may be Danish citizens who, in connection with their work, visits or treatment at the Rigshospitalet, have to pass through Swedish territory, where due to the carrier's responsibility they now have to legitimise themselves. The other day I was contacted by Jytte, who is in the mid-1970s. She wrote me because she was excited about our proposal. She doesn't have a passport or a driver's license and doesn't need it either. In several situations, she has experienced that it is almost mandatory to have an image ID, which is why she has consulted about the possibilities offered by the citizens' service and received the message that she could get a moped driving licence. And as she writes: I am in the mid-1970s, ha, ha. So she thought it was a little mysterious that it was necessary. I am pleased that the SF's proposal is now an opportunity for the government and the parliamentary parties to back up the need to find a solution, so it will be just a little easier for citizens with disabilities, homeless people and children to be Danes. That is why we call on the government and Parliament to introduce as soon as possible a cheap picture ID in some form, and I look forward to the further examination of the committee. And I would also like to welcome the Enhedslisten and say that they think it is an incredibly good proposal that we have put forward in the SF and that they support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126200651	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and the Internal Market. And if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160126200708	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 27 January 2016, at 3 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
