ParlaMint-DK_20161118100004	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118100013	The debate is open, and that is first Mr President. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118100042	First of all, we really do think it is a pity that we have to re-examine a legislative proposal to change fund taxation. The last time it had to be changed, or at least we had a discussion about it, it was because the government lacked money and they had to be used in the Finance Act for various of the tax cuts that were needed for the ends to reach together. In order to make a financial agreement last year, some money had to be found by reducing the conditions under which the non-profit-making funds were distributed. We did not really have much to do with that and would have liked it not to have happened. The government would do that anyway. Now we are discussing another change in fund taxation, where it is not about non-profit funds, but other funds. This time it has to be changed because of an EU judgment, and then the other group of funds suffers from those that the government had already harassed with its previous financial agreement. We are generally in favour of strengthening and benefiting from the fact that companies are owned and operated through a fund. We have good experience of this in Denmark, and it maintains jobs here, and we will continue to pursue this objective in our political work. There isn't much to do in relation to the law here having to be changed. An EU judgment has been given against Austria, which had similar rules to those applied in Denmark until now, where it is therefore not possible to limit the right to deduct funds with tax-free distributions to distributions to Danish taxpayers. If you allow it to continue as it is now, then you will open up a massive speculation in placing funds in Denmark that can then pay dividends to foreign owners without taxation, and that is of course no good. So the law has to be changed. We cannot but support the fact that it has to be adjusted here. Then comes the next question that follows in the tail of this, namely that it will give some more money in the treasury when you make these changes. The government's purpose, we understand, is not really to increase taxation. This time there should not be money coming from here to make some other tax cuts to various wealthy groups, as the government did in last year's Finance Act. Now the money must be returned to the citizens. But the question is whether this is the right way the government has found. There we have to say that the consultation answers are critical on various points. Criticism is raised by various actors. Only yesterday we had an appearance in the Tax Committee from the merchants' investment fund, which can see that their opportunities to support local merchants around Denmark, also in the more sparsely populated areas, are simply becoming inferior. We will use the work of the committee and the examination of the legislative proposal here in general to look at the return of the proceeds, in other words the money provided by the increased fund tax and whether it is appropriate, whether it can be made better. After all, we can also see that the tax minister is in the process of formulating amendments. Whether there is any further need for us as a society to get the best possible way out of this need that has come to us to amend the fund tax law, we must then discuss it in the Committee on Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118100352	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118100401	This is, after all, a legislative proposal which is the result of a change in EU law. Another legislative proposal is tempted to say, because it is quite remarkable, because Denmark has not given up sovereignty in the field of taxation. Yet the European Union is deciding and interfering in this area. The excuse this time is the free movement of capital, which is the excuse used to determine Danish tax policy, and we in the Danish People's Party think this is quite unheard of. The draft law is specifically about adapting the fund tax to EU law due to a judgment that was in Austria in 2015. In brief, the Austrian case concerned the deduction of fund distributions, but it was dependent on the beneficiary's tax liability in Austria. It is basically the same rules that we have in Denmark, and according to the bill, we have to change the rules. From now on, it will be the case that non-profit-making distributions will no longer be deducted when the recipient is taxable in Denmark, and the tax minister writes in the bill that there will be so-called equality. That would then give a revenue of 75 million. It must be said that, if we are finally to comply with the EU judgment, it is, after all, positive that we have it brought back so that people are kept indemnified for it. And that is what happens by reducing taxation for the recipients of the distribution. That should make me a little doubt, but it is written in the bill at least that people are not hit harder. But there is a lot of doubt about that, so I think it is worthwhile to have something more drilled in committee. On the whole, however, as I said, it is quite unheard of for the EU to interfere in Danish fiscal policy. This is not an area in which we have given sovereignty, so we think we should stick to it and say to the European Union that they should not interfere. And that's why we can't support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118100556	Thank you, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær. Then it's Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118100603	Thank you. And thank you for the floor. Today, the deduction of non-profit-making distributions by funds is dependent on the beneficiaries of the distributions being taxable in Denmark. The European Court of Justice delivered a judgment in 2015 which means that we have to change that state of law. That is why we have this bill today. Danish legislation must therefore be adjusted in this area so that we ensure that our rules do not conflict with EU rules on the free movement of capital. The Government is therefore proposing an adjustment of the legislation, which means that no deduction can be made for non-profit-making distributions to beneficiaries who are taxable for the distribution in Denmark. At the same time, it is ensured that funds covered by the Fund Tax Act and beneficiaries of non-profit-making distributions, which are taxable from the distribution in Denmark, are not put at a disadvantage as a whole than they are today, by introducing a deduction of the amount to be taxed, which must be included in it. The proposal will therefore create equality in relation to non-profit-making distributions to beneficiaries who are taxable of the distribution in Denmark and in relation to other countries. Furthermore, I think it is worth noting that the government has already proclaimed that they will address a large part of the concerns raised during the consultation of the proposal. Finally, I would like to mention that the proposal entails an additional revenue which is proposed to be recovered by reducing the taxation of the recipients of the distribution. We in the Left think that makes sense. The Left, of course, supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118100734	Thank you. Sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118100752	It should not be a secret that we on the Enhedslisten have long had a very critical look at the tax rules for funds. In short, we believe that all the many tax advantages associated with the construction of the fund should be thoroughly cleared up. In this case, with this bill, we are dealing with the distribution of funds for non-useful purposes. It is, for example, when funds distribute money to a very small group, for example. Foundation founder's family or the like. In other words, when we have such a narrow circle of people to be distributed to, it is not of public interest. Of course, we regard such funds even more critically than distributions from funds which, after all, are non-profit-making. The situation as it stands today is that when a Qualifying Fund distributes money for the sole purpose of securing, for example: certain family members an income, after all, income tax must be paid on the recipient as on all other gifts and income. And only if that happens can the fund deduct the distribution from tax. The way things are done now, according to the government, is contrary to EU law, because it is apparent from the draft law that an EU judgment made deductions for non-profit-making distributions to Austrians who were taxable in Austria because it was not necessary to distinguish whether the distribution was made to a person liable for tax in Austria or whether it was a distribution to a person who was not liable for tax in Austria. After all, this is interference by the European Union in national legislation in an area of taxation, where the European Union does not have competence. It was therefore the demand for the free movement of capital, which this time was used by the European Union and which, according to EU law, was violated because only when the fund was distributed to Austrians who paid tax in Austria could the non-profit-making distributions be deducted. As a starting point, therefore, on the part of the Enhedslisten, we do not think that this is an issue in which the European Union should interfere, and it is the case that we do not automatically accept legislative proposals, which are a consequence of what the European Union might think, but we go in and look in concrete terms at what the legislative proposal means. In relation to the specific model proposed, we can see that the draft law is trying to circumvent the problem and ensure a new model, which must be revenue-neutral. We have then also seen in some consultation answers, among others. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear from the Financial Council that the draft law as a whole does not become revenue-neutral, but actually involves additional taxation with the structure proposed. I have to say that, since we are working on the basis of a practice that we are in favour of the least improvement and against the slightest deterioration, we will find it difficult to take a negative approach to a proposal that de facto pulls an additional proceeds from funds, even if the tax is relaxed for the beneficiary of the distribution, because the tax benefits for funds are today far too light. So if this is a tightening as it looks, it definitely pulls in the positive direction. Overall, however, we are a little confused on a higher level. Is it the Ministry's figures that are correct or does the Finance Council, for example? Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal. So immediately, however, the position of the Enhedslisten here at first reading will be that we are in favour of the legislative proposal because of the specific content of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118101145	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118101153	Thank you. With L 27, the government will remove the right of deduction for non-profit-making funds. The background is an adaptation to EU law. The adjustment leads to equality between beneficiaries who are taxable in Denmark and non-taxable in Denmark. The government does not want to tax non-profit-making funds harder, but only to adapt Danish legislation to EU legislation. Therefore, the government introduces a deduction for recipients of distribution from non-profit-making funds. The Ministry of Taxation has tried to create a model which, overall, is revenue-neutral. The beneficiaries will therefore be taxed in the future by 80%. the distribution, as opposed to today, when the entire distribution is taxed. However, this raises the problem that beneficiaries who have a negative taxable income will not benefit from the proposed tax advantage. This means that the compensation that is being made is asymmetrical, so that some will have a higher tax advantage than today, while other beneficiaries will not benefit at all. We are very critical of this. At the same time, a number of questions have been raised about the overall neutrality of the proposal. In Berlingske one could read the day before yesterday that, quote, the Ministry recognises at the same time that the new rules provide an increased revenue. It is absolutely crucial for us that this bill does not increase the taxation of non-profit-making funds. We would like this matter to be clarified in the work of the committee. In general, our final position on the legislative proposal depends on the work of the committee and any amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118101346	Thank you. Then it's mr. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118101353	Thank you. We have already had some good reviews of the elements of the bill, I think, so I will make some cuts instead. I am very much in line with the Social Democrat rapporteur who outlined the advantages and disadvantages of this. In the alternative, we are actually very much in favour of the structures of the funds, including operating within them. We would like to see a much greater transparency and we would also like to see more demands being made on funds, when not for public utility purposes, to devote the funds they now had to society to a greater extent than they are doing today. However, in relation to this bill, we see the greatest challenge as being that some of the non-profit-making beneficiaries who are going to benefit from these funds might actually get less than they do today. There was the example of the merchant in Waterside Denmark wisely. In other words, if there are places where a society finds it difficult to maintain elements that actually create cohesion and strengthen some good visual energies in society, but in fact cannot run around without support, then one should be able to see over a longer period of time that support could create a situation in which, for example, this merchant's existence could be maintained without support. Because otherwise it's a little artificial. In the eyes of the alternative, we must ensure in every possible way, even when it comes to green conversion, or whatever we want to support, that there is a future horizon that means that we must support these areas which we think are the best, because they are simply the best, also financially, without aid. So here we have to find out in committee whether anyone is not going to hold that hand. But I actually agree with the rapporteur of the Left that it seems that we are doing what we need to do here in order to protect ourselves from the disadvantages. So, in relation to the EU community, which imposes something on us: I agree with the Enhedslisten's rapporteur that we should not just blindly nod and say okay when there is a decree. But we have agreed to contribute to the community, and the change you want us to make at home is certainly not something that makes us steep. Conversely, I think it is a problem in general that when we get things to be implemented in Denmark that come from the European Community, it is a little too often that we look at where it is that we should give something to the Community. We are very, very sharp to say yes if we can get anything from this community. And this is one of those places where we're gonna have to change things. If we want there to be some bodies that apply to everyone in EU cooperation, then it is also okay when we have to go in and change things that make us feel safe in other situations that everyone has the same rules of the game. So we are very positive about the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118101649	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118101655	In the Radical Left, we are basically opposed to the Danish People's Party and the Enhedslisten in favour of common, solidarity rules in this area on the part of the European Union, and that is why we consider it quite natural that Denmark should continually correct and adapt, as all other countries do, in order to have common legislation in areas where it makes sense, because there are also cross-border problems. That is why we are in favour of the draft law. As several rapporteurs have mentioned, the Treasury has had to find the difficult balance between a simple model and a balanced model. We actually believe that it is very sensible as it does. But like other parties, we would also like to test some of the critical voices that have approached us. We will also follow this closely in committee, with positive signs.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118101754	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118101802	I'm sorry if I sound a little nasal, but like so many others, I've been hit by a little cold. The proposal here has, of course, been examined very well, so I would just like to strike down a few individual areas. Like the rapporteur of the DF and the rapporteur of the Enhedslisten, I think it is appropriate to express a criticism of the judgment which comes from Austria and which now affects us, because that is where the SF also seems to be moving into what is national competence, namely taxation. And there we have to find out, with the disagreements that are here in the Folketing, how we organise our tax legislation. So it is just to get the record on record that there we think we are going too far in relation to the EU to decide how we should regulate our legislation. I am sure that the Minister has tried to find the most gentle model in a matter in which he will have to correct it, but at the same time we have received both a hearing reply and a visit to the committee, which shows that for some it will have some major consequences. KFI Traders Fund, the merchants, has said: we are not doing this to favour a cousin or a sister; that is, it is not a fund where you have to distribute to family members; this is to support that we have a diversity in our retail trade, that it is not only the large chains, but that we can support the small merchants too; that is what we do and that is where we get hit. Of course, that is not the Minister's intention, but we have to make legislation that is the same for everyone. That is why I would just like to raise the slightly bigger question in this Chamber today about whether it is not time for us to look at the structures of the funds in the business sector. I believe that there is a huge difference between different non-profit-making funds. Well, we have fairly well defined what non-profit foundations are, but all the others can be very different. It can, for example, be done. be a rich family that makes a fund and that gets a lot out of the tax benefits that Enhedslisten's rapporteur also mentioned and that can distribute funds to family members. I think that we need to look at the fact that this is a completely different construction than, for example. the merchants who say: Well, we just want to give out some funds to help merchants around the country. So it is a little my call to the Minister, i.e. if we cannot look at it. SF has the same scepticism as Enhedslisten vis-à-vis certain parts of the funds that are in Denmark, with regard to the different structures that can be constructed and the tax advantages. At the same time, however, there are other funds which operate within the same set of rules, which have quite different considerations to take into account. And there we think from the SF we should have looked at whether we can't differentiate between them any more. So it was some kind of overarching commentary on this. The SF supports the bill, but with the remark that we think the area should be buried a little more.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118102131	Thank you. The Conservative rapporteur is not here, and then it is the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118102143	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking you for receiving the bill. It does not happen often that we go in and look at the basic rules on the taxation of our funds. In the last session, however, we reduced the special consolidation allowance based on the non-profit-making distributions of the funds. We did so in order to obtain part of the funding for a significant improvement in the conditions of generational change in business. I do not want to hide the fact that the government would have preferred us not to adjust the fund tax again this time by abolishing the deduction for non-profit-making distributions, but unfortunately we have to do so for the sake of EU law and the judgment that has fallen. At the same time, however, the Government intends to mitigate the effects by proposing a reversal model, in which the proceeds are, as far as possible, returned to those who today benefit from non-profit-making distributions. I think there was one of the rapporteurs who said up here from the platform that the other day in Berlingske it had said that it would generate additional revenue, and that is absolutely right. But now newspapers are not sources of justice, and the journalist in question had conveniently or not conveniently forgotten to write that this additional revenue is returned to the funds. This is, overall, a revenue-neutral proposal by the government, because we do not want to tax the funds more than is the case today. However, we are forced to change the rules as a result of the fact that the current rules are not in line with EU rules, as all the consultation parties, including those who criticise the proposal, as several of the rapporteurs have also mentioned, also acknowledge in their consultation answer: yes, the Danish rules are in breach of the EU rules that apply. So that's why we have to do something. As you know, the purpose of the draft law is to adapt the fund tax to EU law, in the sense that, today, non-profit-making distributions are only deducted if the recipient is taxable in Denmark, and that is discrimination against beneficiaries who are not taxable to Denmark. Of course, one might wonder why the differentiation between people who are taxable for Denmark and people who are not taxable is not possible, but that is not compatible with EU law and the judgment that has been passed some time ago. By abolishing the deduction, there is equal treatment in relation to distributions to beneficiaries who are not taxable in Denmark of the distribution. Since, as I have said, the aim is not to generate additional revenue, it is not important for the government to ensure that the proceeds of the deduction are returned as far as possible to those benefiting from the distributions. That is why we are proposing a reversal model whereby the beneficiaries of the non-profit-making distributions only account for 80%. of the distribution in their taxable income. The emphasis has thus been placed on the simple nature of the reverse model. At the same time, however, I am aware that the effective taxation of funds and beneficiaries will not be exactly as it is today in all situations. I shall be the first to regret this, but we must also recognise the need for a model that is both robust and manageable. It is not only in the interests of the state and the tax administration, but also in the interests of the foundations and Denmark. Then there have been a number of adjustments to the draft law on the basis of the hearing, and we will, as I believe, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Jesper Petersen raised a number of amendments. I would just like to mention two of them. Firstly, amendments will be tabled concerning the date of effect of the abolition of the deduction. The government has listened here to several of the consultation responses where it has been argued that the proposed date of impact could lead to arbitrary discrimination of funds, depending on how they have organised their practice for annual distributions. That is, of course, not the intention of the proposal. Secondly, amendments will be tabled to the effect that non-profit-making distributions to the subsidiaries of the funds will in future be tax-free from the subsidiary. This corresponds to the fact that the parent company's grant to a subsidiary under the applicable rules is, moreover, tax-free. I would like to sign up for the debate that has taken place, and of course I will take care to answer any questions that may be raised here today and in committee so that we can have a good and thorough examination of the proposal towards the second and third readings, but that is a proposal that we in the government are making, because it is our duty to ensure that the legislation is in line with EU law, and unfortunately that is not the case today.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118102641	Thank you, Minister. There is a question from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118102646	Thank you. It's just a quick question of how we're going to deal with today, but it's derived from the fact that the minister will be in favour of looking at how we define the fund structures in the legislation in relation to what I also said in my speech, that there may be different groupings that are being assembled in a way that we at least in the SF do not necessarily think is appropriate.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118102711	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118102712	I would, of course, always like to look at whether the legislation we have is good enough. So, in the field of the fund, a committee has been set up to look at how we are going to have more commercial funds, so what Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen is asking about goes a little further than that. However, there is a committee looking at how we will have more commercial funds, and if there is a desire for a more detailed examination by the Tax Committee of the various fund rules and to look at the issue raised by the SF, I would like to make myself available to take a political debate on it, but independently of the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118102751	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118102753	Thank you. It's always good to get smarter, but we might want to change some things too. But of course I am grateful that, as I hear from the Minister, we can have a technical review at some point, perhaps a less busy time than right now. But I will certainly try to formulate something for the Minister, and otherwise it may be tabled as a motion for a resolution in the House. But, as usual, I would like to thank you for your willingness to join the Committee on Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118102826	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118102829	I don't have much to add.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118102832	Thank you. Then no one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118102840	The debate is now open. Here you go, sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118102924	Thank you. The bill here translates among other things. Some of the agreement we reached in May of this year on a so-called legal certainty package II. In addition to the elements which form part of the bill here, it also contains proposals for shorter processing times in appeals cases; for a tax law council to be set up to help review the legislation on various points; for initiatives to provide more transparency and clearer framework for the proceedings in SKAT; and for the Parliamentary Ombudsman to be strengthened with a proper tax office. Each of these is a good step towards greater legal certainty in the field of taxation. After all, it is all intended to restore confidence in our tax administration. This is both about legal certainty and, to a large extent, about how effective it works and not constantly getting into new problems and scandals. It is dealt with in the second framework. So far, we are not so impressed with the government's efforts in this field. However, on the legislative proposal here, I would like to say that, among other things, what comes from legal certainty package II. is about reintroducing cost compensation to taxable companies and funds. And there is a proposal to postpone the time limit of 3 months today in order to bring a final administrative decision before the courts if a complaint has been lodged with the Parliamentary Ombudsman before the deadline. There was simply an inappropriate attitude as to whether it was possible also to get his case to the Parliamentary Ombudsman, when at the same time it would have dealt with other points in the SKAT's complaint system. It also includes strengthening SKAT's control over the payment of cost compensation by allowing SKAT to reject manifestly unfair fee claims and to charge interest on deferment and repayment of compensation. And it is proposed that cases of deduction for the improvement of the basic value of the FFF cases, which are simply the gift to the Danish Parliament, which over the years has continued to cause incredible problems and with high costs, will be transferred from the National Tax Court to the Appraisal Boards, which we believe have both the power to deal with those cases and also the capacity to do so. It is also the case that, if the complainant is fully or predominantly successful in the Board of Appeal, the eligible expenses incurred by the National Tax Court will be reimbursed by a total of 100%. However, because there is some efficiency in having cases transferred to the assessment boards and therefore in some respects a cut-off from future cost compensation there is a small cost for the State in the proposal of 90-110 million. kr. Of course, we are in favour of the very elements of legal certainty package II, as we are in that agreement. We also support the government in moving the handling of these cases from the National Tax Court to the Assessment Appeals Boards. We believe, as I have said, that they have the power to deal with these cases and that there is a great risk that even greater cases will be accumulated in the SKAT complaint system if we do not take this initiative. The consultation responses generally welcome the elements rounded up by legal certainty package II. And, of course, we are glad that there is some kind of receipt for what we are going to do in that area. However, there has been some criticism of the proposal to move these FFF cases to the jury. As I said, we support the Minister's overall approach, but we take very seriously the criticism that has been raised in the hearings. And we must, of course, ensure that the concerns raised are fully reflected in the work of the committee. So, overall, as you can hear, we are in favour of the draft law, but we do, of course, have some outstanding issues in dealing with the criticisms that have been made in a proper way.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118103305	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118103312	As the Social Democrats' rapporteur has said, this is about the implementation of legal certainty package II, an agreement that we in the Danish People's Party are part of and are actually extremely happy to participate in, because legal certainty is something that is very close to both me and my party. It is incredibly important when, as a citizen or company, one feels unfairly treated by the state or has received a wrong tax assessment of SKAT that one then has good opportunities to get the case tried. That is why it is a very good thing to do with the legal security package II, which is why it is quite positive. Some of the elements of the legal certainty package are being translated into this legislation. One of them is the cost compensation for companies and foundations, which is something that is being reinstated. We think that is very positive. There's a funny legal situation today. If the Treasury brings a case against a citizen for example... The national tax law and the citizen then lose, yes, then the citizen gets 100% covered. of its costs. If it is opposite to a company or fund, and the Treasury wins, then the company simply gets zero coverage. We do not think this is a fair legal position, and it is even worse if the company wins the case, because then it will not get cost compensation either. That is what we are changing now, and I think that is quite positive. Another positive element in the legal certainty package II is that there will be a so-called tax Ombudsman, in other words a department under the current Ombudsman's function, which focuses on taxation. In order for this to be possible and to be effective in practice, the deadline is slightly shifted so that it can actually be used as a citizen. It is clear that we fully support that too, of course. Then I would like to mention an element of the legal certainty package that is not to be legislated on, but which we in the Danish People's Party think is quite sensible, and that is that we have agreed to set up a Tax Law Council, which is a very good element. This is advice that both Parliament and the government can use to look at different areas. It can be regulatory simplifications; it can be legal certainty and other things. The first task we have agreed to set them in motion is to look at the whole area of tax havens, which, of course, there is a very great need to analyse and make proposals on how we can contain them. So all elements of legal certainty package II are quite positive. We can, of course, support this by the Danish People's Party. Then there is one more element that does not fall within the legal certainty package, and that is what the Socialist rapporteur also mentioned, namely the so-called FFF cases here, i.e. the deduction of land improvements that are transferred from the National Tax Court to the Appraisal Appeals Boards. It is a deduction which has actually been abolished, but there is a big matter if you can put it that way, which of course has to be dealt with, and people must have dealt with their complaints. Here it is proposed that they should now be transferred to the Boards of Appeal, even if they are actually referred to the National Tax Court. This is done quite well, because the national tax law is about to be applied. There is simply an incredibly long queue for handling cases. So we in the Danish People's Party think it makes sense that cases dealing with land or housing complaints are dealt with in the jury, which is actually what the mention is about. If you have to say something, and it is of course something that has also led to some reflection in the Danish People's Party, it is that you get cost compensation in the National Tax Court. The costs incurred to obtain an adviser are reimbursed when it is a matter for national tax law, and that is not done when it is a matter for the assessment board. But it's written in, which I think can handle it, that if you win the case in the jury, you get 100 percent covered. of the expenditure that has been incurred. This is, after all, positive, and it also makes it possible for us, overall, to vouch for this change. So I can conclude by saying that, as I said, we are of course extremely happy to be included in the legal certainty package II and that we would like to recommend that we adopt this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118103711	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118103717	Thank you for the floor. For a number of years, we have been hearing about individual cases where, unfortunately, the legal certainty of citizens in the field of taxation has been largely addressed. That is why it has always been the government's focus on taxation to ensure better legal certainty. The proposal we are now considering is part of the legal certainty package II of May. As the Social Democrat rapporteur said, these are only parts of the legal certainty package. Other parts, which deal with the Tax Law Council and better control of SKAT's control signals, are not part of this bill, but are part of the legal certainty package II. In this bill, we're reintroducing cost compensation for companies and foundations. The abolition of the cost compensation for companies and foundations has been criticised for a long time for undermining the legal certainty of companies and foundations. The rapporteur of the Danish People's Party also mentioned that we have had some problems with discrimination, depending on who was brought before the court. We're gonna make that right now. In concrete terms, the government proposes that companies and foundations should be given the opportunity to obtain cost compensation for expert assistance costs. At the same time, the right to deduct expenditure on expert assistance is maintained in tax matters. With the legislative proposal, we must once again strike a balance between strengthening legal certainty in the field of taxation and ensuring that the system of cost compensation does not encourage inappropriate use of the rules. Therefore, it is important that SKAT gets the tools needed to check whether the cost-reimbursement applications comply with the applicable requirements. A control clause is therefore introduced into the law. In addition, I would like to mention that companies complaining to the Ombudsman with the proposal will have a period of 3 months to submit their complaint to the courts afterwards. The time limit shall be extended in order to ensure that complaints do not risk losing the right to reimbursement if the case is withdrawn from the Ombudsman. Finally, the National Tax Court has long been underturned as a result of many cases of deduction for the improvement of land value. It is an obsolete legislation which no longer applies, but which has given about 10,000 cases in the National Tax Court out of the total of 30,000 that lie there. As I have said, this has given rise to a gigantic matter which needs to be dealt with, and therefore it makes good sense for these cases to be sent in the future to the assessment boards, which have available capacity. There is not so much more I want to say but that the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118103941	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118103959	This bill is primarily about legislation as a result of the negotiations in which all parties participated, about what the government calls legal certainty package II. These were negotiations that we were all involved in from start to finish. If the Minister of Taxation does not feel too ill about it, by standing here on the floor of the Parliament's platform and commending the Minister of Taxation for the process, I would say that I thought we had a good process, which made us get around all the issues in legal certainty package II and finally sat on the table, where we had to tell whether we could approve the overall result. I think that was a very good way of conducting the negotiations. The Enhedslisten ended up not supporting the overall legal certainty package II, mainly because there was one thing with which we had enormous problems. This is due to the fact that the package provides for the reintroduction of the cost compensation for companies and foundations for appeals and court proceedings. This cost compensation was otherwise abolished by the then VK government. At the same time, it was introduced that companies and foundations could be deducted from the costs of expert legal advice. The introduction of the cost compensation would then cost 60 million. kr. Every year, and on the part of Enhedslisten, we believe that it is quite unreasonable that large companies that test the limits of tax legislation should receive as much compensation as a normal employee who is in legal proceedings against SKAT. The 60 million. kr. is thus another gift to the business community, which could instead be spent on welfare. I also note that, when the three parties were in opposition in 2014, the Left and the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives tabled a motion for a resolution specifically to reinstate this cost compensation for companies and foundations. At that time, the Social Democrats, the SF, the Radicals, the Enhedslisten and Uffe Elbæk, who were then non-attached because the alternative had not yet been formed, voted against because at that time we agreed that the millions that would cost would have been spent elsewhere. At that time, DF abstained from voting. The unit list is in general opposed to the reintroduction of the cost compensation to companies and foundations for the costs of expert assistance in complaint cases against SKAT. It cannot be reasonable for large companies with a lot of resources to receive cost compensation precisely at the same level as a normal citizen complaining to SKAT. We fear that companies will abuse the cost compensation to bring proceedings against SKAT in order to test tax legislation so that they can carry out as aggressive tax planning as possible. If companies want to test tax legislation, they must at least pay for it themselves. We don't think you should spend 60 million. kr. per year on what is the expenditure assessed in the draft law. In fact, not only will the cost compensation be reinstated, but it will also maintain the deduction option introduced in 2009 instead of the remuneration, but it will not be possible for the same expenditure to be reimbursed and used as a deduction. After all, it was a left-wing government that removed the cost compensation in 2009. At that time, Mr. Kristian Jensen, that some companies transferred the costs of expert assistance to the body where compensation could be obtained, rather than using the body where only the costs of conducting the proceedings were deducted. We just note that the government and a large number of parties have changed their views on this cost compensation, but as the rapporteur's speech from up here shows, Enhedslisten has not changed its position in this matter. Then there is one thing in the draft law that we are in favour of. The Enhedslisten fully agrees with the government that we must stop the over-exploitation that has taken place on the National Tax Court in connection with the FFF cases. Lawyers have thus found that the removal of cases from the National Tax Court can provide compensation which cannot be obtained if the cases are dealt with in the Appraisal Appeals Boards. It is good that this hole is now being closed. We also agree with the government that it is good to put an end to the unfair fees of lawyers. It's not supposed to be a rooftop table, and it's good that these absurdities are being looked at. The proposal to move the FFF cases estimated a total saving of 90-110 million. kr. over a period of time. We think it should be looked at whether some of this money should not be added to the SKAT. The money is well needed here, and this bill also imposes additional costs on SKAT of 4.2 million. kr. These are things we see in other contexts when there is a bill on SKAT, where SKAT is assigned additional tasks. Then money doesn't always come with it. That is, in fact, far from the case, and we believe that this is a bad thing, especially in a situation where we are in the process of restoring the SKAT. It cannot be right for us to impose duties on SKAT without money being included at the same time. This is a general problem which does not only have to do with this bill. But overall, there are several good steps in legal certainty package II and also in the bill, but because the bill also contains cost compensation, Enhedslisten cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118104548	There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118104554	I think that's a rather strange logic, as Mr. Rune Lund shows. Companies can have many different sizes. You can have very small companies with not many employees who, because they have chosen that form of company, will not be able to receive cost compensation, whereas a much larger one-man company, for example. well will be able to do so. Does the rapporteur not see that this is an absurdity?
ParlaMint-DK_20161118104625	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118104627	Yes, and when we sat around the negotiating table over at the Treasury Department at the time it wasn't Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, but Mrs Merete Riisager, who was the tax rapporteur, we actually discussed different models of what to do, and one of the models we discussed was whether to grant this cost compensation exclusively to small businesses. And there I would say that if that were the model that had been the focal point of the negotiations and the discussion, we would have been clearly more positive. But it's just not the model we ended up on here, and it wasn't the model that was the mood for. But it would clearly have made a difference to us if there had been only cost compensation for small businesses.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118104711	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118104713	However, it is also a strange view that a company's legal position vis-à-vis SKAT must depend on the size of the company. That's one. The second is that there are at least not many companies in this society that have more resources than the SKAT has. SKAT has many, many resources, and SKAT is also testing the limits, which is why it is natural that companies, no matter what form of business they are, should be equated with each other with the authorities, which have very, very large resources.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118104757	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118104758	I would like to make two comments on this. The first is that I believe that Mr. Joachim B. Olsen describes the SKAT wrong and the way the SKAT works, completely wrong. SKAT is a public institution, SKAT must comply with the law, SKAT works according to the law we adopt in the Folketing. SKAT is not a party. SKAT is the SKAT of all Danes. SKAT must act on the basis of legislation. So it is a wrong picture that it is SKAT against companies. SKAT is a public authority like all other public authorities. That's one thing. The other thing: There is obviously a difference between whether you are a small master craftsman or whether you are a large multinational company with your own law firm, which has lots of lawyers that you can send to test tax legislation in lots of cases and then even get cost compensation for it. It is obvious that there is a very big difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118104849	Thank you. Then it's mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118104852	I think it is quite fair if one disagrees in the Folketing on how taxation should be, on whether it is large or small companies, or whether it is top tax or bottom tax, but I just wonder that Enhedslisten makes that division when it comes to legal certainty. After all, it is a basic thing that we must have the same rights, that is, the right to take up the fight with SKAT or another authority if you feel unfairly treated. There is, of course, the discrimination today that if you have a one-man company, that is to say a company privately owned by one man, you get a cost allowance, even if you may have 500 employees under you, but if you have chosen to do it as a limited company and only one employee under you, you do not get that is what is unfair in this, that is to say that the basic right depends on the form of the company. I don't think that's right. It must be almost a law of nature in the Danish rule of law that you have the same opportunity to test the cases. I am very surprised that Enhedslisten does not think it is quite reasonable that you can test your case against an authority if you feel unfairly treated.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118104944	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118104945	It is very interesting that this question is being asked, because now all we need is that Mr. Jesper Petersen asks the same question, because then we can make a majority. The Enhedslisten, the Social Democrats and the Danish People's Party together have a majority in this thing. So if there is a feeling in this Chamber today that we are looking at changing the rules for cost compensation to go only to small businesses, I would like to say that I would like to seize that opportunity and that is one thing I would very much like to pursue during the committee procedure. That's it, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær suggests that we can just as easily reopen that part of legal certainty package II and have a debate that this cost compensation should not go to all companies, not least the large companies, but only to small companies? I think that is an interesting development, if that is what comes out of today's debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118105036	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118105037	You hear what you want to hear, and at least you haven't heard what I asked. We were just arguing that it is a basic right that one has to try one's case off, and I just asked if Enhedslisten doesn't think it's weird that one thus separates according to the form of the company. I think it is reasonable that everyone should have good legal certainty. Whether you're big or small, you have to have a good chance to try your case off to the state, and in this case it's against SKAT. We disagree on that, so no, there is not a majority in favour of Enhedslisten's policy, but of course you can table amendments or take part in the negotiations and try to get it through. But does it not seem strange to oneself to distinguish in such a way that a huge company owned by one man, a private man, receives cost compensation while a small limited company with one or two men does not get? Surely it is not legal certainty that there is discrimination in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118105119	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118105121	There is a huge difference between whether you are a company where you may have an employee, or whether you are a large multinational company with your own law firm, where you are constantly sending your tax lawyers to test the law and then even get cost compensation for it, paid by the Danish taxpayers. Why do Danish taxpayers have to pay large multinational companies and their legal offices so that they can constantly test tax legislation? That's not fair! After all, you already have much more privileged access to testing tax legislation. Surely it is not equal opportunities to spend taxpayers' money in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118105158	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more comments. Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118105223	Thank you. The bill implements the legal certainty package II, which a broad majority in the Folketing is behind. Denmark is characterised by a high degree of trust, both between citizens and in our legal system. However, there has been a legal situation in the field of taxation where companies and foundations have failed to go to the courts, even though they have thought that they had the right on their side. They have not done so because the cost of bringing proceedings against the tax system with unlimited resources has exceeded the gain by winning the case. The starting point of a well-functioning legal system must always be that citizens and businesses are not discouraged from conducting cases when they believe that they have not been treated in accordance with the law. The draft law equals access for companies and foundations to cost compensation with citizens' right to cost compensation. This also applies to other forms of enterprise, e.g.: Single-member companies. It is essential that the system does not have an interest in trying out all possible and impossible limits in the legislation without the citizens having a real opportunity to respond. The proposal also introduces a tax office with the Parliamentary Ombudsman. The series of scandals in the SKAT, where the tax system has behaved in a way contrary to everyone's sense of justice, requires that aid to the citizen be upgraded in an unfair situation. Finally, it is proposed to move the so-called FFF cases from the National Tax Court to the Appraisal Appeals Boards. This has given rise to intense criticism in some media in recent days. Certain criticisms have been made where there is a good point. It is a question of changing the procedure for a large number of ongoing cases. It is certainly not optimal, but there are other essential considerations at stake. The large amount of FFF cases makes the National Tax Court true, and in these cases there is not a fundamental dispute. SKAT believes that, in cooperation with the citizens, these matters can be dealt with simply. In cases where a ruling has been passed so far, the citizen has received an average refund of DKK 900. On the other hand, the average remuneration in the cases was DKK 35,000. The cost of the lawyer and the benefit to the citizen must be in some form of proportion to each other. The judicial system is not for the benefit of lawyers. We are confident that these matters can be dealt with sensibly in the appeal boards, but, of course, we should keep an eye on the area and, if cases are brought forward where the citizen is made considerably worse, we must return to this area. However, on the basis of which it is based, we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118105514	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mr. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118105520	This is a good example of such a bill, where you can get smarter along the way. When I first saw that, I remembered back to our debate on the legal certainty package II, again a good course of negotiations, as also the Enhedslisten's rapporteur pointed out earlier. We also ended up saying no for a number of reasons. But when we said no thanks, I thought we might not be able to do this either. Actually, that's where I'm standing right now. I do not think I am going to be able to say from the platform today whether we are in favour of the proposal or not, nor can I say exactly what had to be divided up so that we could be involved in it, we will have to find out here in the coming weeks. However, I would like to commend and say that the prerequisite for agreeing to support this has become much, much better since we were sitting at the meetings on legal certainty package II. For then there was no goodwill on the part of the government to say that there was an economic problem, there might be, but there was certainly no willingness to support it with the economy. We had a problem in agreeing whether to invest in SKAT and more employees in order to solve these problems, not least to solve the problems of legal certainty. It's happened now. There's been a really good investment in SKAT... it's much smaller than what we in the Alternative think it's gonna be... Because of the interesting dialogue that Liberal Alliance's rapporteur and Enhedslisten's rapporteur had before about what SKAT really is for a size in Danish society. There we are thinking that it is very important to remember that here in Parliament we decide what to do with SKAT, and SKAT is actually a dynamo that would like to help us all, and not anyone we should be against. We just need to find some way in which we'll all be happy to pay SKAT, because we think we'll get a good service that matches the deposit and the investment we make here. At the time, when we were in the negotiations, I could not see that the government had that understanding. At least there was no understanding or willingness to invest in SKAT. Now we are somewhere else, and I have read the points again, and there are some places where I am not sure that we are actually increasing legal certainty. There are also several consultation responses, including: from Ernst & Young, who says that this in some places may actually lead to a deterioration in legal certainty. Yeah, I don't know, but I'm also leaning a little bit on a statement that our tax minister made in a review here from the platform a few weeks ago. Sometimes we also have to look at the legislative proposals and whether we should insist on splitting them up and thus doubling the number of legislative proposals in this Chamber, or we should try to say that we can be in 80%. That's where I'm standing right now. So I think it is very, very important to say that the government has been saying that since we had these points of legal certainty in the negotiations: yes, we have to invest massively in SKAT. And it's been done. There has been massive investment in new employees. Therefore, we can also go in much more than in the past and say that some of these initiatives are not just glaze, but that there has actually been investment in resolving the problem itself now. So these symptom treatments, as this far along the way has been seen with our eyes in the alternative, maybe they're actually gonna be okay. I am still insecure because I also remember the dialogue that was about the code of conduct to be optimized or reinterpreted in relation to SKAT's employees. This was one of the things we were also discussing in the negotiations about whether we could go along with it, namely that we actually raised the index finger with the employees in the SKAT and said that one should work in a new way, have a new attitude when working in the SKAT. Some parameters simply needed to be improved. If there was something that was not done well enough today, we should say from a political point of view: we must now have a new culture. There I think we missed taking political responsibility and saying that perhaps it is also the framework we have set up for how tax workers should work that makes it a little difficult as an employee to comply with the culture we want them to live by. But all in all, we are very positive about this proposal. There are two or three things in it that may make us say no, but I am much more in favour than I was when we were in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118105916	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118105922	I think I can make it a little shorter. I think it is an excellent legal certainty package that has been landed. It is a package that makes it easier, simpler and cheaper for companies to be able to complain if they have been mistreated in their own view. And if it turns out that they are right, they will of course be reimbursed, and it is cheap and simple for them to complain. We are in favour of this. That is something that strengthens legal certainty. We also think that the transfer of a large number of cases from the National Tax Court to the Appraisal Appeals Boards simply because the National Tax Court is being completely true and because it is dealing with very similar cases is sensible. A number of others have mentioned this. The way you've screwed it up, I think you can defend it too. So, as we are part of this conciliation, of course, we also intend to vote in favour of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118110021	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118110038	This bill is, after all, the implementation of an agreement concluded by the government with a number of parties. SF was not part of the agreement, mainly because of the point of full compensation to companies. I will come back to that. Like the Enhedslisten's rapporteur and others, I would also like to express my thanks for a good progress. Whether you agree or disagree with the tax minister, he is therefore one of the ministers who is able to deliver in the best processes. It may sound a little technical, but that means that you will gain a greater degree of trust, and the only thing that can finally separate is the political one, and it should be that way. So I'd like to sign for that, too. After all, the draft law contains a large number of points. I would also like to comment briefly on this new tax office of the Ombudsman of the Danish Parliament, because it is true that it was part of the discussion over there, but at the same time the President of the Danish Parliament also invited the political parties to discuss whether it was something in which the Danish Parliament could see itself. All the parties agreed to that and it has been a long process. Whoever the honors are doesn't matter now, but it's just to say that although we are some parties that aren't in this package, we were part of the process of saying yes to the tax office. Back to the point that was crucial for us not to be able to support the agreement or the legislative proposal, despite the fact that there are a large number of good points, and it was precisely that there should be full cost compensation for companies. If it had only been a matter of compensation, if the company had won the case, we could have discussed it, but we think it would open a barn gate when you get 50 percent compensation if you lose. That was the same thing I said when we were negotiating, namely that we thought that the scheme was now too generous. So that is actually the reason why we are not in it, although there are a large number of other good points in it. So SF cannot support the bill in its entirety, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118110310	The Conservative rapporteur is not here, so that is why the tax minister is now here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118110318	Thank you and thank you for the largely positive reception of the proposal. It is, of course, one of my priorities as Minister for Taxation to improve legal certainty in the field of taxation, and I am pleased that there is broad support for the proposal as well as this agenda in the Folketing. It's gratifying. After all, the proposal follows on from the legal certainty package I of last year, when we had SKAT's ability to carry out checks on private property, and I would like to see another legal certainty package in the spring, namely legal certainty package III, which contains a revision of the tax control law. The main element of the legislative proposal we are discussing today, as many rapporteurs have also mentioned, is the implementation of the cost compensation for taxable companies and foundations, and the proposal provides us with the necessary equality between companies and foundations and citizens and self-employed persons so that they can recover the costs of expert assistance. It's a little strange in my optics that if you run your craft business in company form, you can't get cost compensation, but that if you run it as sole proprietorship, you can get it. That is not fair, and then you can choose to harmonise the rules downwards or upwards, and in this case it is natural to harmonise them upwards so as to increase the number of beneficiaries who can benefit from the cost compensation. The agreement on legal certainty package II also contains a proposal for the establishment of a tax office with the Parliamentary Ombudsman, something that a number of parties have been asking for for for many years. The Office is now in the process of being established, and the provision in the draft law to postpone the three-month period in order to bring a final administrative decision before the courts if the citizen complains to the Ombudsman should be seen in this light. It does so in general Danish that you actually have the opportunity to complain to the Ombudsman and have your case brought there under the rules which, moreover, apply to the Ombudsman's institution. The system of cost compensation is unique worldwide; as far as is known, there is no similar favourable system in any other country. The scheme contributes to greater legal certainty in the tax field because citizens and companies do not refrain, for economic reasons, from complaining about SKAT's decisions on their tax payments. However, it is important that there is a balance and fairness in the scheme and that it is robust so that it is not abused. It should not be a self-table for tax advisors and lawyers, but it should be the citizen's focus that is at the centre. The draft law therefore also contains a number of measures aimed at balance and fairness in the scheme, which also means that it has a size so that we can find funding. You have to deal with that too. The government is also concerned with reducing the length of proceedings by the administrative appeal bodies. The fact that decisions are taken within a reasonable period of time is a natural part of the concept of legal certainty. There is little point in being right if you have to wait 5, 8 or 10 years to get it, because you have to be right within a reasonable period of time. Because the national tax law is currently being applied in what are called FFF cases, land improvement cases, we propose in the proposal that these cases be transferred from the National Tax Court to the Assessment Appeal Boards, where there is a spare capacity. This will ease the burden on the National Tax Court and, hopefully, overall lead to a more effective handling of the tax complaints. Of course, some questions have also been raised about this from some of the rapporteurs here today, and there are also some consultation answers, and I would, of course, like to deal with that in this Chamber today or in the further work of the committee. However, I would like to start by thanking you for the debate and, of course, I would also like to thank those parties which are not included in the legal certainty package I, but which have signed up to the fact that there has been a good process, and that has a value too. Even if, for political reasons, you choose not to participate, there is in fact a value in having a good process, and I am striving to do so as a tax minister. I have done so in the past and, of course, I will do so in the future, but I am glad that some people are also aware of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118110725	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118110746	The debate is open. Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118110759	Thank you very much. The Social Democrats don't support this bill. From a social democratic point of view, the bill does not take sufficient account of patient safety, and for social democracy there is nothing more important in health policy than patients' safety. This bill is about manipulation of the body's joints, where the current legislation gives doctors and chiropractors the right to give this manipulation. The government will now amend the law so that registered alternative practitioners and physiotherapists will also have to manipulate patients' bodies. A year ago, the Danish Health Service launched an investigation into this area to ensure a thorough assessment and description of the consequences of the government's desired amendment of the law. In April of this year, the study from the Danish Health Authority and the Board for Patient Safety was so clear. The recommendations were very clear, so they were both from the Danish Health Authority and the newly created Board for Patient Safety. Let me just mention a few things from the summary of the two regimes: on the manipulation of the cervical column, they say that severe collateral damage has been described and they are of a permanent functional decline. They also say that doctors and chiropractors in their training gain knowledge and experience about indications and any contraindications in relation to it manipulating the spine. This leads to a recommendation which reads as follows: It is therefore recommended that manipulation of the spine remains reserved for doctors and chiropractors to perform. And that is because the damage you see is very serious. They also express in their recommendations that manipulating the peripheral joints of the body is not associated with the same patient safety risks, and therefore their recommendation, and I quote: It is therefore recommended that manipulation of the peripheral joints of the body and joint mobilisation of the back and peripheral joints should not be reserved for particular professional groups. It is very clear talk from our top national health authorities, which must ensure the safety of patients. Finally, you say, and I quote, 'The Board is of the opinion that a doubt about the professionality of treatment should benefit patients'. The Social Democratic Party fully agrees with this. We in the Socialist Group believe that these recommendations should be followed. They are professionally founded, and it is our top national health authorities who express them. We wonder why the Minister of Health is not doing so. For us, there is nothing more important than the safety of patients. We are also astonished that an essential requirement of the law is the establishment of liability insurance in relation to registered alternative practitioners. It is the case that the registered alternative practitioners are not part of the replacement system that we have in relation to patients in general in Denmark. It's the physiotherapists. For this reason, a special insurance concept must be drawn up and, as is currently shown, insurance & Pension has given its opinion yes, so there is no such product on the shelves in Denmark today. I therefore find it strange that we should deal first with a legislative proposal when something so important in the legislative proposal is uncertain. As I said, the Socialists do not support the bill, and that is because too little consideration is given to patients' safety. In their response to the hearing, the Aggregation has expressed the same opinion. It is very much their patients who go for manipulation in chiropractors and doctors and they think that professionalism should be in place. They also see that there is too much risk. I would also like to mention once again that both the Danish Health Authority and the Board for Patient Safety express the same opinion; the medical companies in this area do the same, even with very clear emphasis on it. That is why, on the part of the Socialist Group, we think that this is the wrong way to go. The consequences for patients are too serious for us to support this bill. This is a position that we have had throughout the debate, even during the spring months, when the parties made an agreement with the Minister for Health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118111321	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of brief comments. First, Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118111330	Thank you very much. You can have a déjà vu experience if you were here 10 years ago. I would therefore like to ask the rapporteur what has happened to social democracy over the ten years. Exactly 10 years ago, there was a Social Democrat who went up on the same platform and argued that chiropractors should be part of our authorised health care system, although the Health Service and many others in their hearing said that there was no evidence of manipulation and that therefore it would not be recommended. What has happened in those ten years? Has the rapporteur been given more evidence that only chiropractors can manipulate? What does it do to oppose it, despite the fact that we have had this debate over the past few years incredibly many times and that we have looked at what they are doing in other countries and whether some more damage has been observed? Because we know that both physiotherapists and body-sds have actually been using manipulation or as they also call it the joint movement for many years. So what has happened during that time?
ParlaMint-DK_20161118111438	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118111441	Thank you for the question put by the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. What has happened in the course of the ten years is that the chiropractors in Denmark have today become an integral part of our health care system with very high professionalism and very much experience. That is exactly what is the starting point for the Danish Health Authority and the Danish Agency for Patient Safety Assessment here. It is that they have professional skills, that they have it with them in their education, that they practice it today, that they can see the differential diagnosis for the patient, and that they can assess the symptoms in a completely different and deeper professionally based way than other professional groups can say.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118111524	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118111527	But I'd like to hear something. Ten years ago it was exactly the same case, just with another category of people, and here the Health Service and everyone else advised against it, saying that there was no evidence for it. Here we have some physiotherapists who have a long education and who actually also manipulate. So says Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen, they don't know that. Is this how I should hear it, or is it because 10 years ago, you were either smarter or dumber in Social Democracy than you are today?
ParlaMint-DK_20161118111558	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118111601	Thank you for the question. Indeed, I would like to clarify what my view and that of the Social Democrats on the professionalism of the physiotherapists is. It is a professional group that we respect very, very much, and that is why we fully agree with the Health Authority and the Board for Patient Safety recommendations, namely that physiotherapists should be allowed to manipulate the whole body phrased the spine. Here we need clear rules. They must be allowed to manipulate the whole body phrasing the spine because manipulation of the spine is subject to very special risks and it is very serious side effects that can occur. They're rare, but they can occur. I myself have worked as a nurse in a neurosurgery ward, and it is deep within me what side effects there are, for example, if you get upset or have a fracture of the spine in the neck harrows. You become extremely handicapped and severely paralyzed. That's what we're talking about in this situation, and that's why physiotherapists should be allowed to manipulate the whole body phrasing the spine. That is the recommendation of the country's national health authorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118111704	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118111708	Thank you. If the manipulation of joints should only be reserved for chiropractors, as the Social Democrat rapporteur suggests, then in Denmark we will have one of the sovereign most restrictive laws in this area. If we compare ourselves with some of the countries with which we usually compare ourselves, Sweden, Finland, Iceland, France, the Netherlands, England and Germany, we see that these countries do not have nearly as restrictive legislation as the rapporteur suggests, and they do, of course, also have to note health boards which advise them. Can the rapporteur not recognise that, when you look at it internationally, there is great confidence that physiotherapists and alternative practitioners can carry out this task?
ParlaMint-DK_20161118111757	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118111800	Thank you for the question. I think it is very clear from the Conservative rapporteur that the Conservative People's Party puts more faith in the practices of other countries, the national health authorities of other countries than the Danish Health Authority and the Danish Patient Safety Agency. We do not do that in the Social Democratic Party, and we think that we have a very fine arrangement in Denmark today that takes into account the safety of patients. This is the main concern of the health policy of the Social Democratic Party. That's it! And that is why I am surprised that the Conservative People's Party and others are opposed to the recommendations that are so clear from our national health authorities. That's our reservation. We would very much like the physiotherapists to be able to manipulate completely according to what is the recommendation from the controllers.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118111858	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118111901	I can of course hear the rapporteur's view that we must always do what the Danish Health Authority recommends. That is what the rapporteur is proposing. Then I would just like to hear why 14 days ago an agreement was reached with the Social Democratic Party, in which it is clear that it is opposed to the recommendation of the Danish Health Service, namely in relation to medical cannabis. Now that the rapporteur thinks that we should always follow the recommendations that come and not deal with them politically, it might be interesting to hear that. Then perhaps I should also like to remind the rapporteur that before 2013, the Danish Health Authority also thought that physiotherapists could be manipulated.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118111936	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118111939	The National Health Service also believes today that physiotherapists can do manipulation treatment. That is exactly what their recommendation says. And, of course, in the Social Democratic Party, we assess every single case. We also want us to be a modern country, we also need to take new steps forward, but we need to ensure the safety of patients in the world, and that is why we have this view on this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118112003	Sir. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118112010	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur for the rapporteur's speech, on which I was in complete agreement on a long stretch, for the fact that the concern for patient safety must weigh very, very heavily. What I would like to ask is a little like what Mrs Mette Abildgaard previously asked about, and that is that in the past, physiotherapists have been manipulating the spine without having been able to prove that there has been a greater risk of physical therapists rather than chiropractors or doctors having done so. There is no evidence that there have been major adverse effects there. Nor is there any evidence of this in the foreign experience we have. So, does it not make a certain impression on the Socialist rapporteur that it is the case, whether we look at past Danish experience or international experience, that there is nothing to support the assertion that it would be more risky to let physiotherapists carry out this treatment than the chiropractors or doctors do?
ParlaMint-DK_20161118112103	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118112108	What is quite clear is that professionalism, education and training play a role here. I would like to quote again what they are saying: The agency is of the opinion that a doubt about the professionality of treatment should benefit patients. Quote out. I think that is clear speech. And I have said very clearly here today what the attitude of the Social Democratic Party is to the professionalism of the physiotherapists. I think it is really a pity that this bill includes registered alternative practitioners. It would have been another discussion about professionalism if some of the parts had been split up. I have always said throughout the discussion here that physiotherapists see I have a role in the manipulation of the peripheral parts of the body, and then came the Health Authority and the Board for Patient Safety Recommendations and said something completely identical. So that is the position of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118112205	Here you go, sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118112209	Thank you. However, it is also clear from the same consultation material that both the Danish Health Authority and the Danish Agency for Patient Safety state, and I quote, that there is no knowledge of the relationship between education level and profession and risk factors in relation to manipulation treatments. In other words, the Danish Health Authority and the Board of Patient Safety also recognise that there is no evidence of any relationship to this. And I just think that when we look at the experience we have, both nationally and internationally, it should be a matter of some concern whether it is really just an expression of a very, very conservative approach that we cannot extend this area when there is no professional evidence that it should lead to a greater risk for patients.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118112249	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118112251	Thank you for the question. Yes, that is quite correct, but what is, after all, the overall conclusion of both regimes is that the uncertainty and doubts expressed here must benefit patients. We think that's the right thing to do. And this is how the Arthritis Association expresses the fact that there are patient organisations that are uncertain and nervous and have doubts about the fact that it will also give the registered alternative practitioners an opportunity for the low level of education they have, although it is said that they should have some more theoretical hours in this area. It is patient safety that makes us stand firm on this, and it is especially in the neck and neck vertebrae that the severe injuries can occur. It has been here all the way, we have taken our reservations, and I had hoped that we could reach political agreement so that the Social Democratic Party could also have been involved in the draft law • that this was where we took account of patients, because there is doubt in this area. But the other parties do not want it, they want it, they want the Board for Patient Safety, and that is what the Social Democratic Party wants.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118112359	Thank you. And the next for a brief comment is Mrs May-Britt Kattrup, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118112408	Now the rapporteur has talked a great deal about how important it is to follow the recommendations and professionalism of the Danish Health Authority. However, we have not really received an answer as to why it was not so important two weeks ago in connection with the legalisation of medical cannabis. Here the Danish Health Service also recommended that it should not be legalised. But it is the Social Democrats who are in full support of this, so what is the difference in the two cases here?
ParlaMint-DK_20161118112439	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118112443	Thank you for the question. There are many differences. When it comes to medical cannabis, we are talking about making an experimental scheme and that we will try something of. So what has been presented here is not an experimental system. It's a change of law.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118112500	Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118112504	It is true that it is an experimental scheme. It then runs over 3 years, and in all 3 years patients can use medical cannabis legally. They can do that in the deal we're about to make here. For patients, it may not matter whether it is called an experimental scheme or whether it is finally legalized. For 3 years, patients will legally be able to use medical cannabis, so patient safety is the same, whether it is a trial scheme or a permanent scheme for the 3 years. So why can the Socialist rapporteur follow one and not the other?
ParlaMint-DK_20161118112542	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118112545	In fact, as a health rapporteur, I am a little sad that it is being made a question of whether or not the Health Service is being consulted in one context or another. For the Social Democratic Party it is a question of patients' safety, and here it has been stated very clearly from the medical societies, patient associations, the Board of Patient Safety and the Health Authority that it is not considered that patients' safety is being weighed. In other words, there will be too great a risk of serious side effects due to manipulation treatment by professional groups who do not have the same level of education and knowledge as doctors and chiropractors. I think it is a pity for patients that, overall, the Folketing does not place greater emphasis on patient safety.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118112636	Then it's Mrs. Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118112640	Thank you. I would like to follow up both on Mrs May-Britt Kattrup's question and also on Mrs Mette Abildgaard's. The rapporteur says here that he is sorry that this is going to be a question of whether or not you follow the recommendations of the Danish Health Service. Well, the rapporteur himself has repeatedly stated on the platform that the reason why we cannot support this bill is that we do not follow the recommendations of the Health Authority, in other words, in the rapporteur's terminology. I would just like to ask what the difference is, compared to the fact that about two weeks ago, we could skate over the recommendations of the Danish Health Service, agree to an agreement on an experimental scheme with medical cannabis, and then here today we think otherwise. The starting point is that we suddenly do not follow the recommendations of the Danish Health Service, although the bill here partly monitors, partly ensures that there is an insurance scheme and we monitor for 3 years, just as a trial scheme has been set up for 3 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118112735	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118112739	I just want to say: a possible insurance scheme. What is quite clear in the evidence from the professional side is that whether others should be able to manipulate the spine is seen with social democratic eyes really, really clear. And we speak for the safety of patients in every context here in the Assembly and in every political discussion we have. Therefore, we do not jump over where the strain is low, because some want registered alternative practitioners to have the opportunity to manipulate patients. Here the Social Democrats are listening to the greatest and highest professionalism we have in this country, and those arguments are sufficiently sharp to say that we should not compromise there. But the Left wants it, it wants a Left Health Minister to do so. I have also sensed a little along the way that the Minister for Health has wondered whether it would now be the right way to go, but that is the way to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118112845	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118112850	I can at least conclude from the answer that the Social Democratic Party believes one week and that something different the other week as to whether to follow the recommendations of the Danish Health Service. I would just like to ask the rapporteur something like this. One of the points raised by the Danish Health Authority and the Danish Agency for Patient Safety is, of course, that there is no knowledge of the link between level of education and profession and risk factors. Does the rapporteur accept this point of departure?
ParlaMint-DK_20161118112917	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118112920	I fully acknowledge what the Board for Patient Safety and Health has said. However, I could have put the counter-question to the rapporteur of the Left, namely whether the rapporteur of the Left recognises the overall conclusion that is ■ and I quote: The board believes that a doubt about the professionality of treatment should benefit patients. That is why they say that it is doctors and chiropractors who must manipulate patients' spines, and not others, because the risk of very serious side effects is too great.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118112952	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118113004	I would just like to correct it with the year in the question I asked. It was somewhat later than ten years ago that it was decided on the operation of chiropractors in this Chamber. But then there was also a majority, regardless of the fact that there was a Health Board that meant something different. That is why I am also pleased that we are standing in the same room today and saying that we can see that there are others who can do the same things. But when you go back and look at how this case started, you might ask: was it because someone was hurt that you started to tear up a case about someone who treated people? No, it was because of a TV broadcast where a body-sds-- it's someone who massages and helps people when they're in pain... showed why they were called a miracle worker. Apparently someone from the National Health Service saw that, and then they reported the man and accused him of doing something he wasn't allowed to do. So it was not because he hurt anyone, on the contrary; it was someone who helped people get rid of some of the pains that they had. He was actually so good that the television had summoned him to show what he could do. That's what recorded some MPs back then. It's been a few years now, and we've been discussing this case. We've cross-checked it. We have looked into whether anyone has been injured either in what we call a body-sds, which are just under the name of registered alternative treatment, or in physiotherapists who also do not have the authorisation for manipulation. But we can see that there are no more or fewer injuries than when a chiropractor performs the crack that is popularly called. I think we have had a very good dialogue with various bodies. And yes, the Health Authority advises against what the previous rapporteur said, but it is so often that the Health Authority advises against some things, especially if there is no evidence, and there is no evidence for chiropractic treatment, even from chiropractics. Even so, there are sometimes, fortunately, Members of Parliament who take up the matter and say: well, we can see that there are people who are being helped here and that no one is going to be harmed by it. I mean, sometimes I wonder about the Health Department. We need them to get up on their feet when there is a psychiatrist who gives too much medication, or there are some who have side effects there you can leave it there but because on a TV show you see that there is a man who does something that he definitely can't do, then you go to flint and report the man to do something illegal, which he can then be punished for. So I think it is very nice that we have a people's regime that can sometimes go in and make some provisions itself, as was done in 1991 in connection with a chiropractor. There was a clever Social Democrat who took it up with the support of the SF and then the Progress Party and then came a law that chiropractors were authorized. Now we have this bill, and fortunately there is a majority behind it. I think it's really good that we now know that when a physiotherapist or a body-sds manipulator, they can. Some special requirements have been made for body-sds because they do not have the same health authorisation as a physiotherapist. And I am sure that these are some things that we will resolve gradually. One of the things that is also of concern to the Danish People's Party is one of the points about how, as authorised today, you cannot get under the registered alternative treatment scheme, i.e. the RAB scheme. I want to take that up with the Minister during the debate and I hope that we can have an amendment tabled so that we can ensure that even if you have a licence as a physiotherapist, a nurse, you can come under the RAB scheme and, of course, with the things that go with it. So I can only say that the Danish People's Party supports the proposal. And I hope that we can get very good treatment and some very good answers from the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118113441	We thank the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118113506	One might say that today we are finishing a long journey. It can also be said that we are starting a new one, because it has been a long process, and many hours of negotiations are the basis of the draft law we are dealing with today, amending the law on the authorisation of health professionals and on health professionals and the law on an industry-managed registration system for alternative practitioners. The draft law is based on a broad political agreement from June 2016, which in turn takes its origins in a resolution from 2015. The bill here gives registered alternative practitioners with training in manual treatment and physiotherapists, like chiropractors and doctors, the right to manipulate the spine. In other words, we are expanding the field of business for some professional groups. And I have noted that there are associations and professional groups expressing concern about the bill here, but let me make it clear that for us in the Left, patient safety is important when we change, for example. the health law, as is the case here today. And when, with open eyes and with the reservations of the Health Authority in the back of the Left, we approve of the bill here and support the political agreement, there are several good arguments behind it. Firstly, the background to the political agreement is a review by Bispebjerg Hospital, which concludes that it is not possible to derive valid safety estimates, as well as the Danish Health Authority and the Board of Patient Safety recognise that there is no correlation between education level and risk factors related to manipulation treatment. In the process, we have looked around in the big world to learn more about what the legislation is like in, for example. Sweden, Germany and Finland are countries with which we often compare. And the message from this is clear: Denmark has even very restrictive legislation. Secondly, we demand 250 hours of relevant and industry-approved training for those RABs who want to perform manipulation treatment. Thirdly, it will be compulsory for RABs performing manipulation treatment to have liability insurance, thus covering in the event of damage. And there will also be reporting obligations. By the way, the task groups that perform spinal manipulation are being closely monitored for the next three years, and it makes sense when we introduce changes, as we are doing today, that we then follow developments closely and monitor regularly and consistently. Against this background, the Left can support the bill as put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118113749	There are no brief comments, so we would like to thank the rapporteur and move on to Mr Beazley's report. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118113804	Thank you. Today we have to deal first with L 47, which states that chiropractors, doctors and physiotherapists have the right to perform manipulation treatment of the spine. The same applies to registered alternative practitioners with a minimum of 250 hours of training in manual treatment. Authorised healthcare professionals meeting the requirements of alternative practitioners as well as the requirements of manual treatment shall also be entitled to perform manipulation treatment of the spine. I would like to start by saying that I think it is important that we establish that we do not introduce a new and unknown practice here. Physiotherapists and approved alternative practitioners have been handling the spinal column for several years also without greater risk of injury than in doctors and chiropractors. The reason why we have this bill here today is that there is a new interpretation from the Danish Health Service from April 2016 that makes it impossible to continue the practice for physiotherapists and approved alternative practitioners. That is why this proposal is about the continuation of an already known practice. We have had a very thorough examination of this proposal in the negotiations in the Ministry. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank my political colleagues and Minister and Department for a good negotiating process. It is always extremely difficult when it is the case that legislation has to be adopted that goes against the recommendations of a governing body. I think, however, that we are on quite a safe footing, both when we look at the many years of experience gained from the previous practice, where there has been no evidence of a higher damage rate and therefore a risk to patients in physiotherapists and approved alternative practitioners, and, as has also been mentioned earlier, when we look at the international experience with which we can measure ourselves. None of the countries we normally compare ourselves with, either in the Nordic countries or in northern Europe, have a practice which has been almost as restrictive as the present Danish one, and that is the one where back manipulation treatment is reserved for doctors and chiropractors. Even with the change we are making here in L 47, there is still a more restrictive practice in Denmark than in many of the countries with which we usually compare, and it does not matter either, because there must be no question about patient safety. I just think that it is worth noting in this context that the consultation material also makes it clear, and I quote: The Danish Health Authority and the Board for Patient Safety also recognise in their study of manual treatment and the reserved business area of chiropractors from April 2016 that there is no knowledge of the relationship between education level, profession and risk factors in the context of manipulation treatment. Therefore, it is also emphasised that there is no clear link which can demonstrate the need for the very restrictive practice that has existed so far. We are also very pleased that with this proposal there will be better regulation of the area of approved alternative practitioners, where very specific training requirements are now being made. We then still have an outstanding balance in relation to the insurance scheme for the approved alternative practitioners. As authorised healthcare professionals, physiotherapists are covered by patient compensation. It is a little surprising that an agreement has not yet been reached with Insurance and Pension around this new business area for the approved alternative practitioners, as in the negotiations it was our view that it was almost a matter of form, but we have full confidence that the Minister will ensure that there will be an agreement which will be acceptable to all parties and which Insurance and Pension have also throughout the process signalled will be possible. We will, of course, follow this closely through the work of the committee. However, I am pleased that today, with this proposal, we will be able to continue the practice previously in force where it is possible for physiotherapists and approved alternative practitioners to be able to manipulate the spine. That is why I must say that the Enhedslisten can of course support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118114207	We thank the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118114215	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance supports the bill, which will equate physiotherapists and approved registered alternative practitioners with doctors and chiropractors in the field of manual treatment, including manipulation of the body's joints. The bill will mean that approved registered alternative practitioners with training in manual treatment and physiotherapists, like chiropractors, will be entitled to perform joint manipulation, including spine. The prerequisite is that the practitioner has manual treatment training and, in the case of the RABs, it is additionally a requirement that they are registered in a trade association approved by the Patient Safety Agency. It should be noted that the training for physiotherapists is a 31⁄2 year professional bachelor, and that in this training there are among others. training is included in manual processing. In the case of RABs, at least 250 lessons are required for manual processing. There is neither domestic nor foreign analysis and experience to suggest that Denmark as the only country continues to maintain the very restrictive legislation on monopoly-like conditions in this area. Nor is there any indication that it should pose a greater risk to patients. There are no professional arguments to support that it should be related to less patient safety. That is why the Liberal Alliance can only support the proposal as it stands now.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118114402	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Ulla Sandbæk, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118114417	Thank you. The alternative also supports this bill, which will allow physiotherapists and alternative practitioners to carry out manual treatment, since it has already been demonstrated by all the previous speakers that there is no danger to patient safety. I do not think I need to go into all the arguments that have already been put forward so quite splendidly by all the previous speakers. So I'm not gonna spend the time of the thing. I would just like to say that, in the alternative, we are pleased to support this proposal. We always think it is very good when alternative practitioners and traditional practitioners can enrich each other with their own approach and cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118114505	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we move on to Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118114512	Thank you. When you discover that law and reality don't fit together, you can do two things. Either you can make sure that the law is observed, or you have to change the law so that it corresponds to reality. This was the kind of situation we were faced with here, where a number of therapists who use manipulation treatment and manual treatment of joints were suddenly getting into trouble doing something they were not allowed to do. That's what we're cleaning up now. The bill here means that physiotherapists will have access to manipulation of the spine, as will registered alternative practitioners and authorised healthcare professionals who have a minimum of 250 hours of training in manual treatment. At the same time, we say to the registered alternative practitioners that they must have liability insurance so that, if they are injured, patients can be compensated. Thus, no one gets caught up in the fact that the alternative practitioners are not covered by the patient's replacement. As others have said, we have fought a lot back and forth with this, and although I think it is a little strange that we should legislate on it in this Chamber, I should like to take advantage of the opportunity to thank you for the great work that has been put into it. I think we can be satisfied with the balance we have found, and so I would also like to say that the Radical Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118114659	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118114705	Thank you. SF is sympathetic to the possibility that manipulation of the external joints of the body will now also be extended to physiotherapists and alternative practitioners approved under the registered alternative treatment system, both because it will mean normalisation of the treatments that are taking place today in this area, but also because the obligation to offer to citizens is increasing. That is why we also agreed to the agreement in June. We have, of course, read the answers to the hearings, which express concern about the legal status of patients in the area of compensation. It is, of course, crucial that patients, as with other health treatments, are guaranteed compensation for damage that should not occur. It is therefore important that we clarify the scope for insurance in the next committee. One possibility could be a division of the proposal so that the activities of the physiotherapists in the field are legalized. Physiotherapists, in particular, already have the technical conditions in place. In relation to organisations that have expressed concern about whether physiotherapists and alternative practitioners have sufficient experience of manipulation, we must, on the one hand, insist that foreign experience does not immediately suggest that we should have such restrictive legislation as we have today, and, on the other, that the bill includes the requirement that doctors, physiotherapists and registered alternative practitioners with manual treatment training should be followed annually in the complaint and compensation system and in the insurance companies respectively. If the feedback from the complaint system and the insurance companies then shows that there are problems in extending the scope for manipulation treatment, then we must, of course, look again at the legislation. With these comments, the SF will vote in favour of the proposal L 47.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118114906	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we move on to Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118114913	Thank you. I always come here like the raisin at the end of the sausage, how many good things have been said, but I will nevertheless take the time to explain in detail why we in the Conservative People's Party support this bill. Today, we are taking the first step in the last part of history, which is about who can perform manipulation treatment, and let me start by saying that we in the Conservative People's Party are very pleased with the result we have achieved, and we would like to take the opportunity to thank the Minister and the other conciliation parties for the result that we have achieved together. We've been working on this law for almost three years, all stones have turned, and this has meant that we have made a political agreement with all the parties of the Folketing, with the exception of the Social Democracy. In view of this, I would also ask that, when it comes to committees immediately after the first reading, the matter be dealt with quickly so that we can have it dealt with before Christmas, as it is a matter of agreement. I can also say now that I would like to ask that the study from the Parker Institute and the consultation answers from Danish Physiotherapists and from Body SDS be printed as an annex to the legal notes, because I think this is crucial for understanding the matter. Manipulation treatment is nothing new. In fact, it is one of the oldest forms of treatment, and that means putting hands on it. For centuries it was the doctors who stood in front, and later physiotherapists and chiropractors arrived. But there have also always been many unauthorized alternative practitioners who have laid their hands on people who have suffered pain in one or the other part of their body. There's nothing new about that. With the bill, we give all alternative as authorised practitioners the right to manipulate the peripheral joints of the body, joint mobilisation of the back and the peripheral joints and soft tissue treatment of the body. In addition, we allow registered and alternative practitioners and authorised healthcare professionals, who also meet the requirements required to become registered alternative practitioners, to manipulate the spine. The requirement is that they have a minimum of 250 hours of training in manual processing, and thus, for example, Body SDS processors can continue their work. In order to ensure patients, we have chosen to require registered alternative practitioners who wish to manipulate the spine to have compulsory liability insurance to cover damage caused by the treatment. I am aware that there has been some uncertainty here, but I would just like to say that I am pleased to have received a statement from the Minister that, if there is no solution with the insurance industry, we will come back together in the conciliation circle and look at how we can deal with this problem. With the bill, we also clarify the legal status of physiotherapists, and I use the word deliberately to clarify. For I understand that until 2013 the Danish Health Authority actually also thought that physiotherapists might be allowed to perform manipulation treatment, but this interpretation of the Authorization Act was changed in the Danish Health Authority, which of course has created very great uncertainty among physiotherapists. With this bill, the Folketing once again gives physiotherapists the right to manipulate the spine without further educational requirements. The Conservative People's Party supports this bill for three reasons. Firstly, we have been presented with the latest literature review carried out by the Parker Institute at Bispebjerg and Frederiksberg Hospitals. The study, which was conducted in January of this year and thus is the latest literature study in this area, shows that the possible relationship between joint manipulation and patient injury is very, very small. In addition, the relationship, i.e. the causal relationship between manipulation and injury, is uncertain. So there can be no certainty as to the link between manipulation and damage caused. In this context, I also think there is reason to mention that the Danish Health Authority and the Board for Patient Safety recognise that there is no knowledge of a link between level of education, profession, and risk factor for manipulation treatment. Secondly, we have obtained a list of compensations for patients who have been paid by the patient's replacement on the basis of manipulation treatment, and it shows that in 15 years there have been a total of 48 cases in which only one is concerned with a physiotherapist who has not had the profession in order. In comparison, there have been four cases of chiropractors and five cases of doctors. At the same time, we have been informed that no compensation has been paid to patients who have received treatment at Body SDS, as has already been mentioned. Thirdly, we are impressed by the fact that Denmark has the sovereignly most restrictive guidelines in this area, which I also mentioned in my question to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Some people have questioned whether we in the Folketing are playing scientists with this bill and whether we are risking patient safety. The answer is no, and that is why I can say with eight seconds of my speaking time that we in the Conservative People's Party warmly support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118115417	That was a good time. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the Minister for Health and the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118115425	Thank you for that, President. Then we'll see if I can do it. I would like to thank you for the debate and for the comments made by the rapporteurs on the draft law, which aims to change the reserved area of activities of chiropractors. At the same time, I would also like to thank the broad majority of Parliament's parties, an almost unanimous Parliament, for the good and constructive cooperation we have had on the legislative proposal, and also for the many positive words that the rapporteurs have given the process along the way here today. With the discussion of the legislative proposal in this Chamber today, it is not the case that a whole lot of new or surprising comments and comments have been made, not even by the Socialist rapporteur. It is not the case that all parties except the Social Democratic Party now with the bill have chosen to completely override patient safety in Denmark. On the contrary, as a number of rapporteurs have already explained, there are a number of studies on the subject which were last included. the study from the Parker Institute, which shows that the incidence of serious damage to manipulation treatment is very low. In the course of the process, we have also looked at the European countries with which we usually compare ourselves, and we can see from the feedback from those countries that Denmark belongs to those countries that have the most restrictive legislation, in relation to which groups, in relation to the legislation, have to carry out manual treatment, including manipulation of the spine. I must say that it has been virtually impossible to find a single country in Europe and overseas English-speaking countries which have a reserved business area for chiropractors. So it is not the case today that we are changing the legislation, so we are doing something that is completely unknown in relation to how other countries, including other countries' health authorities, are dealing with this area. Nor is it as the radical rapporteur said in his speech that we are going out tomorrow and changing what reality looks like. On the contrary, it has to be said that the legislative proposal here brings the legislation into line with what is today's reality. At the same time, in order to ensure that we strengthen the patient safety aspect, we have ensured with the bill that a number of conditions are attached to the ability of registered alternative practitioners to manipulate the spine. Firstly, the registered alternative treatment provider must have a minimum of 250 hours of instruction in manual treatment. Secondly, the registered alternative treatment provider must have liability insurance that can cover damage caused by the treatment. Thirdly, the business carried out by chiropractors, physiotherapists, registered alternative practitioners and authorised health professionals, who are also alternative practitioners, must be followed annually in the complaint and compensation system and through insurance companies. Monitoring of the system is therefore also an important element, since it gives us the opportunity to take action if the system is not working optimally. I hope that the draft law will receive good consideration in committee, and I naturally make myself available to answer all the questions that the committee may have on the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118115757	There is one brief comment from Mrs Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118115803	Thank you. I would like to thank the Minister for the very good cooperation we have had in this matter. I would also just like to ask the Minister to confirm here that, like the official papers, I would have liked to say that if we do not reach a solution with Insurance & Pension in relation to this particular insurance scheme that we are now legally demanding, then of course we will come together again in the conciliation circle to deal with that problem so that the agreement in its spirit can remain in force.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118115829	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118115832	I would like to confirm that, in order to keep a leash on the matter, as it were, by 1 April 2017, we are taking stock of whether there are insurance companies that will offer insurance that meets the requirements of the bill. Then I have to say that I am, for example. the Socialist rapporteur said something about the fact that it is strange that at first reading we are not finally clear about something as essential as insurance. It was no wonder that we introduced in the Folketing a duty to replace private hospitals, which, moreover, the Social Democratic Party helped to adopt at that time. That's when they said, "All right, now we're gonna do this." And no, there was no insurance for that product. Afterwards, it was necessary to invent this so that it was ensured that it was possible to insure itself. So what you think is strange today was no wonder when you were in government. However, I would like to confirm to the Conservative rapporteur that we are, of course, following this. I cannot guarantee that there will be a solution, but I can guarantee that we have a constructive dialogue with Insurance & Pension to find a solution, and I am so confident.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118115938	There are no more questions, so thank you to the Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161118120000	Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Employment (Jørn Neergaard Larsen): Bill no. L 86 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Unemployment Insurance, etc.) Minister for Children, Education and Gender Equality (Ellen Trane Nørby): Bill no. L 87 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Production Schools. Bill No. L 88 (Proposal for a law amending the Law on secondary schools and free vocational schools. Bill No. L 89 (Proposal for a law amending the Law on adult preparatory and dyslexic education for adults. Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs (Lars Christian Lilleholt): Bill no. L 90 (Proposal for a law amending the Law on electricity supply, the Law on the Promotion of Renewable Energy, the Law on the Safety of Electrical Installations, Electrical Installations and Electrical Equipment (the Law on Electrical Safety) and repealing the Law on the Subsidies for the Promotion of Renewable Energy in Business Production Processes. Bill No. L 91 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Promotion of Renewable Energy. The legislative proposals will only be available on the Danish Parliament's website from today kl. 17.00. There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 22 November 2016, at 3 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. I would also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which is also shown on the Danish Parliament's website.
