ParlaMint-DK_20160412130018	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Pernille Skipper (EL) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 178 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the right to post-protection for women affected by violence following a stay in shelters). Finn Sørensen (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 179 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on improving the early retirement scheme), motion for a resolution No. Β 180 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on improving procedures and improving conditions for long-term illness), motion for a resolution No. Β 181 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the easing of the conditions for granting early retirement), motion for a resolution No. Β 182 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the modification of the system of resources), motion for a resolution No. Β 183 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the improvement of the flex-job system) and motion for a resolution No. B 184 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the strengthening of rehabilitation efforts). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20160412130126	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request?
ParlaMint-DK_20160412130230	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412130236	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. In favour, 111 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The proposal has been adopted unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412130327	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412130333	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. In favour of voting 90 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT and CF), against 13 (EL and SF), abstentions 5 (RV). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412130424	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412130430	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. In favour 108 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412130510	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendments has ended and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412130522	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1-5 by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing, as adopted. They are adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412130536	The negotiations then concern the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the bill? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412130542	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. In favour of 87 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 22 (DF), abstention 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412130635	The debate is primarily about the proposed amendment. Does anyone wish to speak? Here you go, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, and that is about the amendment.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412130646	Thank you. I would like to thank the Radicals, the SF and the Alternative for supporting our proposal and voting in favour of a ban on the extraction of shale gas in Denmark. We find it gratifying that we have come this far. Last Enhedslisten put forward the proposal, we were alone in favour of a stop. If you look at the energy policy we have in Denmark and the energy reconciliation we have from 2012 to 2020, you can see that it is completely without shale gas. After all, we have objectives that we can make the sustainable transition up to 100 per cent. renewable energy without shale gas. There's no reason for this to stagger. We are waiting for Total to report on their failed test drilling in North Jutland, and as soon as it is available we will take the matter up again and try to see if there can be a majority in the Folketing that will adopt a stop to shale gas. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank those citizens and associations in North Jutland who have been very persistent and defended the environment and drilled into this matter. They have always asked the good questions and conducted a campaign in a very sober way, in a very North Jutland way, and it is nice to see that there can be such a force even in those areas of Denmark that are sparsely populated. I think that in the near future the members of the Danish Parliament will have a good opportunity to vote according to the same conviction as they had in the election campaign, and it will be interesting to see whether some of the North Jutland members who during the election campaign had strong positions against shale gas will also support Enhedslisten's proposal to say stop to shale gas extraction in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412130822	It was, of course, a discussion of the amendment, but I think it went beyond that, so it became of the whole proposal. Does anyone have any comments on the amendment? There isn't. That concludes the debate on the amendment and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412130838	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 by a minority (EL), elected by a majority (the other committee)? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412130852	The debate is now about the proposal as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the proposal? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412130858	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. In favour of 24 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), 87 abstentions (S, DF, V, LA and KF) voted in favour and against. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412130940	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412130948	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412131018	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412131023	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (DF, EL, ALT and SF) and voting is possible. The vote is closed. In favour of voting 41 (DF, EL, ALT and SF), against 69 (S, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 2 and 3 of the same minority, lapsed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412131140	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. We're gonna need some quiet in the hall. There are actually matters on the agenda and even to vote if anyone wants a vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412131205	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412131235	The debate is open. It's the Attorney General first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412131245	The motion for a resolution proposes that the government be required to submit the necessary legislative proposals to establish a publicly available register of ministers' meetings with external actors, including lobbyists, associations and companies. The government cannot support the motion for a resolution. I would, of course, like to clarify and justify this. Following the motion for a resolution, ministers must register meetings with all external actors. The proposal raises a number of questions. How should we define when it is a meeting? Are all meetings of a minister to be recorded, including party meetings? And what is meant by external players? I am aware that it will probably be said that we must work to define this, but I believe that this question helps to illustrate the problems raised by the motion for a resolution. In addition, in my view, it raises some more fundamental questions about the public in the work of ministers. The government agrees that openness in the work of ministers is an important consideration, but there must be a balance. On the one hand, citizens and businesses have an interest in gaining insight into what a minister is doing and what has formed the basis for a decision. On the other hand, there are others. the need to protect political decision-making processes. It is necessary for a minister to be able to hold meetings without there being any obligation to register it. This is true, for example. meetings with other politicians. There is also a concern to take into account the privacy of a minister. As a minister, you are a public person and there is not always a clear line between the activities of a minister as part of the minority profession and those of parties or individuals. However, a minister, like other people, must have a legitimate expectation that the Minister's privacy will be respected. The Enhedslisten's proposals for the registration and publication of ministers' meetings can in many ways be compared to the complete publication of ministers' calendars. Until 2009, the relevant Public Access Act allowed access to some information in the ministerial calendars. However, it has never been the rule that ministers' calendars have been fully publicly available in their entirety. In 2009, a broad majority of Parliament's parties decided to completely exempt ministers' calendars from public access to documents. The reason for excluding calendars from public access to documents was the consideration of the Minister's privacy and to ensure the calendar as a necessary practical planning tool. This provision has been extended by the new Public Procurement Act. A broad majority of the Folketing has thus found that these considerations continue to apply. At the same time, in the context of the exclusion of ministers' calendars from public access to documents, a broad political agreement was reached on a transparency mechanism for the expenditure and activities of ministers. The transparency mechanism requires each ministry to publish monthly information on the representation costs of the Minister, mission expenses, gifts received, official representative events and official activities. The transparency system therefore means that ministers must pass on a wide range of information unsolicited and on a regular basis. The Enhedslisten has among other things: justified the proposal to register ministerial meetings with voters entitled to know who is trying to influence political decision-making processes. It is an important part of the democratic decision-making process that citizens, organisations and businesses can exchange ideas and views with the Minister. This knowledge sharing contributes to the Minister's ability to take decisions on an informed basis. However, contact with the Minister may not be limited to meetings. This is happening equally in other ways, for example. phoney, via letters, via emails or on social networks. There is also an exchange of these views when the Minister is invited to a company visit or takes part in debates. Furthermore, a register as proposed would not include meetings of lobbyists with members of parliament. A register of ministers' meetings with lobbyists will therefore not give a true picture of who is trying to influence political decision-making processes. Against this background, it is the Government's view that the disadvantages associated with registering ministerial meetings are not outweighed by the purpose of such registration. In addition, there are the delimitation difficulties which I began by making a comment on, and which I think will be quite great. Against this background, therefore, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412131659	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Skipper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412131704	First of all, I should like to note that the Minister has a lot of problems with definitions and that, by the way, it is not all that will be open about. There are many, many problems with this that simply cannot be done. In the Enhedslisten, we are quite open to going back to the original openness where you can have access to ministers' calendars, except, of course, what is of a private nature. So the Minister could of course answer whether the Minister thought it was a solution. Since there are so many problems with opening up just a little bit, you could open up completely. That was one question. The next question is: did I hear correctly that the Minister thought that there was not always a clear line between privacy, party life and the office of minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20160412131802	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412131804	As president of the National Association against Openness, I just want to point out that if I do something, I'll open it. I'm not backing backwards either. But leave it for a moment. As regards going back to the previous legal situation, I can just say that the government has no desire to do so. It doesn't. But that is not what has been proposed in the motion for a resolution either. As far as the second part is concerned, what is meant by this is that, in principle, you are a minister 24 hours a day, regardless of what, and, of course, there will be some transitions where you can ask yourself when what is what. There are no clear cut legal boundaries to that. You can, for example. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if we want to move into such considerations that ministerial cars, for example, are carrying. Ministers for party national meetings etc., so of course those borders are not always square.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412131905	Pernille Skip.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412131908	I am sorry, but it seems to me as if it is a bad excuse, because these are some boundaries we draw all the time, between privacy, ministerial duties and the party. In all sorts of areas we draw these lines. By the way, we are not the only country that draws these lines, and we are not the only place where we are discussing openness about such things, and elsewhere in the world we are making it work. So, no matter what form it takes, is not a little excuse for not wanting this kind of openness and discussing whether it is desirable or not for the public to gain insight into it when a minister meets with lobbyists? Whether it is good or bad, it is well desirable that it is clear to the electorate who a minister meets and who a minister is affected by • as far as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412132003	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412132005	I actually thought I said it very well. We believe that it will give a false, untrue picture of what Mrs Pernille Skip claims to want. That is what I am explaining, namely the confusion that it will cause, for example. Only the fact that members of parliament will not be in that situation, but that ministers are. After all, ministers already have a list of transparency, how many things will be published. This government is satisfied with the current state of affairs in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412132031	Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten, for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412132034	I cannot quite understand why the Minister is ashamed of the people he meets with. What would happen if it became available on a calendar? That's quite common information that should be there. And I know nothing has happened to the old rules of openness. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412132050	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412132051	Well, I understand that sir. Christian Juhl doesn't understand. But I can only say that I believe that there is a need to meet with the political representatives in peace and happiness, as you wish, without necessarily having to show it in your calendar. I just explained why I think so. I think that, in the end, it serves democracy in that it becomes workable and that we can deliver results that are what we really need to do. There may well be tense situations where it serves an excellent purpose. So there's really nothing to understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412132124	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412132125	I did not hear one specific example of where this would be a problem. In other words, we are moving in a field of tension in which the Minister believes that it is an advantage for democracy to have some closed meetings that no one else knows and where we are some who think that it is an advantage for democracy that there are no closed meetings and when I say closed meetings, I mean not known meetings. And when we see in Europe how abuses of power and money are flowing together, it is perhaps a good idea to have clear lines with the Danish ministers and to say that we have no problem with the open lobby lists.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412132204	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412132206	I do not participate in Enhedslisten's suspicion of the least corrupt country in the world. I think we have found a rewarding and good, also in its places pragmatic way, in which the people have basic confidence that at least that part of the political spectrum is in fact nothing wrong with. There are other places where you take much harder hold. I'm not taking part in that suspicion. I simply do not agree that more square, more effective, more stringent rules would serve any purpose other than, in fact, to destroy the opportunities we have for sensible cooperation, including the need for cooperation with other political parties and also for the privacy of individual officials.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412132250	Thank you, Minister. Then we go to the rapporteur's line, and that is Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412132306	With this proposal, the proposers will require the government to put forward the necessary legislative proposals to establish a publicly available lobby register of ministers' meetings with external actors, including lobbyists, associations and companies. May I not start by saying that I think it is absolutely crucial that we, as politicians, have a good dialogue with interest groups and actors outside Christiansborg. It makes our democracy strong that we do not shut ourselves down and believe that we know best about everything in here. That is why it is also positive when organisations are knocking on our door and asking for meetings. Their kicks can quite often qualify the political decisions and actualize future legislative proposals. They may be the basis for new proposals, or they may be kicks that cannot be used because of ideological differences. However, contact with reality and with organisations of interest, companies and others is, in my view, extremely important, as is the case with ministers. Denmark is characterised by a high degree of openness about ministers' meetings and to-dos. It is relatively easy to set up a meeting with a minister, and we should be proud of that. We have a strong press that would like to report contacts between ministers and stakeholder groups. A lobby register will give a risk that meetings between ministers and stakeholders will not be held, perhaps because stakeholders will not register, or perhaps because in headlines it may look inappropriate to the Minister, why the meeting is not held at all, and good incentives for new legislation or the like will not be given. It may also mean that meetings move out of the ministries and are held elsewhere. The proposal also raises some issues, because what do you do when a minister meets for Christmas lunch with old colleagues? Should it be recorded in a register? Or what if the Minister is related to people who work for an organisation or company? This scenario is not exactly unrealistic. Should the birthday of children also be registered because there was, in principle, a meeting between a minister and a lobbyist? We Socialists cannot support the proposal. We therefore agree that ministers should be kept under review and that they should respect their powers, but we disagree that there should be greater distance between ministers and reality outside the ministries.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412132550	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412132555	I'd like to ask you something. For I am very much in agreement with what Mrs Trine Bramsen says. I think it is really, really good if ministers meet with interest groups and everything, and it is just super, and it may be that I have come to write a wrong proposal and it may be a mistake. But where in this proposal does it say that it should be forbidden to hold meetings with stakeholders or, for that matter, professional lobbyists?
ParlaMint-DK_20160412132631	Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412132632	I am not aware of this in the proposal, but I am pointing out in my rapporteur's speech the inappropriateness of the Enhedslisten's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412132642	Mrs. Pernille Skip.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412132642-2	It just sounded as if it were the fears of the Social Democrats that all interest groups and lobbyists would be lost if their meetings with ministers were open, so that they would no longer talk to the Minister at all, that they would no longer tell the Minister what it looks like in the real world, or how the stakeholders and companies they represent as lobbyists look at things, and that they would no longer have that influence at all. I think that is just an interesting idea, because it was not something we experienced when there was actually the openness of ministers' calendars, or when we look at all sorts of other countries. So what do you think you're basing it on?
ParlaMint-DK_20160412132725	Mrs. Trine Bramsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412132726	I think it was a fantasy, because it did not appear from my speech that this proposal would mean that there would be no meetings at all. On the other hand, I pointed out a number of inappropriateities and places where problems could arise in defining whether or not to register it and, above all, that there could be some organisations with which the Minister has an interest in meeting, but that this meeting simply does not materialise because one or the other party does not want it to give bad headlines.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412132757	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412132801	I do not take part in the suspicion of people, of course I do not. It was a fantastic remark that we received from the Minister. But my experience tells me that there are differences of interest in this society. There are economic interests, and if you have a lot of money, you sometimes try to influence people. We know that here in the Danish Parliament there is a party which for the first many years was financed by one large capital bank, one large capital bank, and I should be surprised if a number of bank managers have not visited various ministers. We know that, no matter how well a society works. Why shouldn't the voters know that you meet with banks and others, such as the United States? trade unions for that matter? Why should it not be open and clear? What is it you want to hide just because you are a party that may sometimes be in government?
ParlaMint-DK_20160412132857	Mrs. Trine Bramsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412132859	The questioner asks a really interesting question, and it is a really interesting example that is being used. For the example of the large bank, which financed a party in the Folketing, we have precisely from the press. So my claim would be that this information is already digging in a press, whereas there may be a number of inappropriates associated with having to register in a compulsive manner all the people you talk to.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412132928	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412132930	Well, wouldn't it be okay for me as a citizen or for that matter as a member of the Folketing to be able quietly to go to the present minister and say: Well, who have you had visitors of the last 14 days; I know that rules have been negotiated for banks? And then I had that knowledge. I do not need to ask the press that perhaps has a coloured view of things. I could go over that myself and ask, and soberly state: yes, they have had visitors. Well, fine, then I'll ask the minister some specific questions this week. That would then be an extension of democracy and not a restriction. I simply do not understand the idea that this should be a restriction of democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412133009	Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412133010	First of all, I would like to add something in relation to the economics: it is another place we are discussing it, because it is about the publication of financial subsidies. On the specific question, I would say that there is nothing to prevent a minister from asking questions about who the minister in question has met. And if the minister in question does not want to answer that, then I would interpret it as meaning that there is something woolly about it, and then you can dig further into it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412133036	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412133045	Thank you. The Danish People's Party was not one of the parties that voted for the previous government's updating of the so-called Public Act. We were strongly opposed to the smokescreen that was laid over our democracy. Normally we pride ourselves on having a democracy of the finest carat, and we can do that without lying. But just as the top of the victorious palate, it takes effort to remain a democracy in the superliga. The Publicity Act of 2013 did no good to our democracy, on the contrary, and therefore the Danish People's Party will also support this resolution, as it counteracts some of the sad consequences of the Publicity Act for our democracy. However, it should be pointed out here that certain meetings should not be included in the proposal in the interests of the security of the empire. Having openness about which external parties a minister meets is not a barrier to political work. If you cannot defend or explain that you have chosen to hold a meeting with an outside party, you should probably not have held the meeting at first. So thank you to Enhedslisten for taking this initiative. I hope that the proposal will find broad support. I look forward in particular to hearing from the so-called self-appointed transparency troika, the SF, the Radicals and the Conservatives. Now is the time to show whether you are lions or lambs.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412133222	You don't address the Members directly. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412133228	I think I should thank you for your support. I think I can understand some things about the security of the realm, but will the rapporteur try to clarify it? That is a rather interesting question, because I could at least agree with some of the points. But for those things, we have special organisations and committees, for example. Foreign policy Name.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412133251	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412133253	It is not inconceivable that one can imagine, for example, that one can imagine. at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or at the Ministry of Defence meet about Denmark's relations with other nations that do not tolerate the same degree of publicity as ordinary meetings do.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412133315	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412133317	Unfortunately, I have to admit that. I'd rather see a world where it wasn't necessary. But okay, if that's the kind of thing, there's no problem in getting it incorporated.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412133329	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412133331	Yes, we can agree on that. I'm glad.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412133334	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412133338	Thank you. I should like to begin by saying that I am also speaking on behalf of the Conservative People's Party, which was unable to participate today because of other political work. That's what happens when you're not so many elected here. The bill requires the government to submit the necessary legislative proposals to establish a publicly available lobby register of ministers' meetings with external actors, including lobbyists, associations and companies. In the text before us, the proposal raises a number of problems of demarcation: what is an external player? When is this a meeting? When is this a conversation? Is it a meeting or a conversation if the minister meets someone out here in the hallway? It's gonna be a little hard to define, I'd say. And what about party meetings with colleagues and the like, is it also something that is suddenly about to be publicly available? I think that's a bad idea. Previous speakers have outlined that issues of private meetings can also cause problems of demarcation. Should there not also be publicity about meetings held elsewhere, telephone calls and the like? I would say that meetings are really only a small selection of the contact and contact that the Minister has with the outside world and which, moreover, we think is a good idea he has for the outside world. The decision-making process ends basically in the Parliamentary Chamber, and there we have to say that nobody has the opportunity to look into the calendar. On behalf of the Left, I do not share the suspicion expressed by the proposal. It is clear from the text of the proposal that, especially when top politicians and ministers switch work from being ministers to being employed by lobbying companies that have had a relationship with the ministerial job, it can create suspicion of impure trotting. It creates politicians' distrust. I have to say that I think this is a very serious round. I must say that I have no basis for declaring mistrust or politicians based on the behaviour of current ministers or, for that matter, of former ministers in these areas. There are plenty of other reasons why people have what they might call politicians. One of the reasons for this may be that in the next proposal we may be discussing the fact that many people are sitting here for too long in the opinion of the public. Then you could say that they could vote them out. I must then give the cadeau to Enhedslisten that you have a rotation system so you avoid it. In fact, this proposal is an amendment to section 22 of the Public Procurement Act, and I would urge the proposer to include it in the discussion of amendments to the Public Procurement Act. On this basis, I can at least say that the Left cannot support the proposal, and the same applies, as I said, to the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412133652	Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412133657	I know that there were no problems with the old law, in which, moreover, the Left restricted transparency. Why on earth should it be limited when we live in a time when there is a need for greater insight and openness everywhere?
ParlaMint-DK_20160412133709	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412133711	In other words, there has in no way been any change in the public law at this point in the last revision. It was a change that took place back in 2009, so I see no basis for changing anything in that relationship.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412133728	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412133731	Then it was also the Left that changed the law last time, in 2009, and it was a stupid thing to do then. I believe that the rapporteur does not even recognise that there are economic interests in a society and that there may be interests also for a minister in business and things and therefore it may be a very good idea that there are public and accessible lists of who the minister is talking to so that everyone can feel safe about it. It's okay for them to talk. I don't think anyone would mind, but it might be a very good idea for there to be a little openness in the Left, so that you could also see what they are doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412133808	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412133809	I take note that the questioner believes that the Left made a stupid vote in 2009. I have to take it to the group, even when the Public Service Act is to be re-examined. In relation to whether it is a good or a bad idea with calendars in general, I would like to say that the Minister is, after all, accountable to the Danish Parliament and is accountable, as the Social Democrat rapporteur, for example, for questions in this Chamber. And there you have every opportunity to find out what the background was. In addition, there is a committee procedure which also allows questions to be asked.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412133847	Mrs. Pernille Skipper, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412133848	Thank you. I would like to ask two questions if we can accommodate it. One is the Conservative People's Party. I understand that the rapporteur speaks on behalf of the Conservative People's Party. Does the rapporteur have any idea why the Conservative People's Party is opposed to this, since the Conservative People's Party is in favour of abolishing section 22 of the Public Service Act, which the rapporteur himself refers to, which would mean that there was full access to the ministers' calendars? 'Cause those two things are really driving around my head a little bit. That is one question. The next question is to the rapporteur himself: does the rapporteur agree that it is a fundamental premise in a democratic society that the executive, that is. Mr President-in-Office of the Council. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the President-in-Office of the Council for his reply. Does the rapporteur and the Left agree with the fundamental principle?
ParlaMint-DK_20160412133953	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412133954	In relation to the Conservative People's Party, I think Mrs Pernille Skipper is well aware of my situation. Having said that, I was also speaking on behalf of the Conservative People's Party, I must admit that I have not been given the authority to clarify the party's position on the Public Service Act and its details. So I can't answer that. In relation to whether I think public opinion is a good thing in the process here in the Folketing, and as far as the ministers are concerned, I would say that the transparency rule is, of course, a very clear example of the openness of these processes, and I fully agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412134031	Mrs. Pernille Skip.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412134033	Thank you. I didn't ask if the public was a good thing. I asked whether we could not agree that controlling the executive as an important leg in the division of power is a task for the Folketing, which is really, really important. If we are to be able to lift it as Things, we need, among other things, a degree of openness about how power is exercised and the two things are very different. In other words, the work of the Folketing is one thing, and the executive is another thing, and there is therefore a certain degree of openness which is required for us to be able to control the executive. Doesn't the Left agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160412134117	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412134119	Yes, the Folketing controls the executive power. Parliament controls the ministers, and we have ample opportunity to do so. I think that, in particular, the Enhedslisten knows the most widely used option, namely to call the ministers in consultation on everything. There should certainly be no criticism for this, but it is one of the ways in which the Folketing can control the executive power, and we are fully satisfied with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412134144	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412134158	I have some doubts as to why the Enhedslisten has put forward this proposal, and that is because of the comments on the proposal. On the one hand, it may be because you really want a lobby register; on the other hand, it may be a kind of desperation to find another solution when you cannot have an ideal public law. After all, we very much agree with the Enhedslisten that the current public law or cover-up law, as one should rightly call it, is highly problematic. We have agreed that paragraphs 22, 24 and 27 should be amended, and we are still fully behind this. However, we are not in favour of a proposal for a lobby register. In relation to the legislation that existed until the blackout law was adopted, it was possible to gain insight into calendars backwards. That is still our position, because then you can see whether there has been a meeting of relevant parties in the matter that you are now going to investigate, and then you can sort of get something out of it. We have a little more difficulty in detailing what the purpose of a lobby register is, unless the purpose is that you cannot get what you want, and then try to get something that nevertheless draws a little in the same direction, perhaps. Because if you didn't get the calendars, maybe you could try this. If that is the background, then I am very sympathetic to the fact that the proposal has been put forward, although I do not wish to support the proposal. And it is because I think it makes sense that you can see what the ministers have done, but I have a little difficulty in seeing what kind of openness it really gives, with such an infinity list in terms of insight into the work It may be that Enhedslisten will make us wiser, but immediately we would rather have the clean model. It is to be hoped that the troika, as Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen mentioned earlier, either gets the arm of their two big conciliation parties wrung around and apologized to Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen: a larger and a medium-sized conciliation party or that they are so clever that they do not allow themselves to be ensnared by the two traditional prime minister parties, thereby increasing the likelihood that there will be a majority in the Folketing after a forthcoming parliamentary elections that will make the blackout law a public law again.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412134505	Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412134510	Thank you, I think, to the rapporteur. At least it was entertaining. Well, to the point. I think that this is a very real question put by the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, i.e. whether it is because we cannot have what is even better. Yeah, I guess so. Well, would we wish that Article 22 of the Public Act had disappeared as a dew to the sun? Yes, so that you could get the full insight into the calendars, both the disposition of the time, with whom you have held meetings etc. However, the lobby register can also do something that insights into a calendar cannot do so, that one cannot bypass the openness of who has met with, by e.g. to write something else into the calendar. I mean, you're legally obliged to give up who you've been meeting with on this list. However, I find it a little difficult to understand the Liberal Alliance's argument, that because this is not the wish model of the Liberal Alliance, you don't want it, but that it's a little good or what? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412134621	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412134625	It can be said that if I wanted to go to Paris and Mrs Pernille Skipper suggested to me that we could start driving to Amsterdam and then we could see if the trip went on to Paris, I would have come a bit off the road, and wasn't it good? And there you could say: yes, I suppose that would be a good thing. And then you could say yes to it. But Mrs Pernille Skipper could also say to me instead: should we not go to Minsk, and then perhaps we will also come to Paris once, but we are not really going towards Paris? And that's kind of what I see with this proposal. I understand that you want to do something that you think is better than what is today, but I am just not quite sure that it is going in the direction that I would like to take myself. I would like transparency on the calendars, on the agreements that have been made. That's what I want. And I am not sure that I necessarily increase the likelihood of getting that wish through by voting in favour of this proposal. And then there's the thing about: Uh, a lobby register because when you know Enhedslisten, what's next? I think this is the way to apply it to members of parliament, and we are strongly opposed to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412134735	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll doesn't she have another question? ) Yes, Mrs. Pernille Skipper does. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412134744	Thank you. I can reassure you, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll: We are not on our way to Minsk, we are on our way to Paris. It's also warmer and everything else. I am not sure I understand the objection of the Liberal Alliance here. I mean, it's very clear what it is that's being said yes to here. What is being said 'yes' is that ministers must give it up and publish it when they have met with lobbyists and interest groups, etc. That is something you see in other countries, and that is something you can easily delineate. This means that there is some openness. But it is clear that if what the Liberal Alliance wants to achieve with the calendar rule is not openness about who ministers are meeting with, but something else, then it may be that we are on our way to Minsk. But do we not agree that the calendar rule is just bad because we want to know who the ministers are meeting with?
ParlaMint-DK_20160412134837	Thank you. It's nice for me up here, if you remember to get in touch with the other question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412134845	Thank you. I mean, this day has already gotten better than I thought it would be, because now I am on my way with Mrs Pernille Skipper to Paris, and that is something we can only welcome. However, if we are to go back to the substance, I would like to say that we would like to have transparency about what meetings there have been, so that we can gain insight into the fact that the Minister has met 20 times with Mrs Pernille Skip and that it is therefore Mrs Pernille Skipper or an interest organisation or a company, or who I know has had a particular influence. If it just becomes such a list of who you have met with, then it does not really give the real insight into what has really happened, that is, what has happened, how much there has been and when it has been there. Sometimes you can pull the blanket aside so little that you get too bad an insight into what's happening. And that's what we mean by this proposal. So we'd like to pull the rug a little more out to the sides, and we hope we can do that together with Enhedslisten at some point.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412134949	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412135003	With this resolution, the government is required to amend the legislation so that ministers are required by law to publish a register of meetings and contacts with professional lobbyists and other external actors, for example. organisations, trade unions, etc. The amendment of the Public Procurement Act in 2009 and the adoption of the new Public Procurement Act in 2013 abolished the possibility of access to ministers' calendars. In this way, the public was prevented from gaining insight into which external actors affect the political process. It is important to emphasise that input from external actors, such as stakeholder organisations and the like, is crucial for our political work. We also know that meetings are held every day both in the ministries and here in the Folketing. We all have meetings with external actors, and that is very, very good. And the external players are trying to influence the political process, while at the same time making us who sit in this Parliament wiser. And there's nothing wrong with that, it's more like really, really good. We need as many inputs as possible to find out what is moving in the real world. We need the knowledge provided by external actors. Having said that, we also need openness. Democracy needs openness, and that is why, in line with the proposers, the alternative believes that openness is a premise for a well-functioning democracy. And openness is one of the main pillars of creating confidence in the political system and that there is confidence in us as politicians. And that is why it is fundamentally important in a democracy that there should be transparency about the political processes, and that is why the alternative to the motion for a resolution on a lobby register is voting.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412135159	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412135215	One of the very special features of Danish democracy is that for decades, we have created a tradition that, when we make legislation when we regulate, we have a dialogue, a conversation, with those who are regulated and who feel the consequences of our legislation on their own body. The political conversation, which is very much taking place by the fact that all variants of the Danish society's actors from small citizens' groups, via wealthy environmental organisations such as Greenpeace, professional lobbying companies, ordinary Danish small companies, sugar producers, farmers, electric car manufacturers to trade unions or business organisations, all hands, big and small, low and high, come to Christiansborg, come to the ministries and talk about the legislation that will affect them. That's an amazing good. Long live the tradition, which is one of the reasons why Denmark is good at regulating, that Denmark is good at at at least proportionally better than many other countries to make legislation that doesn't quite miss. The lively dialogue, that dialogue, is absolutely essential to the Radical Left, and therefore we simply do not understand the Enhedslisten's proposal. The Radical Left does not understand at all what it is that we want to suspect or to degenerate in the fact that as politicians we are talking to as many as possible as long as possible. What's wrong with that? Why do you now have to register and spend a lot of hours and stuff and stuff on it? There's nothing wrong with that. So what is all about tracing from which political parties, ministers and politicians get their financial support, if they get it, we must have openness about, full openness! But as long as there are no financial interests attached to it, what on earth is the purpose of a ministerial lobby register? Why not talk to as many people as possible? Then there are all the practical problems that many have pointed out. If at last there was a minister who would be bribe what I don't have the imagination to imagine in this country, then you should probably find a way to do it. So what is really the point of not being able to talk to everyone you want at all the times you have of the day, whether they are on your calendar or a register or anywhere else? I simply do not understand where Enhedslisten is going with this proposal. We look forward to working together on everything that is about supporting proposals that will make it more open where political parties get their support, so that you as a citizen can see whether there is a connection between what you mean as a party or a politician and the support you have received. This is where there are some examples from the United States and from other countries that can intimidate and where it fills everything, too much and where lobbying is closely linked to the pursuit of economic interests and financial support for political parties and politicians. But as it is in Denmark, I have to say that I simply do not see the purpose of having to spend a lot of hours on the creation of registers. We tried it here in the Folketing. We found out that it was a rather hopeless task that took disproportionate resources and we all forgot to register it too. I'll meet with about. Twenty different types of people from outside a week. You're welcome to see my calendar. I simply do not understand for what purpose it should be that we should deal with this in the Things.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412135607	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412135609	I am terribly sorry that the Radicals have not understood our proposal; I am sorry about that. I would like to start by saying that there is absolutely nothing wrong with meeting a lot of people. Nor is there anywhere in the proposal we have put forward that we should not meet with stakeholders, trade unions, business leaders or anyone else. It does not even say that you should not meet professional lobbyists who are paid to influence politicians. It doesn't say that anywhere. It just says quite quietly that if you do it innocence, as it may be, the people have a right to know. In exactly the same way as Mr. Martin Lidegaard says that we should be able to see whether there is a connection between the money given to a party and the policy being pursued, so we think that we should be able to see it if there is a connection between the meetings being held and the policy being conducted. And it's not because there's something wrong with the meetings. It's just because we want the voters to have access to the insight. So why not just the insight? This is not a ban.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412135718	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412135720	Well, I just don't understand where Enhedslisten is going with this. It's very possible that you're affected. I'm being influenced by all the people I talk to, because otherwise you don't have a real conversation. It is not all of them that convince me to go in their direction, and often that is how I think we all, as politicians, are doing it. I try to hear all the parties in one matter, and some are pulling in one direction and others in the other. And this is such a vital part of my working day, such a vital part of what I understand about Danish democracy. So I do not understand why such a huge bureaucratic proposal should be put down, such a blanket over it, where you suddenly have to register it, every time you talk to someone somewhere, and feel that it is something you have to answer for. You just have to be very happy about that. What is interesting for the citizens is then what kind of attitude you end up with and why you have the attitude of whether you have created that conviction from an ideology; by a company one evening when you have met some exciting people; or by someone you have met with in an office. I mean, you can't be such an opinion or opinion police like that. What I think there is really reason to keep an eye on is whether there are any financial means, i.e. whether you are affected by the fact that you are getting money. I think the people have a right to know that. But the fact that there has to be such an opinion police watching who you meet with and where at all times of the day is just not in line with the way we perceive a free and living democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412135841	Mrs. Pernille Skip.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412135843	That is funny, because that is the argument we have, for example. the Left, when we discuss openness about party support: that nobody should interfere; that there is nothing disguised; that one should only be allowed to do so; that there is nothing wrong with getting any support; and that one does not necessarily form one's position on the basis of the money that one gets just because one gets money. Well, I cannot really understand that this is an attitude taken by Radicals. I thought it was a party that wanted openness. There is, of course, nothing suspicious in itself in openness. The only thing that is open is the control of those in power. Can't we agree on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160412135921	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412135923	It's funny, because I actually think it's a little suspicious, if it's to be imposed on all politicians... now the ministers are in this process... that every time they meet with another person, a company, an organization, any citizen of this society, they have to register it so that Enhedslisten can keep up with who you've met with. I think it is quite incomparable to receive financial support. I simply do not understand that comparison, because there can be a legitimate suspicion that some money is being given which then leads to a certain attitude. I understand that suspicion, and I believe that openness is the clear answer to that, because then you can keep track of what is going on. But if I meet with a green organization and they convince me that we should go a more environmentally friendly way, yes, so what? That is perfectly legitimate, there is no problem in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412140009	Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, Liberal Alliance, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412140011	It was exciting to hear an explanation of what the Radical Left thinks about party support and that sort of thing, but let us try to put it aside a little and try to deal with the openness that has to be in relation to the government because there I also understand that the Radical Left has moved over the past year and so I would like to hear: if we do not support this proposal, and so we agree with what initiatives do the Radical Left think should be taken to resolve the problems of openness around government and ministers?
ParlaMint-DK_20160412140043	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412140045	There have been, quite rightly, parts of the public law that we supported, which have not worked in the way we thought it would, and which have also gone too far in our view. One of the focus areas that we have had is that we have largely failed to apply the considerations of more public opinion contained in the law, i.e. the possibility that, even if there was no right of access or access to documents, if there was a particular public interest in it, access to documents which we do not think has been used sufficiently could still be given as an example of something we would like to look at. I'm guessing when mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll asks, it is because there is also something about access to calendars that, if you are finally going to make it, is a simpler and less bureaucratic way of gaining insight into it. We are now awaiting the joint review that all political parties must have in this area, and then we will try to look a little at what experience is, including with access to documents in this area, whether there has been openness or the opposite before we decide whether we also think that there should be a review in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412140150	Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll? Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412140157	I am pleased to hear that the Radicals have changed their attitude to the Public Service Act as I hear it, and would like to take a look at it. This is also one of the issues we think there are in relation to the fact that access to the calendars of ministers has been abolished. But I do not think that one is cutting oneself off from the other, and I am actually wondering why there is constant distrust and secrecy in this proposal, because that is not how we read it. Well, we support this proposal for the sake of transparency. It is interesting to see what meetings ministers have held and, for that matter, we would like to go further with members of parliament and see who they have held meetings with. This does not mean that we should not have meetings with as many people as possible, but it is of interest to the public. That is why I am just surprised when the rapporteur, like all the time, brings in something covert about it. Actually, I don't quite understand that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412140252	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412140253	That is because I am trying to find out what the authors of the motion for a resolution really are and obviously the alternative also wants to achieve with this. Now I know that the alternative, like us Radicals, is a party that often invites a lot of citizens into Christiansborg to try to develop politics. If this was true of parliamentary politicians, we have tried to do so, we have fortunately abolished it again, so I should register all the citizens who wanted to show up and have a political discussion with me, as lobbyists in a register and submit to some central authority somewhere. I see that as a little suspicious, because why? I think I can just say: why in the world make the trouble for a living democracy and for an open dialogue with citizens that anyone who wants to enter and have a dialogue with politicians should be registered? I simply do not understand what the purpose is. I understand there can be a purpose if money comes with it. Then I understand there's a purpose, but if it's just about talking, what's the problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20160412140352	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412140355	As I see it, the purpose is now to ask the rapporteur why it is to create openness about our democracy. That's interesting. After all, the rapporteur is one of 179 Members who is involved in influencing the policy of our society, and I think that many citizens find this interesting and would like to be able to follow. Now this proposal only goes to ministers who are even more in power, and that is why I think it is a good thing that we are trying to open up our work in this Parliament. So I guess I don't quite have the same concern. And then I think that bureaucratic challenges can really, really, easily be solved by means of new systems. I understand that this has been done before in this Parliament. I think you can solve that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412140439	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412140441	Openness is like freedom. It's hard to resist. I am also in favour of openness, but it is always necessary to explain if people who, by the way, have enough to attend to in their daily lives are required to do so, such an extra duty or an extra bureaucratic measure, with what purpose it is to do so. I would like to admit that, when I was a minister myself, I received a host of people and businesses and things and things when I was trying to form an opinion on one thing. I tried to get as many inputs as possible, and then I formed an attitude, but I find it very difficult to see it. If I were to try to make an inventory of all those I met 24 hours a day, who might have influenced my attitude somewhere, I got busy sneaking up. If someone was better at it than somebody else, then what's the problem? After all, I am responsible for my position in any case. As long as there is no money involved, it is probably interesting what the politicians think, what the minister thinks, and hold him to account for it, and not who he might have met at some point in the distant past.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412140543	Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412140546	I believe that everyone who is being checked thinks that this is an unpleasant suspicion. Sometimes it is justified, sometimes it is unjustified. I also think it is quite unpleasant for the people who, for example, are. Been a trip to Panama. I would also like to say that tax advisors, bankers and other people are just as busy every day. You cannot start apologizing and say that they should not be controlled. That's no excuse. I would like to know if the rapporteur knows the point: just get inside, there is nothing to hide here. It seems very offensive, whereas the defensive rapporteur's speech, which says that you should not interfere with this, is an opinion police, frankly seems very defensive and does not hold in the future. Does the rapporteur not agree with me on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20160412140642	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412140645	No, I don't really think my speech was very defensive. I actually thought it was a little offensive, because it asked in a radical manner: what good is this? What is the point of this proposal? I would like to thank you very much, Mr President. Christian Juhl, because he confirmed with surgical precision with his own language why Enhedslisten makes this proposal. We are talking about controlling politicians; we are talking about controlling bankers; it is obviously the sort of people you think are lobbyists and not all sorts of other ordinary people. And then it's comparable to Panama Papers. I mean, when I allow myself to meet with a citizens' group from North Zealand, it's like comparing with Panama Papers. That's where I think the chain is going to jump off completely. After all, there are no economic speculations or ties between me and the citizens' groups that I had to meet with both as a parliamentary politician and as a minister. I therefore feel that the suspicion that has been raised here is somewhat the same as we experienced in the referendum on the reservation of law. One would almost like to make it an awkward thing to be in the Folketing and to have power and to be a politician. I regard it as the prime characteristic of a good politician that he talks to as many people as possible, as many companies as possible to become wiser. And why would I have to register all this stuff somewhere weird?
ParlaMint-DK_20160412140805	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412140807	Well, that could be one reason why I don't usually discuss it with as black and white radicals as I do at the moment, but I can get used to it. I would like to remind you that the credibility of politicians and ministers lies at the bottom, down around used car dealers and other people who are in a much more liberal industry than we are. And if it is not the rapporteur's intention to lift up a little, I think it is sad for politicians' reputation. It has nothing to do with whether I suspect politicians; it has something to do with the existence of power structures in our society, and we must, of course, keep them under control. And it is Parliament's job to control the executive. Don't we agree on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160412140848	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412140850	So let's be a little more atonement here at the end. I would like to help try to raise the credibility of politicians in general and do everything I can for it. But I do not think it is necessarily the right way to give the public the impression that there is a need to exercise control which I do not think is necessary. I do not think we should check with whom ministers meet. I think we should check whether ministers are telling the truth, whether they are doing what they say and whether they are receiving money from some places that can influence what they think. I agree with that control. But whoever is the Minister of Finance who happens to be sitting here in the chair, or the Minister of Justice had to meet at a party or at their ministerial office or anywhere, I have no intention whatsoever of interfering with, because I do not see that this is something that in itself I had almost said contributes to anything in democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412140943	Sir. Jep Jakobsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412140946	Thank you. The rapporteur believes that this proposal contributes to the creation of distrust. Now I know sir. Martin Lidegaard as a man who follows the public debate. Is it the rapporteur's view that the removal of access to some of the information that this proposal would give access to by means of the Public Service Act created less mistrust of politicians, since access to it necessarily creates distrust in the rapporteur's optics? Did you create less mistrust when you removed access to this information?
ParlaMint-DK_20160412141028	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412141030	I would be happy to take the debate on the Public Access Act again. As you know, we thought, and we still think so, that there was a need for a review of the Public Service Act, because new media, new opportunities technologically and so on. and new forms of cooperation in the governments made it necessary. We set out a number of objectives, you might say, and we also reserved the right to become wiser when the Public Service Act had worked for a while, for a few years. Now we are where we have to say that it is not everything we would like to have done with the public law that has happened. There are also some of the things that we decided that do not work as we would like them to work. We say this quite openly and honestly. And if what the rapporteur would like to ask is whether we are prepared to change the public law in those areas, then the answer is yes, because perhaps some of it has led to a greater mistrust than we had anticipated and which could have been foreseen, but then, of course, one must also be ready to change it afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412141128	Sir. Jep Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412141130	Thank you. What I was asking was this: now that the rapporteur believes that access to information on whom ministers meet creates distrust, does the rapporteur believe that confidence in politicians, now that they are not admitted, has increased?
ParlaMint-DK_20160412141147	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412141149	What I mean is creating distrust is that when you put forward proposals which, if I may say so, will make it compulsory for politicians to publish who they meet with at any time, you send a signal that there are things going on behind closed doors that are not quite right. And I believe that what is going on behind the doors in most ministries in Denmark, not to say all ministries, is quite all right with quite a few exceptions. And the exceptions are, of course, if a minister neglects his office, does not speak the truth to the Folketing, or, of course, if we should get to it, and I do not think we have seen this in recent times, that this is a form of financial bribery. I do not have the imagination to imagine this happening in Denmark, but of course you cannot rule that out, and that is why you have to keep an eye on it. But I do not see what it is, it brings with it real openness, knowing who a minister has met or seen or spoken to over the last ten years. What I can see, on the other hand, is that when you start saying that it has to happen and that it is part of the control we will exercise with all the ministers who come in this country, so that we will know exactly who they meet with and do not meet with. That is just the signal that you are saying: Well, there is probably a good reason to do that. And actually, I don't think there is.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412141308	Thank you to the rapporteur. So there are no more comments or questions. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jonas Dahl, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412141319	Thank you. I think that the debate took a slightly unexpected turn here under the last rapporteur. I therefore agree that it is clear that it will require resources if a registration is to be made. On the other hand, I believe that, as a Parliament and as a minister, there is an interest in ensuring that there is as much openness as possible. That is why I would like to start by going down in the substantive discussion that has been raised by both the Minister and the radical rapporteur in the past on whether it would be a great workload to record it here. Although I only have a short time as a minister behind me, I would like to say that I am fortunately also familiar with a very nice management secretariat in most ministries. There are secretaries who record who you meet with and who you say no to a sea of meetings, who say yes to a sea meeting, and I have very, very difficulty in seeing that it should be the huge burden and challenge for a ministerial secretariat to record which stakeholders have met with that minister, so that it is in fact open to the rest of the public who want to see who the specific minister has met with. For my sake, you can also write a line about what you've met about. I guess it's not the big surprise when you look at who you've met with. This will usually be roughly in line with what you have had as a subject. So I think it is an excellent proposal put forward by the Enhedslisten. Just as in these weeks and months we have to discuss a whole range of other matters for politicians in general, I think we also need to look at how we can ensure that we can demystify some of what is going on in the ministries and also at Christiansborg. I am sorry that this proposal does not also look at what we can do in relation to the Folketing. There we have had different arrangements in the past. It was not the great success that I would like to admit, but I think you have to look at how to do it in an easier way. I would just like us to go the other way, so that we could look at how the lobbyists could register, for example. if they were to act at Christiansborg. It would certainly ensure that we also had a completely different opportunity to see who has access to Christiansborg. It could be another way to turn it around, so that you would have to sign up as a lobbyist if you wanted to get access to Christiansborg. That could be one possibility, but now we have to deal with the concrete proposal, which is what Enhedslisten is putting forward today, and it is only a matter of lobbying ministers. I think that there are some excellent ideas behind it, and that is why we support it from the SF in the further work.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412141558	Thank you. There are no comments. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Pernille Skipper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412141622	Thank you for that and thank you, in particular, to the parties that supported this proposal. The Enhedslisten has put it forward because we believe that openness is something quite fundamental in a democracy. This is essential not only for combating corruption, but also for the electorate to be able to put a qualified cross on the ballot papers in elections, in other words to be able to see through the political system. If you cannot do so, it is considerably harder to know what you are voting for and then it hits the quality of our democracy, even though the formal framework may still be in place. As many of those who are opposed to this proposal have pointed out from up here, there may be very good reasons why politicians, ministers meet with interest groups, companies and associations and perhaps even professional lobbyists. Of course, I do too, and I am actually often proud of it when I do so, because there is a quality in it, I believe, as many others have also pointed out, that one is able to listen to views other than one's own biased opinions. It can also be an expression of listening to ordinary people who have their hands in the dirt every day. But I still believe that there must be openness about who you meet with, so that the public and the electorate can control who has, or who gets, or who does not get influence, so that the voters can decide whether it should again influence the cross they put. It may well be that there are many people who want to take an example that think it is a good idea that Eva Kjer Hansen, as Minister for Food, almost got Sustainable Agriculture, which is really a lobbying organisation for more mess in nature, to write the government's new rules for watercourses, but it may also be that there are others who do not think it is so cool, and therefore there is a need for openness about it if she as Minister meets with them. This motion for a resolution is not about prying into ministers' dental agreements or private activities, because that limit is obviously being drawn. Nor is it a matter of prying into ministers' party-political activities, because we must also be allowed to keep that to ourselves. Nor is it a matter of keeping quiet about working, or whether we should all stand in the office and watch when ministers work. It is a question of putting up with a certain degree of control and openness when you have power, and when you exercise that power, you are the subject of public opinion. I think it is a bit funny that many of the politicians who are now almost making the sign of the cross in relation to openness are some of the same people who do not hold back when it comes to prying in the privacy of innocent citizens, for example. in the name of the fight against terrorism. Here the right to privacy is almost confined to virtually nothing, but when it comes to the rulers, the right to privacy is suddenly extended to everything that goes on in the public interest. So yes, yes, to meet with lobby organisations and all sorts of others, but there is also a yes to openness about who you meet as a minister, so that there is access for voters to decide whether they think that many, many meetings with some lobbyists should have an impact on where they cross.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412142023	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Lidegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412142026	I am taking the floor because it just struck me that it is a fantastic example that Mrs Pernille Skipper gave to make it quite clear what added value this proposal really has. After all, Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen and all that some call manure gates are all about the fact that there was indeed a clear and strong influence from the agricultural organisation Sustainable Agriculture. I don't think anyone was in doubt about that. Nor was it concealed, for the views of Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen were completely identical to that of sustainable agriculture. It makes no difference at all in my book at least, if and when and how many times Eva Kjer Hansen has met with Sustainable Agriculture. What makes a difference is that it was clearly some very wrong attitudes that Eva Kjer Hansen came forward with, and it was a really, really wrong agricultural policy and environmental policy that was made. That's what was interesting. I guess it wasn't that she met with Sustainable Agriculture. I do not know how many times; for my sake she may have met ten times or once with Sustainable Agriculture. But what is interesting and what we should keep our political focus on is what Eva Kjer Hansen came out with. Fortunately, we did the same, and we also managed to do a little about it. But it is just a very good example of what added value it really is to know whether Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen has met one, two or ten times with Sustainable Agriculture. It's politics, it's not about all this process and bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412142148	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412142150	With that argument, there is no need for any openness whatsoever about political processes or about how political proposals are made. With that argument, we might as well shut it all down and just say that the only thing that is interesting is the output that is being presented in a legislative proposal in here. And I am aware that some people have meant that, and that was Radical Left's argument when they had to argue in favour of the Public Service Act. But I actually think I am a little in doubt as to whether radicals think that an insight into the political process, that is, what advice you have received, who you have been influenced by, whether you have fiddled with the figures, whether you have learned from Sustainable Agriculture, how to fiddle with the figures, or what I know, helps build a certain picture and insight into the political processes that can help influence. The voters then decide for themselves what they ultimately vote. However, insight into the political machinery space is also part of democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412142257	Thank you. I should also like to say that, if we talk about other Members of Parliament, we should remember that, according to the Rules of Procedure, we have to say that Mrs. and Mr. Martin Lidegaard this time. Here you go, sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412142308	I also feel guilty and I apologise to Mrs Pernille Skipper. Well, actually, I think it's Enhedslisten that's mixing things up here. For, of course, a minister must be accountable for fiddling with the figures. Of course, the public must be able to see whether a minister has tried to hide something or not or has done anything wrong. Yes. But it's not the same as not being allowed to meet with anyone you want to meet. It's not illegal or fancy or anything. That's why I just think it's such a blow to the air when you want to send a signal and say, "Hello, here we come, we want transparency about everything." Transparency is also fine, but in this case it is just a blow to the air, and it will actually help to suspicious all the people who meet all the time in the political system, because it is said that everything that is going on in a ministry, everything that is going on in meetings, everything that is of dialogue, is something that you want to control. No, what we need to check is whether everything is going to be done legally and whether there are any cash flows coming in, for example. from Sustainable Agriculture to Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen. It would be relevant to investigate.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412142416	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412142418	It's funny, I think I've said it three or four times today, and sir. Martin Lidegaard continues to misunderstand me. Sir. Martin Lidegaard says you should be allowed to meet with the people you want to meet with, but you have to. For the umpteenth time, I would like to say that this proposal is by no means about restricting who you meet with. It is about the public being allowed to see when ministers, the leaders of the executive, meet with organisations. Not that they should not be allowed to meet with them, but there must be openness about it. And I guess that's fair enough. Then you can decide whether that openness is something you want to use for something or not when you have to tick your mark. But the access to insight, along with the access to the e-mails that are being sent around between ministries, or some of the advice that is being given, for example. When members of parliament and ministers sit and make a political agreement and they get some technical assistance in advance, together they create a picture and an opportunity to gain insight into the political processes, the
ParlaMint-DK_20160412142526	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412142545	The debate has been opened, and that is first the Minister for Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412142610	Following the motion for a resolution, a working group is to be set up to draw up models for waiting periods for ministers to be appointed to lobby companies and the like. The authors shall state the reasons on which they are based, inter alia: the proposal with a number of specific cases where former ministers have obtained employment in private companies. It is the opinion of the proposers that this may lead to doubts as to whether, during their term of office, the ministers have acted for their own career or for the sake of the Community. The proposers therefore believe that a minimum waiting period of two years should be introduced before former ministers can take up positions in lobbying companies. A waiting period would mean that former ministers' opportunities to take up jobs in so-called lobbying companies would be limited. What the proposers call lobbying is not at all clear to me. I note that Enhedslisten has also tabled motion for a resolution on the creation of a ministerial lobby register. This is the matter which has just been dealt with and, following this motion for a resolution, external meetings must be published in a so-called lobby register. However, according to the proposal, this should not lead to a prior sorting and definition of which players can be called lobbyists. Lobby registered shall include information on meetings of ministers with all external actors. In this respect, I must first ask Enhedslisten whether the period of employment should also apply to all external actors, i.e. the whole private sector. Whatever the case, a waiting period will limit part of the exchange between the political profession and the private sector. It is an exchange that the government considers desirable. There is a need for knowledge dissemination and knowledge sharing between Christiansborg and what can be called the real world. We need skilled and committed politicians, but with a waiting period we run the risk that skilled professionals will refrain from entering politics because they are subsequently cut off from working within disciplines within which they have expertise and competences. Politicians often get shot in their shoes, that they do not have enough work experience. Today we are dealing with the question of whether we should limit politicians' ability to have such work experience. That will, of course, be the consequence of Enhedslisten's proposal, and it is, of course, a little paradoxical in itself. With a career period, you risk that part of the knowledge exchange between Christiansborg and the surrounding society will be lost and that skilled and committed professionals will not want to enter politics because they will not be able to resume their profession afterwards. A career period is a business limitation which is only necessary if you do not trust professional politicians to act professionally when the term of office of a politician is over. In the government, we have faith in our colleagues and, for that matter, also in our former colleagues. And, exceptionally, if there are politicians who, so to speak, cannot find a way of changing their hats when they subsequently take office in the private sector, then there is already a safeguard against it. Ministers are covered by the general rules of the Criminal and Administrative Code on professional secrecy. The obligation of professional secrecy shall not lapse when the Minister's term of office ends. For this reason, former ministers are bound by the obligation of professional secrecy and cannot, therefore, unduly disclose or use confidential information which has become known to the person concerned during his/her term of office as Minister. And these are precisely the cases which the authors of the motion for a resolution fear. With regard to a defence against the confusion of interests between ministers, there are now rules on liability, just as the criminal code already provides for penalties for bribery. There are, therefore, already safeguards which ensure that former ministers cannot use confidential information in their new jobs and that ministers do not confuse personal interests with those of the community. The government does not consider it necessary or desirable that more safeguards be created which prevent the exchange between Christiansborg and the outside world and which can prevent skilled people from entering politics. For the same reason, the government does not believe that a committee is needed either. The government cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412143120	Thank you, Minister. There is one comment from Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412143124	Thank you. I shall begin by answering the question put by the Minister, namely whether this should apply to all external actors, and there is of course the answer no. As the proposal says, it must be decided. There is not a definition yet just to clarify the Minister's questions. No, no, it must apply not to all external actors, but to those within, for example. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done on this subject. So I think it might be a little bit difficult to understand the argument. If I'm to be honest with you, it might seem a little bit sought. Well, the Minister of Finance also says that if we do this, people will not go into politics. I would just like to know in all silence whether this is something that the government sees as a major problem in many of the other European countries that have caring periods in one form or another. So, is there simply a one-to-one experience that if you have a waiting period in some form, no one wants to be a politician?
ParlaMint-DK_20160412143242	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412143243	I am not going to comment on how this works in other countries, but I would like to come back to the central issue: how do you define what is a lobbying activity? Because if there is no definition of it, it is all you meet, all companies in the private sector, who can lobby for some point of view that concerns their industry. That is why I think that Mrs Pernille Skipper owes it to her to explain what is the definition of a lobbying company. And if Mrs Pernille Skipper cannot do that, then the consequence is that everything must be registered.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412143322	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412143324	I have discovered that I have been in here for a few years now that there is such a special strategy sometimes when making suggestions. We are proposing something, and then because people are against it but do not want to say why, they are pretending to propose something else. This is a proposal to set up a working group to draw up models for waiting periods. This means that different models need to be drawn up on how to define exactly being a lobbying company, which is part of a career period. Such a period is likely to be different from a Minister of Food to a Minister of Justice what do I know? This has been achieved in a majority of other European countries in one form or another. So instead of asking me the question, we could vote for this proposal and then we could ask the working group how it defines it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412143419	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412143420	I think that is a somewhat backward way of operating politically. If you have a political wish, you must also be able to explain what the most central point of the proposal you make is in your own view, and here is the most central question: what is a lobbying activity, and how does it differ from a company that has an interest in some legislative issue? I think that Mrs Pernille Skipper owes it to the public to explain the direction in which her thoughts are going. Instead, it is just something: make some suggestions. I do not think that is a particularly satisfactory way of working in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412143503	Then we thank the Minister, there are no more brief comments. We go to the first rapporteur, and that is the rapporteur for the Socialists, Mrs Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412143519	Thank you. The proposal here requires the government to set up a rapid working working group with a view to drawing up one or more models for the introduction of a so-called waiting period for former ministers. Ministers must be cut off by law from employment in lobbying companies and the like. Let me start by saying that to some extent I understand the intention behind the proposal. It can be deeply provocative when a minister leaves responsibility for the Community's interests in favour of being a lobbyist who may even oppose the community. Therefore, when we Social Democrats are against the proposal, it is not about this lack of understanding of the dilemma, but about the fact that we attach great importance to the values of freedom. We should not stick people, not even former ministers, simply because they have made an effort and taken care of the interests of the Community. In Denmark we are free as people, and we must stand by that. And then there is probably some reasoning to take advantage of the knowledge and network gained in connection with a period of work, whether it is as an ordinary member of parliament or as a minister. This can actually lead to Danish knowledge and insight being brought into the big world and contributing to solutions. There is, however, a very clear restriction on this, and it is, as the Minister of Finance said, that the penal code and a number of other legal provisions make it impossible to use much of the confidential knowledge acquired and acquired by the Minister. A former minister is, of course, always responsible for his own ethics and morals, and I think that is worth holding onto in this context. The same applies, of course, to the employer with whom the former minister may be employed. Furthermore, as the Minister for Finance also mentioned, it is difficult to define what a lobbyist actually is. When is the lobbying going on? We also mentioned this in connection with the previous motion for a resolution, and when have the rules been broken? For which sports associations, patient associations or for that matter private companies can have a little snart of lobbying? Can not everyone do so, and can it not be feared, moreover, that the advice that is now being given in the public sector is simply being moved instead of being done in secret? Against this background, I must inform you that we Socialists cannot support the proposal as it stands here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412143803	There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412143809	I think I might know the answer, because Mrs Trine Bramsen has almost answered it already. I would like to start by saying that I respect the fact that we are taking the substantive political debate on this rather than pretending that it is just some definition issues that we cannot manage in Denmark when they can now in a majority of other European countries. However, Mrs Trine Bramsen does not also see that it can create major problems with confidence in political life, for example. the former Finance Minister, Bjarne Corydon, goes to a consulting house like McKinsey, which has earned millions of tax dollars while Bjarne Corydon was Minister of Finance? In other words, can the Socialists not agree that we have a trust problem when something like this happens, whether or not something does happen that is not appropriate?
ParlaMint-DK_20160412143906	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412143908	Many examples can now be given. One can also mention the example of a former court rapporteur who went out and became a lawyer in a high-profile law firm. Other parties have similar examples. I think the essential thing here is that we have a moral code. We are responsible for our own actions, and so are employers. But starting to stick tie people in the year 2016 I don't think we should.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412143936	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412143939	I mean, it was supposed to be a stick binding. I can at least admit to the Social Democrats that it is true that it is a limitation for some people that if you get as powerful a post as being a minister, there is a downcooling period, so a cooling period afterward, where you cannot get a job right within your own metier. But you can get all kinds of other jobs. It works in a majority of European countries where you have some sort of limitation for former politicians and ministers, including for MEPs in some countries. Can the Socialist Group in the European Parliament perhaps agree that a narrow definition should be applied so that one cannot move directly from one's own ministerial area into an organisation which deals with exactly the same thing, but can also get all sorts of other jobs?
ParlaMint-DK_20160412144035	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412144037	So we're back at this delineation, which is so incredibly difficult, because what percentage of the job you're looking for is supposed to consist of something similar to lobbying? Are there any subjects that are completely blacklisted, and are there others that go completely free, such as the local sports club or association or an association of interests? And then we are back on the issue of demarcation, which is so incredibly difficult and which is also one of the arguments that we are not voting for this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412144108	We thank Mrs Trine Bramsen. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412144116	Thank you. I am as offended as the previous speaker when a former minister suddenly gets a well-paid position from a company that has used many resources in the past to process the very same minister. This creates distrust of democracy, for example. when former Minister of Finance Bjarne Corydon gave large million orders to a company before an election, then on the other side of the election himself to get a position and a millionaire in the same company. Then the state of Denmark smells rotten. However, as the authors themselves have said in the comments on this motion for a resolution that we have just considered, it is difficult to define what a lobbyist is. Most people in here have probably had a mayor on the line with arguments for a highway, a hospital or a government workplace. That makes municipalities lobbyists. And should not a former minister be able to return to a job as a school teacher or teacher? That would hardly cause much dissatisfaction. The second major challenge is that ministers tend to change the resort from time to time or sometimes sit in a ministry for a very short time. It would be very difficult to draw up guidelines that would reasonably cover all scenarios considered. That is why it is a very difficult matter to clean up this morass, but it is nevertheless something that needs to be dealt with. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412144258	Thank you, sir. Jeppe Jakobsen. There were no brief comments. Then we give the floor to Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen from the Left, Denmark's Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412144309	Thank you. First of all, I am also speaking on behalf of the Conservative People's Party, which, because of political activities, could not be here today. That's how it is to be a small party. There isn't time for everything when you're a few elected representatives. The proposal before us today requires the government to set up a working group. The working group will draw up some models for a so-called waiting period for ministers, which will cut them off from work in lobbying companies and the like. I am not going to repeat what others have said here from the platform. But first of all I must say that it is not the case that we are setting up a group which must find its own way of defining why it has actually been set up in the world. I must say that in this case, when we use the term lobbying and the like, it will immediately include a whole series of different enterprises. There has already been mention here from the platform of the example of people who will be ministers who will later be employed in municipalities and companies. They may be advisory companies, they may be audit offices and the like. Bjarne Corydon, former Minister of Finance, has been highlighted. I don't know if he's been employed in a lobbying company. It's a company called McKinsey. As far as I know, it is a consultancy company and not someone who feeds on lobbying. But it just tells me how difficult it is to define this. Perhaps most companies do not write it exactly on paper. In my view, the proposal here is the result of an unhealthy and undocumented mistrust of both current and former ministers. It is ministers who have shown diligence, knowledge and skill and have thereby demonstrated that they could be used not only in the Folketing but also in the business community. I think that is certainly something worth noting: if you vote in favour of this, I think there is a great deal of distrust. I can quote from the remarks: "It may lead to doubts as to whether the politician has acted and acted for his own career or for the sake of the community or to direct suspicion of corruption. These are serious matters. Whether there is a team or not, the suspicion itself creates both mistrust and politician-led and thus worse conditions for democracy. I can say that the Left does not share that mistrust. On the contrary, we have deep respect for those who can also go from the Folketing to the business community, and for that matter also for those who go the opposite way. If I have to guess why people have politicians, it may be directed more towards the people who sit here all too many years and say the same thing and the same thing. These are people who at least demonstrate that they are able to manage in the private sector too, and I do not think we should accept any retreat barriers of any kind. Like the previous proposal, it has been rounded up by unhealthy mistrust, as has been said, and the Left cannot follow that distrust either on the part of current members of the government or, for that matter, on the part of former members of the government. I can point out, as the Minister of Finance has done in the past, that there are provisions not only in the criminal code, but also in the administrative law, which deals with professional secrecy. I cannot say that there is no danger of anything leaking out, but I can at least say that it is a matter of severe punishment if the minister concerned later opens up the inside information he has had here as a minister. I believe that the proposal will be an obstacle to businessmen to join the Folketing. They are traders who may have a ministerial career in front of them. They can look forward to having at least a retreat obstacle of some kind, and the Left will not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412144747	Thank you, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen. There are no brief comments. Then we move on to the next rapporteur, Mr President. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412144758	It cribes and scratches and claws with Enhedslisten's 14 members of parliament. They have become allergic to the private sector. They simply cannot tolerate the fact that there are too many politicians who, sooner or later, should have anything to do with the private sector, and that is why they have tabled the motion for a resolution which we are now considering. The proposal will make it necessary for a minister to have some kind of waiting period after ministerial time so that he or she cannot get a job in lobbying companies and the like. It scratches and itches, and the allergy is so advanced that one almost has to look out of one's own ideological position, because the argument is that one can risk working for interests other than those of the community, perhaps even against. And how can a party on the extreme left, which is self-aware of being representatives of certain class interests, even speak of having no interests other than the community, since the community must be defined as the political will expressed by the majority in this House? If you then go into the idea and say, okay, there are certain forms of employment that ministers cannot have, in the years after they have been ministers, then I think you will have a problem of demarcation, because can it really be true that a minister can be employed in the public sector after being a minister? After all, the Minister has been part of a collective government responsible for decisions on the whole public sector. Has the Minister really done so in order to promote the part of the public sector in which the Minister planned to work at a later stage? In other words, if the idea is to be taken seriously, it will exclude employment in the public sector. What about some of the Enhedslisten's almost allies, namely the trade union movement? The trade union movement is probably the most driven lobbyists in this country at all. No one affects as much and for as many millions as the trade union movement. Is it even reasonable for a minister in the years following the ministerial period to be employed in a trade union? Then there is the example that Enhedslisten himself uses, because they have messed around in lobbying and consulting companies, as Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen also mentioned so rightly: can you even be employed in a consultancy company when the former Minister of Finance Bjarne Corydon is used as an example? We have now cut off all interest groups, consulting companies, lobbying companies and the whole public sector. Where is it really that the poor people, former ministers, must be employed? They may have to line up with people who are on public support and thus become key voters for Enhedslisten, or what is the idea? I don't think this seems very thoughtful. There may be a small group of private companies where they may be employed, but it is not certain that they have the qualifications for exactly the private companies in which Enhedslisten will allow them to have a job. Fortunately, I know that it is not because the Enhedslisten is very much in favour of very generous and large red tape schemes for ministers, because it could of course be a different kind of support when you are not allowed to get a job at a great many of the jobs that exist in our country. So I do not actually understand what Enhedslisten will, in addition to turning ministers into potentially unemployed, funded by high benefits by taxpayers, and in fact making it harder for future prime ministers to find suitable ministerial issues. We vote no.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412145252	Thank you, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll. The next rapporteur is Mrs Josephine Fock from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412145308	Thank you. The proposal here requires the government to set up a working group to draw up proposals for different models for the introduction of a statutory waiting period for ministers who switch jobs to lobby companies and the like, to which they have been related in their work as ministers. There have been a number of examples of former ministers who have gone either directly or almost directly from the office of Minister to a position in a lobbying or advisory activity. They have been companies with which they have had a direct relationship in their ministerial duties. Such a direct shift between the role of minister to the role of lobbyist can be an expression of a problematic mix of interests. As a minister, you are the servant of the people and must focus on the best interests of society. As a lobbyist, you have a focus on influencing the political process for the benefit of your employer's interests. Although none of the cases and specific examples we have seen are necessarily an expression of a problematic mix of interests, the alternative of the view, like the proposers, is that this could lead to further distrust of the political system. After the last shift, which was when Bjarne Corydon switched to McKinsey, we remember that there was a violent uprising and debate among the people about whether it could now have its trueness. That is why we see it as an advantage, even for the ministers concerned, that there is some kind of waiting period that you can then discuss how long it should be because it will also give them a completely different kind of legitimacy when they then change. In the alternative, of course, we are also of the opinion that ministers should be able to change jobs. They must be able to go out and get jobs in the private sector. They must be able to go out to work in the public sector. However, we believe that a period of carnage of some length might also benefit that legitimacy. We also note that the proposal is to set up a working group to examine the possibilities that exist, and we think it is a positive approach to have to do so, so that there is no such final proposal on how it should be combined, because I believe that it can be combined in several different ways. The alternative supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412145532	Thank you to Mrs Josephine Fock. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Martin Lidegaard from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412145544	I think most people agree that the more diverse a Parliament we have, the more different backgrounds, professional experience, ages, gender, ethnic backgrounds we have, the more we represent the population, the better it is. We regularly have the debate that it is good that people come into the Folketing with little work experience, and vice versa I have to say because I have tried both to be inside and outside a few times that the getting out of political experience and hopefully also could explain in the real world how the political system works is actually something that is in demand, with good reason, in different places, in associations, in organisations, in companies etc. The interaction between the Folketing and society is, in fact, an interaction that we greatly appreciate in the Radical Left. And again, as when we were discussing the last proposal on the agenda here, we really think that it is a rather strange suspicion to assume that people who have been ministers in a Danish government do not intend to comply with the legislation to be complied with, and I would like to stress that, of course, you must not break your confidentiality and pass on any kind of information you have received through your office if you are to get into the situation that, 1⁄2 years after, 1 year after or for that matter 10 years after you have been a minister, you should get another job. That rule applies and that rule must be complied with. I'd like to take my own poor person as an example. I had been in the Folketing for 6 years, so I founded a green think tank outside the Folketing, where I worked with much of the politics that the Folketing went and did in here, then I became climate and energy minister. There, of course, I took in all the experience I had from the business community... it was a privately funded think tank... and I think it helped to qualify my work. And I will not rule out the fact that at some point, when I hope I have overturned the current government and been minister again, I should like to go out and create a green think tank again and there could qualify its work with an insight into how political work works. I am embarrassed, however, that if, along the way, both on one side and on the other side of the table, but in particular as a minister, I have come into possession of information which does not have to go out to others and certainly not to anyone who has a particular interest in it, then I must keep my nose away from it and, of course, comply with the legislation to the letter. We think it is healthy that politicians go in and out of the Folketing; we think it is healthy that one enriches the Folketing with one's own experience and vice versa enriches the world around with its political experience; therefore we are not in favour of the proposed proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412145838	Thank you, sir. Martin Lidegaard. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jonas Dahl from SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412145851	On the part of the SF, we welcome the debate on Karen periods. I also note that what is being proposed by the Enhedslisten is not to set an exact period at this stage, but it is to set up a working group to look at different models, inspired by that I understand the countries around us. Perhaps I can be almost entirely concerned that we are looking at only the appointment of ministers. Because could it also be imagined that they were the special advisers? After all, we have seen examples of previous governments, including the government I myself was part of, that jobs were created relatively quickly in a company where, at least, there were perhaps even relatively close relationships. It is clear that the knowledge that you raise as a minister or as a special adviser is something you bring along, and the question is, of course, how much of the knowledge that in some cases is also extremely sensitive you then pass on. I fully agree that there are a number of clauses that you sign that you have to comply with in terms of both one and the other, but there are not waterproof bulkheads. I think we all have to acknowledge this, and that is why I think it is sensible to see that there may be some time delay, at least in relation to an appointment immediately after one's ministerial period or, for example, in relation to a period of time. for the special advisers as well. I think this is a relevant discussion, and we can see it in the countries around us. In Norway, they have a quite extensive system. But it is clear, and one must say that is part of this discussion, which I also think is positive, that when one now envisages that there should be a working group to work on it, one must of course also look at what opportunities it is for former ministers and whether there are some demands that one can make. In that case, they will probably only be able to be asked during the period they, for example. After the time of their ministerial meetings, the two things can be put together in a good way. But I can read that out of the proposal as well, and I welcome it, is one of the points that is being put forward for an open and open-minded discussion. I think it is a good thing that Enhedslisten has taken this initiative, which calls for a discussion of the various options that should be available, and I think we need to look at whether there should be some restrictions on it and the examples have been many. Some people other than those who have been in the debate today have been mentioned in the comments on the proposal itself, and I fully acknowledge that there are some issues we obviously need to address. But I also believe that this is and will be closely linked to the whole issue of remuneration. Because I think that's where you can control it. I think it is very difficult to make some demands without the opposite being the case. But from the SF we support the setting up of a working group. I think this is a positive development and we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412150134	Thank you, sir. Jonas Dahl. There are no brief comments. Then we have come to the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Pernille Skipper from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412150155	When lobbyists are hired, there are no people who are hired to help politicians find out what is objectively best for society. Professional lobbying companies have been hired to promote some self-interests for private companies, for example, and to turn policy in a direction that benefits them. And when you hire lobbyists, these are money-strong organizations trying to buy their way into influence. That's the honest way to put it. I fully agree that it can be really smart to listen to all kinds of and impossible people in this society, interest groups, companies, and what do I know. They may be right about what they say; it may be that as a minister one considers that their proposals are objectively the best, but that does not change the fact that they are caring for their own interests. Politicians, on the other hand, are chosen to care for the interests of the community. That is why it is some interests that get mixed up when politicians change from one side of the table to the other side of the table. For example, I have. very difficult to believe that Karen Hækkerup's new job in Agriculture & Food had no relation whatsoever to her time as Minister for Food. It is also very difficult to believe that Gitte Lillelund Bech, when she stopped being a defence minister, just put on the shelf her knowledge of the fighter planes she had helped decide to buy, when she then became a lobbyist to sell fighter planes to the state. It's the ability to know the right people, to have the right phone numbers, to have the right network that makes a good lobbyist. That is why, as a minister in an area, one can of course be regarded as either capable, professional or one with many abilities. And yes, I am sure that Ulrik Nødgaard's abilities were crucial when he got the job in the Finance Council, the banks' lobby organization, after he had sat in the FSA, which was to supervise the banks. But these are abilities that he has gained through his public activities. Although things can be completely separated; even if you pretend that those people can completely erase their memory when they switch from one side of the table to the other side of the table, it still looks really, really bad. It helps to create politicians. I think it is a problem that top officials, politicians, spin doctors and lobbyists are well mixed up in such a concentrated power elite. They have common interests, they have mutual friends, and they trade more or less jobs when needed. There's like always a new stool for a good friend of the elite. It is a problem of trust, it is a moral problem and I think it is also a democratic problem. Therefore, in the Enhedslisten, we are not suggesting in all silence that we should not get a new job, or all the other kinds of exaggerations that have come from here, but rather that we should get a little lice-off for a period of time before we can become a lobbyist. That is how we are sure that you do not use your time and power as a minister to nurture and pave the way for a new job afterwards and that, on the other hand, you do not use and abuse the knowledge you have gained as a minister in your new job afterwards. It's not hard to do. It's not hard to define. It does not take the bread out of the mouth of politicians. First of all, you will receive a copy of the report, and secondly, it is far from all jobs that apply. It is not such a ban on getting a new job that we are talking about. But it is absolutely right that you should choose the right way to do it. That is why we have proposed that a committee be set up to draw up different models so that we choose the right one. There is a majority of European countries which have caring periods or some kind of restriction on what work can be done immediately after one has ceased to be either a minister or a politician or even a top official in some countries. It can be a short period or a long period. There are different ways to avoid that it can be difficult to define. Some of it's written down. In some countries, there is also an independent body which determines this in case of doubt. So that's something you work your way around. That is why I think it is really a pity that you use it as an argument, that it is difficult to define and that it can never be done. Because of course it can. This has been done in a number of other European countries and it works there. The question, of course, is whether it is politically reasonable to create a better understanding of the political world, so that we do not have the distrust which undoubtedly arises when Mr. Bjarne Corydon goes from being finance minister and spending millions of tax dollars on a consulting firm to subsequently being employed there; or when a food minister subsequently becomes employed in Agriculture & Food; or when a defence minister goes from being Secretary of Defense to selling fighter planes to the state. And we can go on and on. Unfortunately, there are far too many examples of this and it creates distrust of the political system. It helps to make the power elite even more eaten than it already is.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412150813	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412150817	That is actually because I think that perhaps some misunderstandings or confusion are becoming apparent in the reasons given by Mrs Pernille Skipper for the proposal. Mrs Pernille Skipper says that politicians are elected to defend the interests of the community. It's a quote. But these are ministers who have been appointed and not those elected by the electorate to be ministers. That's one thing. The second point is that if we now deal with the Members of Parliament, who are the politicians who have been elected, if we take that part of the sentence for good goods, then it is a political opinion that they are elected to defend the interests of the Community. "Share by opinion," said Viggo Hørup. There are a lot of people who have been elected in this House to take care of different kinds of special interests, and I do not think that Enhedslisten can be completely free of that, even for that matter. That's not what I'm saying. Maybe I just think it's quite indulgent enough for what's really going on in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412150913	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412150915	I think it's really nice that Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll got the last sentence. It is true that one may be elected to have special interests, but when one exercises the office of minister, one exercises it on behalf of the public. When, for example, you're gonna have to do something about it. If consultancy reports are commissioned for public tax dollars, this is done for the sake of the public authorities and the public authorities. What is the problem is that one goes from being a minister or a politician for that matter from a direct particular area to something similar on the other side of the table, a lobbying company, an interest organisation that is heavily linked to one's area, is that it creates a picture of, even if it is not a true picture, just a picture of some who abuse their position to pave the way for a new job, or subsequently abuse the knowledge they have gained as a minister, in the new work. That is a problem for democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412151017	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412151019	If someone is violating the law, it is a problem, and then it has to be dealt with. We agree on that. However, I do believe that Mrs Pernille Skipper and the Enhedslisten create politicians by trying to get more former politicians on public support, and in the Liberal Alliance we will not be voting for proposals that make more people dependent on passive public support rather than getting out and getting a job. This proposal reduces the likelihood of former ministers getting back into employment quickly. The irregularities must be dealt with, we agree on that, but we must not encourage politicians, and we do so with the proposal that Mrs Pernille Skipper has made here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412151105	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412151107	In other words, independence is not just something that needs to be present. It is also something that should appear to be present. So one thing is that you can have your discussions about whether or not the legislation has been broken, but just the fact that it seems that opposing interests have been mixed together, or that former ministers and current lobbyists and everything else are interfering with their own interests in public affairs, is helping to create distrust of the public system. Then I am well aware that there is, like a wave of politicians who believe that what is the problem and what is causing mistrust is not the existence of, for example, the fact that we are dealing with the problem. Trades jobs among the power elite, or we get too much pay in here. It is that Enhedslisten points out the problems of the political system, and if we just wanted to keep quiet, that distrust would not have arisen. I'm not buying that anyway. And I have to say... no, I can't.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412151209	There is no more time and there are no more brief comments, so thank you to Mrs Pernille Skipper. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak? There isn't, and then the negotiations are over. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. If no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412151231	The debate is open and the first rapporteur is Mrs Annette Lind from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412151305	Thank you very much. Denmark has a well-functioning preparedness based on both the municipal and state rescue teams, and I would like to start by saying that they are making a very important effort. Not least the volunteers do a lot of work and stand in the rain and sleet hour after hour. We can be very proud of that. Those of us who work with the emergency services know that the municipal tools today are changing a lot. The agreement for the municipalities' economy for 2015 decided to bring together the 85 municipal units within the municipal rescue unit into larger and more sustainable units. The municipal preparedness is now established in the new inter-municipal cooperation, and there is therefore a need to provide a new framework for the joint municipal emergency units. We are now doing so with Bill No. 167. The legislation here must create a more flexible framework for e.g.: the composition of emergency committees in the coordinated emergency units. We agree with the Minister that it is a good thing that legislation makes it clear that the role of the police chief in the Joint Emergency Commission is such that the Commissioner does not have the right to vote on municipal grant issues. There's a whole series of changes to this bill, and I'm not going to mention them all. However, this bill gives local authorities the right to appoint more employee representatives as members of the emergency committees. We Social Democrats consider it natural that the volunteers are always represented, as they are a vital and important part of the overall preparedness, and we would like it to be made clear that the volunteers in the Emergency Response Association are guaranteed a place in the Emergency Response Commissions. We very much hope that the Minister will change this bill. A number of recommendations were made at the request of the Committee on the Structural Affairs of the Rescue Force, which is reflected in the draft law here. We Social Democrats consider it reasonable that it is always the closest relevant emergency unit that is sent off and that the municipal council can be required to deploy in the municipal emergency preparedness outside its own emergency area. The municipal units have now become larger, and this can mean large geographical distances, so that the neighbouring municipality's unity can be closer if the accident is out. Furthermore, it is good that there can be cross-border cooperation with local, regional and state foreign rescue services in border areas so that everyone in the country, wherever they live, can receive good, rapid and effective assistance in the event of accidents, fires or disasters. In those words, I would like to end where I started. For it is absolutely crucial for us Socialists that there is a well-functioning and robust response, both now and in the future, to which citizens can be confident. On the basis of these words, the Socialists support the bill. We would like the Minister to make his comments and we look forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412151555	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we will move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Jeppe Jakobsen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412151603	Thank you. L 167 is most of all a much needed update of the Emergency Response Act. The pooling of municipal tools left a large number of legal gaps, since the emergency units are no longer directly subject to a single municipality. These gaps are now being filled with L 167 and we can of course support this in the Danish People's Party. The Danish People's Party also welcomes the focus on free disposal and on the principles that it is the closest relevant entity to move out. It focuses on the fact that tasks need to be solved more than on the need for structural limits to be respected. It makes no sense for citizens to have to wait longer for the fire truck to be of the right colour if someone who is just as good in the vicinity is kept just on the other side of a structural border. This is a subject which we would like to ensure is stab-hard, among other things. also in relation to the interaction between the joint municipal tools and the Emergency Management Board, and we will concentrate on this in the committee work. Finally, I would like to pay tribute to the fact that the parts relating to the outsourcing of fire-vision tasks have been pulled out of this draft law. This is an area that we in the Danish People's Party are concerned about, as difficulties can quickly arise. Furthermore, there is a quality aspect in which the experience gained from the privatisation of car vision has revealed stumbled vessels. Last but not least, it is not of unimportant importance to have the in-depth knowledge of a building that a fire vision provides when a fire is to be put out later. The coupling will be removed if the fire vision is outsourced. These are the focus areas that we will hold onto when that part comes back. But for the moment I have to say that the Danish People's Party can support L 167 and I look forward to the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412151816	Thank you, sir. Jeppe Jakobsen. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peter Juel Jensen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412151828	Thank you, President. The draft law has, among other things, been adopted by the Court of Justice of the European Communities. to provide a relevant legal framework for the new joint municipal emergency response units by creating a more flexible framework for the composition of emergency response committees in the coordinated emergency units. At the same time, the draft law implements some of the recommendations set out in the report of the structural committee of the rescue team set up as a result of the political agreement on the emergency response in 2013 and 2014. I am delighted that the Minister is now closing this case. It deserves the employees, the volunteers and everyone else who knows about the area. The bill suggests that the Minister for Defence may lay down rules that the municipal council must ensure that it is always the nearest relevant emergency unit that is sent off to fire and accidents independent of municipal boundaries. In addition, it is proposed that, in the event of major accidents and disasters, the Minister of Defence may require the municipal council to deploy the municipal rescue service outside its own emergency area. The above proposals form part of the implementation of the recommendations also set out in the report on the structures of the emergency services. Furthermore, it is proposed to clarify the role of the Commissioner in the Joint Emergency Commission so that the Commissioner does not have the right to vote on municipal grant issues. It is also proposed that the municipal council may appoint one or more employee representatives as a member of the emergency committee. In addition, it is proposed to amend the Protection Rooms Act, the Fireworks Act and the Marine Environment Act, since a change of these laws is necessary in order for the municipal council to transfer tasks assigned to the municipal council under these laws to a Emergency Commission. It is also proposed that the plan for the risk-based dimensioning of the rescue response should no longer be included in the municipalities' general contingency plan, with a joint plan for the risk-based dimensioning in the new and larger units being established in the future. The plan for risk-based dimensioning will continue to have to be approved by the municipal council in each coordination. The Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412152056	Thank you, sir. Peter Juel Jensen. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Nikolaj Villumsen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412152107	Thank you. This bill is intended to adapt the Emergency Response Act to the new joint municipal units. It is of course no secret to those who have followed in the discussions on the Danish preparedness that we on the Enhedslisten have been clearly opposed to the great savings made by the Danish People's Party, the Left, the Social Democrats and the Radicals in changing the municipal tools. It is not because we have been opposed at any time to trying to see whether it could be done differently in the municipal tools, but it is because we are against making it a saving exercise of 175 million. kr. at a time when violent weather due to climate change and the threat of terrorism should mean that we strengthened and prioritised preparedness in Denmark. It is therefore also incomprehensible to me that the Danish People's Party, the Left and the former SR government did not take the challenges of terror and climate change more seriously, but they made these savings in municipal preparedness. However, despite the opposition to savings, it is on the part of Enhedslisten that we are positive about the concrete changes proposed in this bill. It does not impose savings, but sets the framework and conditions for the 24 municipal emergency units. However, on behalf of the Enhedslisten, we would like to propose certain individual additions to the committee's work which we are now faced with in relation to the changes proposed by the government here. For us, it is important that we ensure that the security of our citizens is at the heart of the matter, and that is why it should also be the case that it is clear from paragraph 1. 5 in section 12, that it must be the nearest contact point, even if the nearest contact point is at the Emergency Management Authority. I was able to hear from the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party earlier that the position of the Danish People's Party is the same and I hope that several parties will support it in the committee procedure. I think it is positive that the bill allows the Minister of Defence to ask the municipal authorities to assist in other municipalities in the event of terrorism, and we will propose from the Enhedslisten that the Minister of Defence also have the opportunity to instruct the Emergency Board to assist in this work and, if necessary, direct the efforts, as it may, unfortunately, be relevant if we should face very violent terrorist attacks in Denmark, for which we should prepare ourselves. So Enhedslisten is positive about the proposal. We will come up with two concrete proposals here in committee, for which I hope there will be support, just as I can say that we are positive about the proposal I heard from the Socialists to include volunteers. We will support that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412152400	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Juel Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412152405	Thank you. I understand that Enhedslisten is very upset that money has been found in this area. See, the money went to a growth package from June 2014, which was supposed to help kickstart the Danish economy. This meant, among other things, that it was cheaper to transport goods to our islands, which was very, very necessary. But now that the rapporteur is so indignant about the removal of money and says that now, when it comes to terrorism and the fight against major disasters, and so on, we are gambling with the whole of the overall preparedness, it might be nice to see the rapporteur throwing such a claim into the air that the rapporteur is actually going in and saying: here we do not have a satisfactory response. Where does the rapporteur not think that there is a satisfactory response in Denmark right now?
ParlaMint-DK_20160412152451	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412152454	I think it is a huge problem that cuts are being made and, frankly, I also have doubts as to whether this money has been found. Well, in some municipalities it is reported that you have actually ended up spending more money on preparedness. Although after the KL agreement with the previous government, on the basis of the tax concessions agreed by the Danish People's Party and the Left with the SR government, you are in a situation where you should have found some money, you have ended up spending more money. That means, of course, that it may be all sorts of others who have come to pay for the tax cuts. It can be older, and it can be children around the municipalities. So it says something about that it was both a very ill-thought-out maneuver and that it was also a maneuver that was not based on a major emergency assessment, but that it was some money that was found a late evening in some negotiations. And I don't think that suits the parties behind it. I think it is a bad thing not to take the threat that we face with violent weather due to climate change and the threat of terrorism more seriously when you make such major changes as you have done here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412152601	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412152604	Thank you. That was a lot of talk. I asked you a very specific question. If the rapporteur is now standing on the country's first platform and questioning whether we have a satisfactory preparedness in Denmark, then I assume that the rapporteur has more than words and loose claims. Then I assume that the rapporteur can say: this is precisely where the Enhedslisten believes that our preparedness is not satisfactory. In fact, I think that when the rapporteur throws out such remarks and allegations, the work of the employees is being questioned and all the volunteers involved in this are being questioned. And perhaps the rapporteur should also bear in mind that the government that was sitting and finding the money in this area was, after all, the support party of the rapporteur. Why didn't you yell at the guard in the rifle back then?
ParlaMint-DK_20160412152651	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412152654	I can remind everyone that we were shouting guardly at that time, and it is completely incomprehensible to me that the Conservatives, who were in fact also opposed to the deterioration, but were part of the conciliation, did not call it a breach of conciliation. As you know, the Enhedslisten was not in the conciliation circle and could not stop it that way, but we cried out loudly against the savings that were being made. I think we owe it to all those in the Danish preparedness, who make a real, real effort, to take their work seriously, and that is not done when you make such huge savings without thinking it through properly. Unfortunately, we see a situation in which even the government had to admit that excessive savings were being made. After all, the new Secretary of Defense cancelled some of the savings on state preparedness. We were faced with a situation where both the state preparedness and the municipal preparedness were cut down massively, and our position in the Enhedslisten was quite clear: let us add money and resources to this area. If we can find savings by doing something new, that money should be added, because there is a need for strong preparedness.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412152802	Thank you, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Leif Mikkelsen for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412152811	Thank you. As citizens, we have the expectation that the preparedness will just be there when we need it. We can be pleased that it actually is. It is because of great commitment. I guess we all recognize the situation where a proud emergency person can tell us how fast you could pump so much water away or how you could fight it and that fire. It is a combination of structure, governance and a number of volunteers. Therefore, it is very good that we are now tying a loop around it and getting rid of the uncertainty that has been about how the conditions should be for the whole preparedness. I think it is with good fortune on the part of the Minister for Defence that the doubts, the uncertainty about what the framework should be like in relation to the savings that were made and that we were not behind are now being resolved. Now, however, it has been corrected, and there is a natural link between state preparedness and municipal preparedness, which has now been incorporated. That is why we can just say that we support the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412152932	Thank you, sir. Leif Mikkelsen. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. René Gade from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412152944	In the alternative, we have experienced entering the Folketing, where there was a saving on preparedness, and we were against that saving as a starting point. After all, we should find the money somewhere for what we should do if we were not to save there, and we have actually seen that there has been a very good dialogue with the Minister for Defence and the other parties about what we could do. It seems that we are landing in a sensible place. We're not quite there yet. However, the centres around the country, i.e. decentralised preparedness, and the feeling that there is a readiness, should not be underestimated. Nor should we underestimate what it actually means that there is a centre in terms of being able to provide volunteers and in terms of being able to provide personnel. If you gathered the centres and they were more scattered, you would probably find that there was some support and some voluntaryness that would just as quietly seep, perhaps not at first, but by veins. That is why we are also very positive about going in and looking at where to make things more efficient and where to make things easier. The proposal here does not actually contain any alarm bells ringing for me, except that, of course, KL and the municipalities should not be deprived of responsibility or decision-making powers. There are some things going on where the Secretary of Defense can go in and make some decisions which, I hope, are the right ones, without having to deal with local economy. We think that's good. In committee work, we will really focus solely on ensuring that no municipalities get caught up and think that there is an economy that they are forced to comply with, where responsibility has then been given away. I do not think there is anything bad in the hearings we have received. In addition, there may be elements that there are some slips in relation to when to use the alert, when to use the defense, when to use the Home Guard. In general terms, then, I think that in today's debate there are some rather vague surfaces for what is allowed to be played. There's nothing in this bill that I think screams to heaven either. So we're very positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412153150	Thank you, sir. René Gade. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Martin Lidegaard, on behalf of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412153201	Like a number of other parties, the Radical Left has also followed the debate on preparedness closely, and we have even meddled very closely in it, because we think it is an important area that is developing rapidly. As many have said, the world that has come to us mostly on good, but also on evil, also has a future with clearly greater tasks for preparedness, whether we are talking about climate change, terrorism or ordinary emergency tasks as we know it. That is why, of course, we also need to think carefully, including with the new technologies that we are being given. How do we organize best? We are pleased that the Minister for Defence has managed to find money elsewhere than on the savings that we actually intended to make. And we in the Radical Left are, in fact, even happier that we have also agreed in the vote agreement which is the basis for this bill that we are now implementing the measures contained in this bill, and within a year of 1 March 2017, we will then sit down and evaluate the structure that has ended up with, and find out what is really good with the municipalities, what could one imagine would be good with the state, and get a slightly clearer division of labour and perhaps also a slightly higher level of ambition, perhaps with the involvement of several stakeholders, one might say, in the area. That is why we welcome not least the draft law, but also the agreement behind the draft law, and look forward to the continued discussions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412153337	Thank you, sir. Martin Lidegaard. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Holger K. Nielsen from SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412153346	We can support this bill. As the last speech also showed, there are some sensible adjustments to the structural changes that have been discussed and implemented. That is why we need to get these things through, and we support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412153411	It's easy to be president. Thank you so much. Is there a Conservative rapporteur? No, there isn't. Then we've reached the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412153431	Thank you for your comments, and thank you to all parties for your support for the bill. I would like to emphasise that the main purpose of the draft law is to translate some of the recommendations that came from the Rescue Response Structural Committee back in 2014. The recommendations of the committee form the basis for the proposals to ensure a more efficient division of labour by taking advantage of the possibility of using the resources of the emergency services locally across municipal rescue services and at national level in the event of major and rare disasters and major accidents. In this context, I would also like to emphasise that over the years there has been a focus on the need for the state and municipal rescue teams to be properly organised and to complement each other in the best possible way. This consideration shall be taken into account, inter alia: in the provisions of the draft law, which I have already mentioned, to use the resources of the rescue service across the country and to support the general focus on ensuring professionally sound solutions, which are cost-effective at the same time. As part of the implementation of the agreement on the municipalities' economy for 2015, the municipalities have carried out a comprehensive restructuring of the municipal rescue service and established themselves in new joint municipal units. The draft law provides a legal framework and a legal framework for the new joint municipal emergency units, including by creating a more flexible framework for the composition of emergency committees in the joint municipal units. In the field of preparedness, there is mutual cooperation in border areas and there is a desire to continue and develop this cooperation for the benefit of both Denmark and our neighbouring countries. The development of this cooperation will include: • to ensure that countries can benefit from each other's resources, for example: in the case of a fire where the nearest fire station is located just across the country border. That is why the draft law provides that the Emergency Response Board and the municipal emergency services can enter into agreements with national and local foreign rescue services in the border areas in the event of major accidents, and I think that makes a great deal of sense. In addition, the draft law includes, inter alia: a provision specifying that the Minister of Defence continues to lay down rules on the preparation of plans for the risk-based dimensioning of the municipal emergency preparedness and which strengthens the supervision of the Emergency Response Board in those cases, since in future the opinions of the Emergency Response Board on a proposal for a dimensioning plan for the municipal emergency preparedness will be submitted to the municipal council. As a responsible minister, I must express my great pleasure at the support of all the parties present in this Chamber today and look forward to good committee reading. A few questions and comments were raised, including a request from Mrs Annette Lind, the Social Democratic Party, that the volunteers from the Emergency Response Association be represented in the Emergency Response Commissions. This is a proposal that I would like to take a friendly look at, and I will see if it could be a solution. It also depends a little on what the assessment is of who you expect the municipal council to appoint, because it may also be that the problem can be solved that way around. But I am happy to enter into a dialogue on this. The Enhedslisten had a proposal and raised the question of whether it should be the State Emergency Centre that should be the first to move out if it is the one closest to an accident. I think it is rather a reflection on what kind of an accident it is. It is thought that the state rescue service complements the municipal authorities. An extreme here is, of course, if it is a very small accident: there may have been a fire in a trash can, and if you then decide that it per. automatics must be the state preparedness to move out because the state centre is closest to it, it is not, in my opinion, an optimal use of resources. The whole idea is to work closely together. Of course, if there is a great need for either rapid reaction or more rapid reaction, state preparedness is available. But, of course, I am happy to reply to that during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412153944	There are a few brief comments. The first is from Mrs Annette Lind from the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412153948	In fact, that is how democracy works. Now I don't have a question anymore. I would just like to say that I am pleased that the Minister has made a positive statement that volunteers should have a permanent member in these emergency committees. I would like to thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412154011	Does this mean that the Minister will also say something nice to the rapporteur? No. The next rapporteur, who would like to make a brief comment, is Mr Seligman. Martin Lidegaard from the Radical Left. It's a mistake. Then we thank the Minister. Hey, there's another one already? There was another one. Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412154031	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for the dialogue. The point is, of course, that it is also when there is a need for more help that you not only pull on the neighbouring municipality, but pull at a shelter if it should be close. So I hope we can find a good consensus there. I would really like to hear the Minister's position on this now, if there are major terrorist attacks on Denmark. Would it be advantageous, in the Minister's view, if the Emergency Board were to be set up to conduct operations of this kind? That is also what I mentioned in my speech. It will now be possible for the Minister to ask municipalities to go to another municipality to help. Would it also make sense for the Minister to have the opportunity to say: this is such an attack that the Emergency Response Board should now take charge of the action?
ParlaMint-DK_20160412154125	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412154128	Yeah, I mean, it makes sense. However, in a situation where there is a very large terrorist attack in Denmark, there will also be a central management of all capabilities in Denmark in the form of NOST, which one will put together in such a situation. That is where I assume, and I must return to this, that this will also automatically lead to a management right in relation to the overall preparedness.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412154204	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412154207	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Then I think that in committee we can work precisely to ensure that there is the best possible effort if the terrible thing should happen that we were hit by terrorism or war. That is what has been proposed in the Minister's amendments that we must take into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412154232	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412154235	When there is a law to be able to obtain the tools of other municipalities or common community tools, this is not a situation that I imagine is often used. There is, of course, traditionally a close cooperation between the municipal tools, where people themselves contact each other. The municipalities are helping each other. But in such a situation as could be a major terrorist attack and let us hope we never get to it there could be a need to obtain from many parts of the country, and that is in the light of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412154324	Thank you, Minister. Well, then, sir. Rasmus Jarlov asked for the floor for round two. Sir. Rasmus Jarlov is from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412154341	Thank you, and of course I have, for not making the first round, which I regret. We were in a conciliation on the light track, which dragged out a little bit. But I would like to commend this bill and express our support for it. I think that these are very logical things in the draft law. We will have more flexibility, we will be able to deploy our preparedness more flexibly. It also makes very good sense that we can participate better in international operations. So I just want to say that we think it is a good legislative proposal that we look forward to voting through.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412154425	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Jarlov. There does not appear to be anyone else who wishes to speak. That concludes the debate. I propose that the bill be referred to the Defence Committee. If no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412154447	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Defence.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412154511	Thank you. The proposal we are debating here is a resolution on the citizens' ombuds for volunteers in the Home Guard, and according to the proposers, it is the intention that volunteers in the Home Guard can be covered by the rules on civic ombuds. It is my view that the voluntary identity of the Home Guard and the more binding nature of the bourgeois ombud are not in keeping. In addition, it seems to me that there is no need for regulation in this area. I understand that the purpose of the proposal by the Danish People's Party is to ensure that the Home Guard can support the police in the solution of their tasks, and that the problem should be that many volunteers in the Home Guard find it difficult to get free to provide time and to solve the tasks of the Home Guard. I do not think there is any indication of this, and it is not an issue raised by the Home Guard. When you look at what has happened in 2015, on which the Home Guard has just come up with their annual reports, you can see that they are finely able to solve the many tasks they solve for the defense, for the police and for society, by the way. 21⁄2 million hours have been delivered by the National Guard in 2015. 2.323 times they've been out helping these different parts of society, i.e. both defense and police. The current refugee and migration situation is a good indication that things are constantly evolving and, of course, we must always bear in mind that the Home Guard is also able to provide the relevant support for the defence and society, as is needed. I believe that the Home Guard will also be able to provide that support in the future, even if we do not take the Home Guard's volunteers under the civil code, but insist that it is therefore a voluntary military emergency organisation that we are dealing with. In addition, there are also a number of legal challenges if you make it a bourgeois ombud. I can, of course, deal with these during the committee procedure, if the Folketing so wishes, but the government cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412154836	Thank you, Minister. Then we start with the rapporteurs, and the first rapporteur is Mr Cryer. Bjarne Laustsen from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412154846	Thank you, sir. President. For this proposal we cannot just say just come, you, because it has some problems in it, as the Minister also mentioned. The Danish People's Party must be praised for thinking about the Home Guard, because the Home Guard always thinks about society. I think most of us will do well by the Home Guard. In the Home Guard, we also have a motto: you live on the lust and die of duty. It is therefore a voluntary organisation that can be accepted if you want to meet the requirements and then you live on the many exciting tasks offered by society, both help for the defence and other different authorities, the emergency aid, the tax and, above all, the police. And there, during the period of real pressure, we can see from the latest figures that the volunteers have helped the police 132,000 hours in 2015. Here on April 1, the Home Guard had a birthday and was 67 years old, and they have gone through all the years without having a bourgeois ombud. That is why we also believe that it can go in the future without a bourgeois ombud. We have various organisations, InterForce, etc. that work on a close dialogue between companies and employees about having time off for such things here. In fact, I personally have never heard of the fact that there should be problems for a Home Guard man to get off duty. A lot of these tasks you do are foreshadowed events, which means you can plan your way out of them. When we were on a committee trip here last week, we were told that there are National Guards who spend 1,100 hours a year, and that is huge. A lot of people spend 500-600 hours, and a lot of people spend 100 hours helping society when it is needed. What is a huge increase in the unpredicted events, and there has been an increase of almost 50 per cent, from 525 to 763 in 2015, and therefore, even what has not been planned, has gone on, even though there has not been a bourgeois ombud. So there's probably no need for this proposal, but of course I'll be glad to hear about it if anyone's caught up. This is also a matter that the National Guard volunteers have discussed. I have asked the Presidents of all three defenses directly and they say they are against it because, as they say, it is a proposal that is not needed. So it is difficult to support a proposal that those concerned do not like, and that is why it is also the case in the Social Democratic Party that we will say no. But thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising the matter so that we can have a talk about it. If there is a case with which the Danish Parliament and also the Danish People's Party will help the Home Guard and, in general, the voluntary Denmark, it is in connection with the deterioration in the unemployment benefit area, including the supplementary allowance. In around 2007 or 2008 and again in 2010, there were decreases in the benefit area, which means that if they lose their jobs in their main occupation, they should be offset against their benefits. It is a huge problem that we have people who are innocent and who want to make an effort for society, but if they receive some benefits, receive security allowances or something else, they are set off against their daily allowance or their cash benefits. I think we should look at that and it would be a far better proposal than doing this. So I would urge that we look at it; I will write around to the rapporteurs that this is something we should look at as soon as possible to find a solution to, because this really is a matter of great concern to the volunteers. I think there are several people in this Chamber who have also received letters from various people who have come into contact with this. Thank you for raising the debate, but as things stand now, there is no need for the proposal, and I believe that almost whatever you ask the Home Guard to do, they will do the job. We can look at the target figures and the evaluations that are that you are able to do what you have to do within the hour of preparedness. We can also see from the evaluations that are being carried out what the police have been helped with, and we can see whether those who have been helped are satisfied and there is a target achievement of between 98 and 99. This means that, in the name of volunteering, we will succeed out there, and I think we should thank the volunteers for this without creating new limits for a voluntary emergency organisation.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412155338	Thank you, sir. Bjarne Laustsen. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peter Juel Jensen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412155354	Thank you, sir. President. The motion for a resolution we are debating here is that volunteers in the Home Guard should be included in the bourgeois ombud. We in the Left do not agree with this because, in our opinion, the proposal conflicts with the voluntary identity of the Home Guard. We have recently discussed the 2015 National Guard Annual Report in the conciliation circle, and here we could see that the Home Guard has no immediate challenge in meeting the requirement to comply with a one-hour alert. This means that the structure is working and that it is not a challenge to provide the necessary staff. However, as the proposers rightly point out, the world is changing. And when things change, you have to adapt constantly. Therefore, an analysis of the Home Guard's challenges will be initiated even when it comes to longer-term efforts. Having said that, however, I have not heard that such an action has been called for. The Left cannot support the motion for a resolution but looks forward to the analysis referred to by the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412155501	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the next rapporteur, and this is Mrs Eva Flyvholm from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412155516	Thank you. In the Enhedslisten, we cannot support this proposal, and this is primarily because I do not believe that voluntary participation in the work of the Home Guard can be compared to what we generally know as a bourgeois ombud. You know, it's usually something you can do if you're elected, i.e.. municipal politicians or judges and jurors who also have a duty to carry out that task. So it is a completely different type of job, you might say, or a completely different type of job than the voluntary work being put in the Home Guard. I would also like to say that I do not believe that the deployment of the Home Guard is, at least as a starting point, an appropriate solution to the police's resource problems. We would certainly prefer most of the tasks to be carried out by police or defence or rescue personnel, who have the right training to carry out these tasks. It can also be said that, in relation to this specific proposal, the President of the police has also come out to comment on the fact that there may well be legal security problems in the deployment of Home Guard staff in these tasks. Then, of course, it is also a matter of prioritising the tasks of the police, and there is probably no secret that we in the Enhedslisten think there could be fewer police officers at the border. In any case, I have also noted that this proposal has received little support, either from the chairman of the National Guard Association or from the chairman of the police. So we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412155713	Thank you to Mrs Eva Flyvholm. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Leif Mikkelsen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412155726	Thank you. In the Liberal Alliance, we believe it is important that we have a Home Guard. We welcome the fact that there are a large number of people who, all by themselves and on their own initiative, want to be part of that community and carry out a number of good, important tasks for society. It is worth sticking to, it is worth supporting the Home Guard when the opportunity arises, and we have also read with interest the reports that exist, about the tasks of the Home Guard, etc. That is why we would also be concerned if we could think of that idea and support this proposal. Because there is a risk that there will be a situation where there may be employers who may be concerned about hiring people who report that they are in the Home Guard, because one then has to say that one can risk being commissioned for a particular task during working hours, and that would in fact be a really bad development of this. I say this because we are in agreement that we should be able to use someone other than the police for a number of tasks. It may be the defence for guarding tasks, it may be the Home Guard in a number of cases where something special is happening; so we are in the Liberal Alliance in this way. But to take the step that the proposer is doing here and to apply the rule that we have on citizens' ombuds, we cannot support it, and that is why we say no to the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412155857	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. René Gade from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412155904	In the alternative, we are always very supportive of volunteering, and the Home Guard in its basic idea is very good, and many talented people work hard and very voluntarily in the Home Guard. However, we see a very great danger in mixing things up, and here we think that we are going to go into some areas where the Home Guard really does not belong, precisely the police area, which we also read in the proposal, where it will be used in relation to border controls. We are generally opposed to the border controls that have been set up. So it does not make it easier for us to be positive about the proposal either. I think that perhaps the most interesting thing here is that we will have a new discussion about what we are really going to do with the Home Guard. In the alternative, we have not necessarily determined what we think should be done with the Home Guard, how it should be used, but this could well be one of the slides where you should start by having a general discussion and then say: is this where you start to find applications for the Home Guard? We are not really thinking that the Home Guard should be militaryly based, as it is actually in its basic structure, and that is why there are challenges for us in general in relation to the role of the Home Guard and the resources allocated to the Home Guard: is that right? Is that what it's supposed to be like? On the other hand, we also see a lot of good things about the National Guard. There are many values here and many tasks that are being carried out by the National Guard, which you cannot just remove. So we would really like to have a debate on the Home Guard and the resources that will be allocated to them. But we cannot back this proposal. At the same time, it is also a challenge in relation to the business community. I also think there was one person who mentioned it before • where it gives some trouble, if you need to have these things in your consideration, i.e. whether you suddenly lose an employee.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412160042	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412160052	The Radical Left cannot support this resolution, and we cannot do so for a whole series of reasons, most of which have already been mentioned by the rapporteurs who have been on the floor. Firstly, we do not think it is a perfectly reasonable situation to put the volunteers in, nor their employers, and secondly, there are some of the authority tasks which the police are responsible for, which are mentioned in the motion for a resolution, which we do not immediately see the Home Guard as being ready to carry out in terms of competence. So for these reasons, that is a 'no' vote on our part.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412160129	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412160139	We cannot support this proposal either. There were many good arguments from different quarters, which I do not have to repeat here, so that means that we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412160150	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412160203	We have great sympathy for the proposal, but unfortunately we also have to say no. It is a good idea to ensure that the Home Guard gets better conditions, but the question is whether it would benefit the Home Guard at all. Now we heard from the head of the Home Guard, sir. Bjarne Laustsen, here before that it wasn't something you wanted in the Home Guard. And I can understand it because it would mean that it would be unattractive to hire people from the National Guard if they had this right to disappear from their workplace. In addition, it has to be said that it would, of course, greatly expand the use of bourgeois ombuds if the many members of the National Guard were suddenly to be included in relation to the relatively limited group of people who are currently subject to the rules on civil tender. I don't know what the rules are like in a war situation. I guess you'd get off work or you'd probably take off work, I hope. But if there had been some very limited situations, we could have talked about it, but here it is simply too widely defined for us to believe it can be adopted as a proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412160309	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412160319	Thank you. I still have the merit of seeing a local politician get his arm on his back and be forced into a council hall by a cop, just as in my time as a judge I have seen many being excavated by the police, but not yet seen any of them being judges. And why is that? Indeed, despite the fact that the bourgeois ombuds contain a passage stating that this is something we are obliged to do, there is no practical application today, so those of the rapporteurs who poured the proposal down the board, on the grounds that it was now about forcing homeguards to carry out their service, have managed to find a somewhat sought argument. It is true that there are few problems today in getting free to perform their service in the Home Guard, but that is because today's efforts are primarily about emergency interventions for a shorter period, that is, here and now. What this proposal should allow is that we can use the Home Guard over long periods of time when it can be difficult to get free. For as Mr. Bjarne Laustsen mentioned, of course, you can plan your way out of these long-term bets. But the fact is that a lot of Home Guard soldiers can plan their way out of this because they spend their vacations on providing a service to the state, and it is not fair that it should be so. In relation to this with the voluntary presidents who do not want the proposal, it is something else I hear when I talk to them. So there must be some of us who have heard something wrong. The Unity List states that police tasks must be solved by people with a longer education. Now all I have to say is that it is already the case today that the Home Guard is carrying out several police tasks under the command of the police, of course, but nevertheless they are already doing police tasks today. In relation to this argument about the legal problems, I have to say that it is simply the funniest argument to hear in this very Chamber where we are actually adopting the law of the country. So the thing about saying that law prevents us from doing something here in the Folketing is, it has to be said, a somewhat sought argument. The tank of B 61 is two-part. First of all, it is a matter of recognising the efforts of the Home Guard, because, as was rightly mentioned, the members of the Home Guard spent 21⁄2 million voluntary hours last year. It demands respect, and we would like to acknowledge that in the Danish People's Party. Part of these hours is a crucial contribution to the functioning of the state in particularly stressed situations, for example: When nature rages, the environment must be saved or Danes protected. People who provide such interventions, even voluntarily, must, of course, have the same protection for the performance as people who, for example, have to do so. are judges or members of the municipal council. The fact that some of the National Guard's efforts, and not all, are covered by bourgeois ombuds, is a clear signal that we appreciate the efforts of the Home Guard soldiers. The second reason, as is also mentioned, is quite topical: the lack of hands in the police. By allowing the government to make decisions in individual cases to activate the Home Guard as a bourgeois ombud, the individual Home Guard soldier will be able to take on a task such as: border guard without having to worry about losing his job and without having to spend holiday days at stakes for the Home Guard and the state, as is the case with many today. As has also been mentioned in the comments on the proposal, there is no intention to change the way in which the resources of the Home Guard are obtained. It will therefore not be a question of requiring the individual National Guard soldier to serve; it will continue to be called upon to provide a service, just as judges, as mentioned earlier, are asked whether they have the opportunity to appear in a courtroom. The proposal must therefore only tell the heads around the Danish workplaces that making an effort for the Home Guard is a task that we in the state are asking for and is therefore of benefit to the community. Furthermore, and perhaps more importantly, it shows that in the state we recognise and appreciate the very large and efficient and hard-working reserve that we have in the Home Guard and that their efforts are also important to us.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412160815	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Bjarne Laustsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412160821	That is what the rapporteur says about the voluntary Presidency. Where did you get that? The rapporteur has heard it from elsewhere. I think it is a little strange, because there is no reason for it when you look at the whole voluntary Presidency. I would say that this is a superfluous proposal. We do not need it, we do not know examples of those who have not been able to get free. So I would like to ask the rapporteur whether there is one tangible example in which an employer said no to the fact that a Home Guarder has been able to get off duty. This has to be seen in the light of the fact that the National Guard has, in recent years, not only been sent abroad, but also abroad. When you're sent out, you get paid, you're hired on a contract basis. That means you have to leave the original job you have. Not in any of these cases, I know that there has been a single situation in which the individual and the employer have not been able to find out, because it is the desire that drives the work. I hope the rapporteur agrees with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412160917	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412160920	I don't have any concrete evidence with a named employer. It's not like I just pulled out of the blue hat. It is a proposal that has come because Home Guard personnel have come to me as Home Guard rapporteur. They have been pleased that there is a party that has chosen to dedicate a person to plead their case, and therefore they have told me that they need to have a better framework in order to be free. That is why I have chosen to make this proposal. In relation to the fact that the presidency of the voluntary Council structure has said one thing to Mr. Bjarne Laustsen, I just have to admit that once they've been past my office, it's been something else I've been told. I have been thanked for putting forward the proposal we are debating here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412161010	Sir. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412161012	I don't think so, sir. Jeppe Jakobsen is the only one that National Guards talk to. I know that Home Guard people are talking to virtually all the rapporteurs in this area. That is why I am a little surprised that there is this situation where you say that you know nothing about it, that you have not heard anything about it. But the Danish People's Party has heard something about it, which is why I think it would be fine if there were just one example from the real open country that this is a huge problem. Because then we'd have to deal with it. Now the National Guard is 67 years old, delivering 21⁄2 million hours. The police alone last year was 132,000 hours without problems. I think we should praise them for this rather than inventing problems that do not seem to exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412161055	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412161058	No, it may be difficult to give specific examples, because if you are in the situation as a Home Guard soldier that you have a problem with your boss about getting off work, you do not want to sound it out in the wider public, as it then points to a problemy relationship. It is precisely in order to protect the working situation of Home Guard workers that we have put forward this proposal, and it is on the basis of requests from Home Guard people who say that they have this problem that we have made it.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412161135	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Defence Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412161156	The debate is open. And the first rapporteur is Mr. Mogens Jensen, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412161224	Thank you, Minister, for your statement. As it clearly shows, the work of the Council of Europe and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has also naturally been marked by the violent events which have affected Europe in recent years: the crisis in Ukraine, the series of terrorist attacks and the massive influx of refugees and migrants. These are essential and also natural areas of work for the Council of Europe, whose core areas are the promotion of human rights, the development of democracy and the promotion of the rule of law. In response to the terrorist attacks in Paris and Copenhagen in January and February 2015 respectively, and unfortunately again in Brussels recently, an action plan has been drawn up for the role of the Council of Europe in the fight against radicalisation, which could lead to terrorism. This includes strengthening the legal instruments for combating terrorism, including the preparation of an additional protocol to the Council of Europe's Convention on Terrorism, which criminalises certain acts and which may be particularly relevant in combating foreign fighters, on the one hand, and the establishment of concrete mechanisms and initiatives in the education sector, in the prison system and on the Internet, on the other hand, to help prevent and combat radicalisation. Fortunately, there has been broad support in the work for this action plan, which I think the Council of Europe came quickly across the ramp. However, the implementation of the plan now needs to be followed up, as well as the need, in our view, to strengthen cooperation between the most affected international organisations in this area, the United Nations, the OSCE and the European Union, and, of course, in the Council of Europe. And here it is essential that we have an opportunity to use the combined force of the 47 Member States of the Council of Europe to do what we can to stop the vile terror. The massive influx of refugees and migrants into Europe has also called for action by the Council of Europe. It has marked the debate both in the Council of Ministers and in those of us who work in the Parliamentary Assembly. And the main focus here has naturally been on those areas in which the Council of Europe, by virtue of its mandate, has had a special opportunity to contribute solutions to the crisis, not least in the area of human rights. I think it has been very sensible for the Secretary-General to have appointed the former Ambassador of the Czech Republic, Bocek, as his special representative to try to coordinate a concerted effort in the Council of Europe in the area of refugees. And, of course, it is crucial that the Council of Europe helps to combat the trafficking in human beings, which means that a great many refugees are putting their lives at risk in order to get within Europe's borders. In short, I think it can be said that the Council of Europe's efforts here should be in two areas. In the short term, we must concentrate our efforts on refugees and the human rights of migrants. In the longer term, the Council of Europe must support the work of ensuring integration in the individual Member States. In addition, however, the Council of Europe should also do its part to increase its focus on the contribution of the whole of Europe to strengthening efforts in the neighbourhoods of refugees. A large number of European countries are contributing very little here. And I expect the government, with the Minister for Foreign Affairs in the lead, to also raise this agenda under the auspices of the Council of Europe and very much to join with the other Nordic countries. Russia is and remains a major challenge as one of the major Member States of the Council of Europe. Their totally unacceptable behaviour in Crimea and eastern Ukraine remains one of the main issues in the work of the Council of Europe, including the pressure exerted by Russia on other countries in the region, in particular Georgia and Moldova. In addition, there is the domestic situation in Russia with the introduction of discriminatory legislation against, among other things: sexual minorities; laws that also affect the work of independent NGOs; and the totally inadequate implementation of the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. In addition, a law has now been introduced in Russia under which a ruling by an international court should not be complied with if a Russian Constitutional Court considers it to be contrary to Russian law. You cannot use international binding conventions and courts for anything if a country believes that they can simply interpret common laws and rules themselves. So we need the Council of Europe to put maximum pressure on Russia. And the Parliamentary Assembly has decided so far to suspend Russia's right to vote in parliament. However, I think it is extremely important to emphasise that we need to maintain a dialogue with Russia. And it will only escalate a crisis and create a breeding ground for further escalation if, as some have suggested, Russia is excluded from the Council of Europe. However, in other Member States of the Council of Europe too, there is great reason to be concerned about developments. In Turkey, anti-terrorism legislation is now used as a means of totally unacceptable restriction of freedom of expression, especially in the form of arrests of a number of journalists and editors and state takeovers of the government-critical newspaper Zaman. In Poland, de facto government control of public service media is being introduced and the Constitutional Court is being stunned. And the continuing critical human rights situation in Azerbaijan has now led to the withdrawal of the Council of Europe from a joint working group on the human rights situation, which is, of course, one of them. This is due to the imprisonment of a number of human rights defenders and a number of other conditions which make Azerbaijan perhaps the most serious violation of the European Convention on Human Rights. So the work being done in the Council of Europe to promote human rights, democracy and the rule of law is therefore needed at this time. There is also a need for funds to be put behind and done in concrete terms. And that is what Denmark does through our neighbourhood programme, where we support and have supported a number of Council of Europe's activities in Ukraine, Moldova, Georgia, Russia and Armenia. After all, we can pride ourselves on the fact that in 2015 we were number one among the voluntary contributors to the Council of Europe. We have supported a reform of the Ukrainian Public Prosecutor's Office. We have supported the work of the Council of Europe on reforms in the judicial sector in Georgia. In Russia, we have supported efforts to promote effective public monitoring of prison conditions for prisoners. And in Armenia, we have launched a larger programme to strengthen democracy and human rights, just as we are also working in that area in Moldova. But here too, the government's cuts of 200 million are hitting. kr. on the External Action Service now work to promote democracy and human rights. The neighbourhood programme is being cut so that we go from helping seven countries to helping only two countries: Ukraine and Georgia. And I think there is reason to regret this at a time when we in Europe are seeing more and more countries among our closest neighbours, where both democratic development and the human rights situation are going the wrong way. Of course, that picture also includes the fact that the Foreign Minister's party, the governing party, actually promised to add 70 million to the External Action Service before the elections. kr. Now you cut 200 million. kr. Along with the billions of cuts in aid to the developing countries. See, the Council of Europe is not as well known as the European Union, but the Council of Europe has an important function in the European House as a champion of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. After all, in the Council of Europe we have as many as 47 countries as members, and thus also an opportunity for dialogue and joint action that goes beyond the opportunities we have with the 28 Member States of the European Union. I think we should use this wisely and actively for the common good of a Europe that needs cooperation and cohesion more than ever.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412162208	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412162214	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Mogens Jensen, who over the years has made a great effort in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, where I have also had the honour of working with the Socialist rapporteur. Fifth One thing that I find worrying in the development of the Council of Europe, and which has unfortunately been the case for a long time, is the failure to comply with the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights, and there we see, unfortunately, as we can also see in the statement by the Foreign Minister, that Azerbaijan, Russia and also Turkey are leading in this. After all, we have had the discussion here in the Assembly, in relation to what we should do about this EU-Turkey agreement, and there was an amendment tabled by Enhedslisten that it should be assumed that before Denmark could pay out money to Turkey this more than a quarter of a billion euros would then have to fulfil its obligations to follow the decisions of the Court of Human Rights. The Socialists voted against this. But how can we press for countries to follow the decisions of the Court?
ParlaMint-DK_20160412162326	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412162329	As a starting point, I think that this is a very real problem raised by Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and it is a common challenge for us what we are doing in relation to those countries which do not comply with the conventions and therefore also with the rights that they themselves have signed up to. However, I do not believe that the solution to this is to create even greater problems for other groups in need who need help and who, in an agreement with Turkey, are now trying to help by blocking initiatives to help refugees and migrants in Turkey, on the grounds that Turkey does not meet a number of standards and decisions of the Court of Human Rights. I do not think that is the way forward, which is why the Socialists could not support the proposal from the Enhedslisten. But we must together find stronger tools to put pressure on those countries that do not comply with the decisions of the Court of Human Rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412162435	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412162437	Thank you. In other words, the problem is, as I see it, that Turkey is currently creating refugees. They are seriously assaulting the refugees who came from Syria, for example, and they then create their own refugees in the eastern part of Turkey. After all, Turkey is already obliged to comply with the Convention on Human Rights, and they are obliged to follow the Court of Human Rights. So what are the Socialists thinking in concrete terms? If we are not to withhold money, as the Enhedslisten proposes, what is it that is specifically proposed by the Socialist Group in the European Parliament?
ParlaMint-DK_20160412162514	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412162516	Unfortunately, there is not just a snapshot solution to the challenge of getting some of the Member States to comply with both human rights but also the decisions of the Court of Human Rights. I just think that the solution is not to give Turkey the means to create tolerable conditions for the refugees who are in Turkey. It will only make worse, and that is why it is not a solution that the Socialists have been able to endorse.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412162551	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we go to the next rapporteur, and here it is Mrs Tilde Bork, but she has become ill, so that is Mr Tilde Bork. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party. I could see that it wasn't an Tilde who walked here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412162611	No, I haven't had a sex-change operation. Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his statement. It has given an overview of the activities of the Council of Europe, and that is excellent. As has been mentioned, there are some focus areas. There has been Ukraine, there has been terrorism and there has been the refugee situation in Europe. It is excellent that the Council of Europe is helping Ukraine to ensure that it is well-functioning, which is among other things. This will take the form of reform of the judiciary, reform of the electoral system, anti-corruption policy, decentralization, etc. We think that it is very good that we can meet in a forum such as the Council of Europe and give each other good advice, since ordinary cooperation and a generally good dialogue promote understanding. However, we would also like to warn against the fact that the European Court of Human Rights, like national democracies and, moreover, the rule of law, dictates what they must say, do and think. We believe that this is a slippery path in relation to the general government of the people. Now the Social Democrat rapporteur mentioned democracy many times, and I would therefore like to stress that democracy is quite popular. This means that the particular different peoples around the various countries decide for themselves who they want to deploy and are themselves co-decision-making in relation to the legislation. A great deal can be said about the European Convention on Human Rights. Some of this is, of course, common sense, but I would say that there is also an abstract flight of reality over it, and that there is a link of interpretation in what makes things that were originally meant in one way mean something else all of a sudden. We believe that this is a problem, also because the convention regime seems, at times, quite destructive in relation to each country, among other things. Denmark, can solve the problems at national level that are actually being faced, in line with the immigrant and refugee crisis and the terror. After all, it is no secret that we would like to see an immediate halt in the case of refugees, which means that a permanent border control is actually being carried out with asylum treatment at the border, especially when the European Union cannot find out. But it is clear that it is good that there is good cooperation. It is good that we can talk, and we support that in the way we do, and we will therefore also contribute to the dialogue. Yes, and then we can only impress upon the government that it continues to work for Denmark's interests in this cooperation. That's all. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412163009	That is not quite so, because there are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412163015	Thank you. The rapporteur of the Danish People's Party speaks of a convention regime. I hope we can agree that there are no countries that are being held up to conventions that they have not signed themselves, and those countries could resign from those conventions if they so wished. If we agree on that, I would really like to hear the background to the position of the Danish People's Party in relation to the abuses that are taking place quite specifically right now in Poland. We have seen in the past that the Danish People's Party has chosen to hold its hand over the Hungarian Government. When the Hungarian Government committed very serious abuse, among other things. In relation to the freedom of the press, the Danish People's Party member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe was a very powerful force for the Council of Europe not to become as much involved as it could have been, but simply to protect the Hungarian Government against criticism of these abuses. Does the Danish People's Party plan to do the same to the government in Poland?
ParlaMint-DK_20160412163120	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412163121	In other words, the Enhedslisten's rapporteur needs to clarify what we are talking about and then I can answer it afterwards. But I would like to say one thing, and that is that I actually believe that there is a huge problem. Firstly, we have the historic agreements that the conventions are. They have been concluded at a certain time under some other conditions, which means that they make it very difficult for individual nation states, including Denmark, to adapt as they wish. That's the first thing. The second is that there is a long practice of interpretation which has meant that the wording of the conventions at the time has, in fact, slowly come to mean something else. Is there any way to discuss this? Can it be said that the conventions have just become old-fashioned, simply out of fashion, because they do not, so to speak, live up to the reality that exists today? You can, and that is what we are discussing here.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412163234	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412163237	You can have that attitude. That position is undoubtedly shared by a great many Members of Parliament in Hungary, in Poland, in the Duma in Russia, in the Ankara Parliament building. There the Danish People's Party, I think, has relatively strong support for this view among conservative and Islamist forces. But what puzzles me is that it is not the policy of the Danish People's Party that an agreement is an agreement. In other words, if a country has undertaken to comply with a convention, to follow a court's decisions, why should it not be Danish policy? In this context, I would like to ask: was this lack of consistency in relation to agreements the reason why the Danish People's Party did not vote in favour of the Enhedslisten's proposal that Turkey should not have money unless they complied with the agreements with the Council of Europe that had already been concluded?
ParlaMint-DK_20160412163327	Thank you. I would like to recommend that we keep to the speaking time. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412163332	I am well aware that when serious, objective and critical questions are asked about this convention regime, the Enhedslisten is there, among other things. to shoot me in the shoes that I should belong to such a darkened branch of an Islamist sect or something like that or at least something associated with it. I'm fully aware of that, and it won't bite me. But what I want to say is that there are, in fact, some Danes who agree that this convention regime has gone too far because it is going in and shorting the popular government and the ordinary elected democracy that we have in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412163414	Thank you. There are still a few brief comments. The next one's from sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412163422	Thank you. What is agreed between the Danish People's Party and the Enhedslisten is that we should not be in any supranational bodies where a majority outside the Danish population can impose on the Danish population or the Danish government some things that the government or the population is opposed to. We agree on that. But that is precisely why the Council of Europe is something else. The Council of Europe is precisely a place where we base ourselves on conventions which we ourselves have signed up to and from which we can depart. Sir. Christian Langballe can make all the criticisms he wants to make of all conventions, but then the logic must also be that if you arrive that you don't want to be in them, you get out of them. But as long as you're in them, is it quite reasonable to submit to them or is it misunderstood? Can you imagine a situation in which you are included in conventions but, by the way, you are not complying with them?
ParlaMint-DK_20160412163520	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412163522	Pretty much a deal is a deal. I belong in Jutland, and when you shake hands, it's a deal, finished work. Yeah, I get that. But I would say that I have never been in love with the Refugee Convention. I haven't been in love with the stateless convention. I think it is totally unreasonable that someone who is suspected of being a threat to the security of the empire should be given citizenship here in Denmark because of a convention. I think that is so crazy. That is what I would like to draw your attention to. Has there been any willingness to listen to that criticism? There isn't. I do not regard these conventions as ever valid from now on, until the sun burns out, to use the expression of a prime minister. I regard them as historical documents and agreements which can of course be made on the day when they do not measure up to reality, and in fact there are a great many conventions that do not.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412163623	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412163625	Well, I totally agree with that. That's one of them. Therefore, a lot of additional conventions have been drawn up for the conventions that exist. It is because one has become wiser along the way and has realised that one has to add something to the conventions or perhaps change them a little. I fully agree with Mr Seligman on this point. Christian Langballe in, but that's not what we're discussing. What we are discussing is that as long as there is a majority in favour of being party to a convention, internationally binding cooperation is based on the fact that that convention is actually being observed. And then there is no excuse for not complying with that convention, because then there is no international legal order, and I suppose that is not the case, Mr President. Christian Langballe will.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412163704	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412163706	I would now like to point out that we are actually living in a rule of law in Denmark. This means that it is something that has been built up as a solid framework around Danish society. That's what this is all about. In fact, you can think what you want about the things that are going on in Turkey. It certainly does not go my way, but on the other hand I think it may also be an arrogance without equal if there is someone in some body who is constantly going to dictate to individual nation states how they do every single thing in detail.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412163751	There is another brief comment from Mrs Zenia Stampe, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412163759	Now the rapporteur was talking about what kind of conventions we did not really like, but that is really what I would like to ask. What kind of conventions are these, or what kind of rights in the Danish People's Party are they?
ParlaMint-DK_20160412163813	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412163816	It is the right to citizenship in Denmark because you are stateless. Of course, there is a framework for it, because of how high you have set the bar. For example, you have. I think it is very high before you are included in this convention. I think that's crazy. I think it's totally crazy. It's one of those conventions. In relation to the refugee convention, I also believe that Denmark should pursue its own refugee policy. Why do I mean that? I do so because it is a duty imposed on the Danish people, which then leaves the voters to pay the bill for a convention that is not up to date. That is why I am critical of the Refugee
ParlaMint-DK_20160412163902	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412163904	Today I am very inquisitive. I am not at all a polemic, because the next question I would like to ask is: what is the attitude to comply with court rulings? Does the Danish People's Party believe that Denmark should comply with the decisions, or does the Danish People's Party think that we should sometimes ignore them?
ParlaMint-DK_20160412163922	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412163924	In fact, I would say that if the European Court of Human Rights came up with a judgment that directly disavowed a position that we have taken here, I would say that it could be ignored in all honesty.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412163945	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412163951	It's just that I'm a little curious about this whole convention thing. Personally, I am very much in favour of conventions because we make some international ground rules and we are able to act together when there are common challenges, such as a refugee challenge. So it is just for me to understand it: does the Danish People's Party want us to abolish the refugee convention, for example, that we are not in anything at all, or do we want to create a new convention that ensures international cooperation on these refugee challenges?
ParlaMint-DK_20160412164023	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412164025	As far as I know, we're connected around the clock, and it may be that I'm wrong about 500 conventions; that's the number I've heard. Many of them are excellent, and many of them follow the general international and also national legal order we have in Denmark. But when conventions become such a question of wanting to dictate a particular policy to a population, among other things. in the area of foreigners, or in relation to how many or how few refugees are to be taken, etc., I think we have a problem, because then it is not really up to us to decide more. Then you could really just have an executive body that, so to speak, simply sat and dictated what the individual countries had to do. Would it be a government of the people? I don't think it would.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412164114	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412164117	Now the rapporteur himself mentioned the refugee convention earlier and that is why I am asking about it. Does the Danish People's Party want us to simply step out of the Convention, that it does not exist, or do we want to create a new convention that will enable us to deal internationally with the refugee challenge, as we have to say is a cross-border problem which requires a cross-border solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20160412164142	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412164144	I think it's good that you can work together on a lot of things. I am not against cooperation, that is not at all what we are talking about. Now I would like to say that I do not think that European cooperation or the European Union at all is handling this crisis very well. Actually, I don't think they do. I believe that they are at their knees and I believe that the external borders, which should have been secured by Schengen, are not guaranteed at all. This means that the very premise of being in something called the internal market and having something called free movement is gone. I think it is excellent to work together on some things, but I would say that in relation to foreign policy it is therefore the Danes, the Danish people and the Danish Parliament who have to decide for themselves how many or how few people will take.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412164230	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412164241	Our European values and principles are under pressure. This can be felt to such an extent in relation to the challenges that the Council of Europe is working on. Respect for human rights and international agreements is no longer something we can take for granted in Europe. Most remarkable is the fact that the fundamental respect for national borders is strongly challenged. In fact, we have not seen this since the end of World War II. In this respect, of course, I am thinking primarily of Russia, which continues to maintain the occupation of the Crimean Peninsula in Ukraine. In addition, as you know, Russia has established a puppet government in eastern Ukraine, where Russian soldiers continue to participate in daily battles against the Ukrainian army. Peace in Europe is no longer something we can take for granted when people die every day in regular combat in Europe. That is why, more than ever, the Council of Europe and the fundamental values on which post-war Europe was built are needed. We need to return to a normal situation in Europe where goods and not tanks cross borders. This may sound like a modest ambition, but given the developments over the last two years, it is actually an ambitious objective. There are a number of Member States of the Council of Europe where there is particular reason to keep an eye on the situation with regard to basic rights. Georgia remains under monitoring and progress is being made in a number of areas, including: with Danish help. However, there are also serious problems within Georgia's territory, especially in the de facto Russian occupied territories, Abkhazia and South Ossetia. International observers do not have access to these areas, which is why it is completely impossible to seriously identify the human rights problems that exist in the occupied territories. Therefore, massive pressure should continue to be exerted on Russia so that access to all parts of Georgia is available for foreign observers and so that it can be monitored whether both Russia and Georgia fulfil their international obligations. In the same context, it is very worrying that Russia is constantly moving the de facto border between South Ossetia and Georgia. It is, in fact, a direct provocation to the international community and, above all, the rules and standards that normally apply. It goes without saying that a country that wants to prove itself a modern, civilised country cannot simply move its border posts at will. In the last two years, the conflict in Ukraine is the one that has filled the most for the Council of Europe. At the same time, the conflict has spread to the parliamentary assembly's own ranks, where there is more disagreement than there may be in the past. The tradition of consensus and soft power is being wiped away. It is both a strength and a weakness. When the House speaks with one tongue, it is a strong message that can be delivered. On the other hand, agreement means that the clear political position is blurred and that the resolutions become vague and without substance. It can no longer be said that the House is merely adopting vague and empty statements. For a majority of the assembly has repeatedly adopted strong condemnations of the Russian occupation of Crimea and the continued military involvement in eastern Ukraine. For Europe, there is only one acceptable solution to the crisis in Ukraine and it is that Ukraine is given the opportunity to re-establish control of the border with Russia. That point is also part of the Minsk agreement, but there is much evidence that it will be extremely difficult to get this part implemented, because the will of the Russians is simply not there. That is why we still need to put severe pressure on Russia from a united Europe. If Ukraine cannot control its own borders, it will be impossible to restore stability in that country, and precisely stability is the prerequisite for the country's return to economic recovery, so that in Ukraine there is a future for its inhabitants. After all, the conflict in Ukraine is based on the crucial fact that Russia will not accept that Ukraine is an independent country. It is well known that the Kremlin simply believes that Ukraine should be part of Russia. This is partly due to the common history, but at least as much to Russia's territorial ambitions and to its desire to dominate the countries referred to as the near country. These ambitions are reflected in the kind of bully behaviour we have seen in recent years. That is why it is necessary to stress that Ukraine, and only Ukraine, will decide in which direction it should go. It is not Russian threats and tanks that have to decide whether Ukraine will move towards democracy, openness and integration in Europe, or whether it should be integrated into the Russian customs union together with a number of the other former Soviet republics. The work of the Council of Europe is based on fundamental European freedoms, including freedom of assembly and freedom of expression. In a number of countries, these values are under great pressure. This applies in particular to Azerbaijan, Russia and Turkey. In all three countries critical journalists are imprisoned or killed under mysterious circumstances. It is, of course, absolutely unacceptable that these three countries do not guarantee their own citizens the most basic freedoms and that their citizens cannot express their opinion without the risk of imprisonment or violence. This should be a fundamental right for all Europeans. There have been many challenges in the field of activity of the Council of Europe over the last year, and most of the challenges lie in the eastern part of Europe. However, there is also a challenge that the whole continent shares and where effective cooperation is needed, and that is the threat of terrorism. Europe has been hit repeatedly over the last year. The attack on the Krudtønde and the synagogue here in Copenhagen shook us all, and fear hung in the air over Copenhagen long after. Paris was hit several times and, most recently, Brussels has also been hit. The senseless killing and cowardly behavior of terrorists calls for action. It is therefore quite appropriate that the Council of Europe has adopted an action plan against terrorism. Of course, this can never be as binding as it is within the framework of the European Union, but, despite this, we all need to focus on the fight against terrorism. At the same time, it is important that we in the Council of Europe also focus on the fact that the fight against terrorism does not become a lever to suppress citizens' rights. This can rightly be feared when it comes to countries such as Russia and Turkey. Finally, I would like to thank the other Danish delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe for their commitment to the work. It is an important work which takes place in the Council of Europe, even if it rarely hits the headlines in the Danish media. For Denmark, it is essential that the Council of Europe contribute added value to the other cooperation structures in Europe. The Council of Europe should not only be a talking club, but instead be an important forum for the countries of Europe, where its announcements are taken seriously. The focus on added value will therefore be a focal point when Denmark holds the chair of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe from November 2017 to May 2018, and in this respect, as chairman of the delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly, I will look forward to continued good cooperation with Denmark's representative, our Ambassador to Strasbourg, with whom I also think we have a very good and constructive cooperation. In those words, I shall conclude my speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412165200	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party. Sir. I call Mr Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412165214	These were some very hard things that came about Russia and also about Ukraine, where I could understand that the Left has some very strong views. What I might think could be an idea was also to have a discussion of the internal situation at the moment in Ukraine and the corruption there is and the fact that the current government has actually fallen apart because there is no control over internal affairs. Is that not also part of the explanation that it is so difficult? I understand that the Left almost makes Russia the great enemy. Isn't it a little strange we're gonna have to fight with them in Syria? It's our allies down there, isn't it with Assad?
ParlaMint-DK_20160412165259	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412165300	Thank you. To the end, sir. Holger K. Nielsen knows that no, Russia is not our allies in the fight against ISIL. We may have some Therefore, those who are our allies are part of the coalition and only the coalition. As far as Ukraine is concerned, I actually agree with much of what Mr. Holger K. Nielsen says. Corruption is a huge problem. Denmark is, of course, and will continue to give a great deal of support to combat, among other things. corruption and ensuring good governance in the programme. We see, for example. The governor of Odessa, the former Georgian president, very actively fight against corruption, but have difficulty because there are other forces fighting the opposite way. That is why I agree. There is much to be done within Ukraine. But no matter what, it is also harder to solve the internal problems when at the same time you have such a great enemy as you have in Russia.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412165404	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412165407	That is what cannot be used in the long term as an excuse for some problems created internally by a defective political system and by a President who has not been able to resolve it. Surely we need to address, including in the Council of Europe and elsewhere, the fact that they have created a system that is completely dysfunctional in Ukraine. It must also play some kind of role. On Russia: would the rapporteur not agree that there is a fantastic zigzag course in relation to Russia, too, on the Left side? One moment it is almost our enemy, and they must be completely isolated, and the other moment you fight de facto side by side with them.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412165454	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412165456	No, I would say that we have a very balanced approach to the situation, and that is, of course, because the situation is very sensitive. We know that there are different parties who have interests in the Syria conflict, and that is why we must balance it as well as we can now. And I think we handle that very professionally. Does this mean that we just don't care what happens in Russia? No, not at all. We are very steadfast in pointing this out when there are undemocratic forces in Russia. In relation to Ukraine: well, I do agree that there is a lot to be done. And I can say that the Danish delegation is actually going to Ukraine after the summer break to get a snapshot of the whole situation as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412165541	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412165544	I would like to thank the rapporteur for a very positive speech in relation to the Council of Europe. I'd like to sign for that. I would therefore like to know what the position of the rapporteur and the position of the Left is, that there is still a block in the European Union to join the European Convention on Human Rights and the European Court of Human Rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412165606	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412165608	Well, I am a great advocate of the European Union becoming part of this convention as well, and I have said this publicly several times. I think it should be a basic European right. It is then possible to discuss the impact it will have on everyday life, and there can be a lot of lawyers in it quickly, because all the Member States of the European Union are already members of the Council of Europe. But I understand that it sends out a clear signal, and I think that signal is also important. And I am certainly one of those who think that European human rights are fundamental human rights, which should be something we uphold and fight for in everyday life.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412165646	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412165647	I would like to thank the rapporteur. Shouldn't we among the parliamentary parties try to find an opportunity to discuss what can be done in relation to it? Now it is now 7 years since the Treaty of Lisbon came into force, and despite the clear promise made in connection with the Treaty of Lisbon, the EU still has a blocking effect to join the European Convention on Human Rights. It is, after all, a blockage that is on the European Union's side alone. I think this is serious and it poses some serious questions to the European Union. So will the rapporteur possibly give an undertaking that we in a circle here in the Danish Parliament tried to discuss what initiative Denmark could take in this regard?
ParlaMint-DK_20160412165731	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412165732	I must admit that I am confident that Mr. Søren Søndergaard's former colleagues in the European Parliament can also deal with this issue, because I think it is more the Members of the European Parliament who should be those who, as a parliamentary assembly, are pushing the EU system to agree to this. I don't think that's a parliamentary matter. That is my position.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412165751	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412165756	Thank you for that, and thank you to the rapporteur, both for the commendation of the important work of the Council of Europe and also for the work I know the rapporteur is doing in the Council of Europe. I very much share the concern about developments in Azerbaijan and Russia and Turkey. I think that a problem we have with the Council of Europe is that it is now not only Russia, but also Turkey, which is in the group of major contributors to the Council of Europe. It is not certain that we can stand here and have just as positive a view of the work of the Council of Europe if this organisation becomes financially dependent on those countries which are guilty of the greatest failure in relation to their obligations to the Council of Europe. So I would like to hear from the rapporteur of the Left whether we share that concern and what we in the Left think we can do on the Danish side to counter developments.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412165855	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412165856	I recognise that the countries concerned will use it as an argument. After all, we have already seen that they have used that argument from Russia when they say that we are major contributors, so now you must listen to us too. PS, by the way, we saved you during World War II. I recognise that clearly, because it is very clear to hear that, and I also have great hopes that Turkey might come up with it. But I just don't really think we should buy that argument, and I don't think we will either. Fortunately, in the Parliamentary Assembly there was a clear majority in favour of the sanctions against Russia, which I thought were necessary, and if at any time there is discussion of sanctions against Turkey and Azerbaijan, which I have heard some Members talk about, then I also believe that there will be Members voting in favour of it, even though the countries concerned may be warning of the economic repercussions of such a sanction. What this is all about, which is also what I was trying to say in my speech, is that we have to say at some point that enough is enough, and that is why the instrument of sanctions is important.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412170005	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412170008	The problem is, of course, what consequences it will have if those countries withdraw their financial support. As can be seen from the Foreign Minister's statement, the Council of Europe is doing an important job, also with Danish support, in relation to Ukraine, for example, with attempts to reform the legal system and the Constitution. But is there not a problem if Denmark and other countries wishing to be pioneers in respect of human rights do not contribute any more and if the countries that are failing human rights and consistently intend to use their contributions as an excuse for not getting criticism of their serious crimes, give more and more money to the organisation?
ParlaMint-DK_20160412170049	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412170050	It doesn't come as a big surprise that that was it, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen thought when he was in the middle of his first question. But we have a very fair distribution of the economy in the Council of Europe, and I see no reason why it should change, not at all. I think the way it is is very, very fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412170108	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Mogens Jensen, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412170113	Thank you and also thank the rapporteur of the Left for the cooperation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. As I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, it is of course the case that we in Denmark have also specifically supported activities, the development of democracy and the promotion of the rule of law in many countries. Now the government is cutting with the huge savings of 200 million. kr. on the External Action Service, down on the activities of our neighbourhood programme, which are being reduced from today's seven countries to covering only two countries in the future: Ukraine and Georgia. Does the rapporteur not think that it is quite a declaration of failure on the part of Denmark that we now need to reduce our efforts in such an important area as this one, especially when the Left said before the elections that 70 million would be paid? kr. To the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? Now it also affects the activities of the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412170220	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412170221	Well, it is no secret that when we took over government, we took over a more difficult economic situation than we expected. It showed the cashier's checkup that we did after the election. That is why everyone had to stand by, so to speak, and that is also what we have seen in the area of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Having said that, it is important to say that we are not doing anything where we are pulling on the emergency brake or anything at all. The five countries concerned are slowly being phased out. At the same time, of course, we still have two priority countries which I think are the two absolutely most important: Ukraine and Georgia; the two countries, as if they were being pressured violently from Russia and where we can really make a difference. So I must admit that I warmly support the priority that has been given by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that these are the two countries that are still being given as massive priority as they are doing. I wish we'd found a money tree and then could spend more money? Yeah, but I haven't found that money tree yet, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412170320	Sir. Mogens Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412170322	The reality is that you knew that you would cut back on the other activities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. When you cut down as sharply as you do on foreign aid, this automatically means that you also have to reduce in the other expenditures of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I think the rapporteur is well aware of this. So the thing about it being a cashier's checkup: don't do that. It has a consequence of cutting back, and I understand that the rapporteur is satisfied with that consequence. I also understand that he is pleased that it is not being implemented after the elections, as was said to be the case before the elections. Of course, I find that regrettable.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412170400	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412170401	I said in the first part of the answer that if we had an economic situation as bad as it was, then it took a tough priority. We were forced to do the hardest priority, and that is why we took two countries out and said that we can continue with the two countries. We can give priority to these two countries at a very high level and with a number of forces that are also needed, for example. in Ukraine in relation to anti-corruption, etc. I have to say that in view of how difficult the situation was at that time, I think it is actually good that we are still so massively present.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412170432	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412170441	Thank you. I would say that I think it is important to have the debate here today. It is important to focus on the work of the Council of Europe, and in this context I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for taking the debate with the Danish Parliament and also for the statement, which highlights the fact that the Council of Europe is doing a great deal of work and that Denmark is indeed doing a good job through the Council of Europe and, unfortunately, often overlooked work. I also think it is important to focus on the work of the Council of Europe, because some misunderstandings have arisen in the course of today. For example, the Danish People's Party rapporteur managed to get the Council of Europe messed up with both the United Nations and the European Union, and I would like to say that it is important to stress that it is not and cannot be an excuse for the Danish People's Party to let Hungary run away from their agreements and allow Turkey to run away from their agreements, that you are tired of the refugee convention or the stateless convention, because it has absolutely nothing to do with the Council of Europe. Instead, I think we should stand together here in the Folketing and insist that the agreements that other countries have undertaken to comply with together with us in cooperation in the Council of Europe should not run away, and we should remind them of them when we discuss this, including in the Parliamentary Assembly. The Danish People's Party was not eager to do so when we discussed Hungary. I hope that the Danish People's Party will be eager or start to be so when we discuss Poland and developments in Turkey. The Council of Europe plays an important role in bringing together the countries of Europe. It brings together the countries from Iceland to Azerbaijan, from Portugal to Russia, a common commitment to respect human rights and to follow the decisions of the Court of Human Rights. I have to say that, unfortunately, we are seeing a very worrying development in these years; we are seeing a development in which fundamental democratic rights are under pressure; we are seeing serious problems in Azerbaijan, where the opposition is being imprisoned and prosecuted; we are seeing serious violations in Russia, where civil society organisations are being hunted and closed and civil society organisations are being accused of being foreign agents; but unfortunately, we are also seeing this filthy development in countries such as Hungary and Poland. Here are fundamental rights under pressure from current governments. In Hungary, civil society organisations are being hunted to the best of Russian style. In Poland, the country's constitution and therefore fundamental democratic rights are being trampled underfoot, and I think this is a worrying development. This is a development on which the European Union, as an institution, has very little focus, as it is its own countries in which the violations take place. I think it shows that the Council of Europe is an important organisation because it highlights the problems and criticises the violations wherever they take place. This is absolutely crucial, I think, for both the Danish Government and the delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly support the Council of Europe in this criticism. No matter where the violations take place, whether it is in Hungary, Turkey, Russia, Azerbaijan or Poland, criticism should fall from the Council of Europe. Similarly, we have seen that the Council of Europe has played an important role, I think, in criticising the consequences of the European Union's economic policy in the context of the crisis. The Council of Europe has criticised the consequences of the reduction policy on social and democratic rights. Basically, we have often had a conflict over the past few years between two European institutions about what crisis policy should be pursued and what the consequences of this crisis policy might be. The Council of Europe has insisted that people's fundamental rights should not be compromised. I think this is important and I think it underlines the need for the European Union to also accede to the European Court of Human Rights and the Convention on Human Rights, because unfortunately we are seeing this conflict where two institutions, of which Denmark is a member, are fighting to deal with a crisis. Unfortunately, it seems that human rights are losing out. I do not think that is right and Denmark should put the need for EU accession to the Convention on Human Rights on the agenda. A place where we have seen violent violations of human rights is in Turkey. Right now we are discussing a great deal of the EU-Turkey agreement, and I have to say that I personally experienced the problems of the European Union's action towards Turkey when I was an election observer in Turkey for the Council of Europe in the autumn. Here we in the Council of Europe had a clear criticism of the violations of fundamental rights that took place: the imprisonment of journalists, the abuse of opposition parties, and the introduction of security zones in the Kurdish territories, so that the people and parties were prevented from campaigning. Here we made a clear criticism from the Council of Europe. Unfortunately, the European Union chose to hold its annual report until after the elections. I think it was shameful that the European Union acted in this way. I think it was positive that the Council of Europe was clear in its criticism, and this shows that it is absolutely essential that the Council of Europe is there to keep the human rights tab high when the EU chooses to conclude shady agreements to avoid refugees in Europe. We have also seen how the Court of Human Rights has issued urgent decisions in this new year, among other things. to ensure access to medical care for civilians in the besieged Kurdish areas of Turkey. The Turkish authorities have chosen not to follow this. They have instead bombed a large number of civilians in the affected areas, which were addressed by the Council of Europe. I think it is grotesque and I am sorry that a majority in the Danish Parliament rejected the Enhedslisten proposal that would have ensured a coherent Danish policy and that we did not come into a situation where we paid over a quarter of a billion tax dollars to a country that has committed itself to complying with the agreements and ensuring that, in relation to fundamental human rights, judicial decisions by the European Court of Human Rights are followed. That was not the position of the majority here in the Folketing, but I hope that Denmark will highlight the major problem: a large number of countries, not least Azerbaijan, Russia and Turkey, do not follow the rulings of the European Court of Human Rights. After all, Denmark is facing an important event when we are to be President of the Council of Europe in 2017. I would like to call clearly on the Foreign Minister to enter into dialogue with the parliamentary delegation of the Folketing to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I see that the Council of Europe can play an important role. I see that Denmark can make a very positive contribution to the work of the Council of Europe. Specifically, I see that the Council of Europe can play an important role in stopping the current race against the bottom in dealing with the refugee crisis. I see that the Council of Europe can play a very important role in the worrying development of human rights both within and outside the European Union, and I therefore believe that Denmark should give priority to the work of the Council of Europe. Right now we have a development which has also been discussed earlier today in this Chamber, where we see that both Russia and Turkey are in the category of major donors, in other words countries which are responsible for a large part of the Council of Europe's budget. It is worrying that the very same countries, which are responsible for a very large proportion of the violations and a very large proportion of the cases before the European Court of Human Rights and very, very little, are following judicial decisions, are those on which the Council of Europe is increasingly financially dependent. There it is absolutely crucial that we from Denmark try to work against this development. It would, of course, be positive if Denmark increased its contribution to the Council of Europe. It would be sensible if Denmark were to work for similar-minded countries, not least the Nordic countries and other countries, to do the same, so that we ensure that the Council of Europe also has the muscles to stand up for people's fundamental rights in the future wherever there is a need.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412171356	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. I see no rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance, so the next rapporteur is Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412171415	First of all, I would like to thank you for the government statement. I have read it with great interest and I welcome the work of the Council of Europe when I read it. I share the government's assessment of the importance of the Council, and I share the Government's concern about the human rights situation in, among others. Russia, Ukraine and Azerbaijan. The report bears witness to the special role of the Council of Europe as guardian of the European Convention on Human Rights and the fundamental principles of freedom and the rule of law. We must maintain that role, we must nurture it, and we must strengthen it. In the alternative, we see the Council of Europe as an important diplomatic actor. Europe, Denmark, indeed the whole world, needs inclusive communities based on strong principles, conventions and rights that insist on dialogue. For me, the Council of Europe is a lever for the kind of diplomacy that we in the Alternative would like to work to spread to other international organisations and to Denmark's bilateral relations. The will for diplomatic dialogue cannot always be taken for granted. Looking at global stability right now, there is a very worrying contour: the polarisation between the United States and Russia is growing, not least because of the war in Syria. Here, the Council of Europe's insistence on dialogue, even with a country such as Russia, is an important counter-play to dangerous and locked alliances that could have serious consequences for our global security. The Council's dialogue with Russia gives Europe a special role to play. The work of the Council of Europe here shows how we can act as a major diplomatic power from Europe without involving billions of dollars spent on military efforts. Of course, we should not overestimate the impact of the Council of Europe, but we should certainly not underestimate the work of the Council, especially the principles on which the work is based. The past year, as noted in the report, has been marked by the refugee and migrant crisis. It is a development that has become so much a European crisis, an unhappy development that has called into question our own ability to cooperate in Europe and our willingness to honour our international commitments. As the report shows, Europe faces major challenges when it comes to dealing with refugees and migrants, but also when it comes to integrating and integrating new citizens into our society. I very much agree with the analyses of the Council of Europe. Right now, it is crucial that we stand firm and uphold the common European principles and ideals. As stated in the report, the Council of Europe is dependent on Member States respecting the Council's principles of promoting human rights, democracy and the rule of law. That is why I perhaps miss the fact that the statement also addresses the challenge of Denmark, indeed the whole of Europe, to respect these principles. I would have liked the statement to have given a critical look at our, i.e. Denmark, compliance with the Council's recommendations and principles. What can we do better in Denmark? Furthermore, I think it would be a good idea for us at home to discuss more proactively how we work on the principles and recommendations of the Council in relation to the management of refugees and asylum seekers and in relation to the longer-term work on the fight against racism, social inclusion and integration. I think it is time for us to close our international cooperation more closely in our national political discussions and priorities. It is important that we safeguard the role of the Council of Europe as a standard setter, so that we have something to keep up with when the crisis scratches and political decisions are taken at very high speed. The Council of Europe must be a safeguard against a political slippery path that can undermine our standards and international commitments, even when it comes to developments in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412171834	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Zenia Stampe, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412171843	Thank you. I listened with enthusiasm to Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist's report, because I actually had the same feeling when I read the statement. I was happy, I was in a good mood. I do not think that there are many reasons for this, as developments take place, especially in Europe, with the many crises we are facing and the many problems we have in finding joint binding answers to those crises. However, I think it is a good thing to read this excellent statement, because it actually shows that, when it comes to this, we can find a way of putting ourselves together, the 47 Member States, and talking about what are our common values and principles and how we want to keep up with each other, even in times of crisis. I think that the Council of Europe is a very important framework to have for critical dialogue. It is true that the importance of the Council of Europe may not be overestimated, but it should not be underestimated either. It is important to have a place where one can hold one another up on common values and principles, but where one can also take it up when one sees that countries are moving in a worrying direction. We have had a very good look at this in the report here. Not least Turkey and Russia have been some of the countries with which we have been very concerned, and the development of those countries has been a great deal of concern to us here in the Folketing over the last few years. It is a good thing that even at a time of sanctions and so on. may have a critical dialogue. I believe that we should have that, even with those we are critical of, including those who are going in the wrong direction, and there is, I think, a very useful framework for the Council of Europe. Then it is also a very good framework for helping those countries that know well that there is something to criticise, here is something to pick up: countries that have an ambition to become even better democracies, even better rule of law, even better at respecting human rights, and that is where I welcome our efforts. Several have mentioned the neighbourhood programmes. I myself visited a delegation from Ukraine in connection with the reform of the Public Prosecutor's Office, and I think that was very interesting. This is an area that I sometimes think we tend to forget here in the Folketing because we are discussing the Middle East and North Africa so much. It may be no wonder, because these are the areas that are particularly challenging us with migrants and refugees, but we still have a moral obligation to help the new democracies in Eastern Europe. We have also seen how things can turn out if we do not continue to follow and assist those countries in achieving the democracies that they want, but which are not always so easy to get to so quickly. That is why I very much welcome the work we are doing. I am very proud of it and I think it could fill even more, even if we are already the largest contributor to the neighbourhood programmes. Now comes the more serious part, and that is again where I share the alternative's view that perhaps there might have been a little more self-criticism here, because the Council of Europe is not just about criticising the others; it is also about keeping itself or letting the others keep us up with our obligations and values. There is no doubt that the refugee and migrant crisis is a challenge for us too. It challenges us because we constantly have a discussion here in the Folketing about whether we are on one side or the other of the conventions. And there I think it is so important that we also recognise that it is not just a debate that is being held in Denmark. It is a debate that exists in many other parliaments and where, unfortunately, there is a tendency, not only in Denmark but also elsewhere, to compete by going as close to the border as possible. There is the Council of Europe where we should meet and agree that it is a competition that no one will win. Instead of going into the competition and making the rights bad and the treatment of foreigners so bad, you start to doubt whether it is in accordance with the conventions at all... then we have to agree on what rights we have to respect and find solutions within them. At any rate, I would like to note that the statement states that the Council of Europe has stressed that even in periods of mass immigration there can be no question of derogating from Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights on the Prohibition of Inhuman and Degrading Treatment. I think that is also important to include in our parliamentary work, because it is not rare for us to discuss whether we are now on the border or not, and it is certainly made clear here that there is no excuse. It is, moreover, a common issue that we face, and if we start to compromise human rights, so do the others. So if we intend to take the lead and fight for European human rights, we must at least respect them ourselves. Then I also welcomed this action plan to build an inclusive society in relation to the integration of refugees, which places emphasis on education, the fight against intolerance, anti-discrimination and effective integration. I think that is important too, and I am extremely happy to read this. After all, 47 Member States agree on this. This is something that is not entirely uncontroversial here in our Parliament. There are people who think that we should not integrate refugees at all, because they just have to return home. So these types of bets aren't prepared to go into at all. For me, it is certainly encouraging to note that in Europe there is therefore a majority in favour of integration and the fight against intolerance. The very last thing I would like to ask about the question I can of course also ask the Minister when he gets on the platform is this with Protocol 16, which says that it is under consideration whether Denmark should join it. Protocol 16 is the possibility that, as a Member State or a country's highest court, the Supreme Court, I assume, can ask the European Court of Human Rights for an opinion on the interpretation of the Convention on Human Rights. I think this can be a really useful tool, because it is, after all, ongoing that we are talking about whether new rules and laws are at odds with conventions. Instead of going and waiting for someone to raise a case and for it to take a long time before we get a verdict, it would be good to be able to go in and ask for a statement before sometimes. It is an instrument that I could have very high expectations of. I therefore regret that there is no clear Danish position, and I will ask that when the Minister has the floor. But it was probably from me.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412172537	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412172547	Thank you to Mrs Zenia Stampe for her speech and the strong defence of the Council of Europe. Surely there is only one thing the Radical Left defends more wholeheartedly than the Council of Europe, and that is the European Union. And now we are faced with the situation that, despite the promises made by the Treaty of Lisbon, as the Radicals recommended, the European Union has not yet got its way into the European Convention on Human Rights. I just want to know how the Radical Left feels about that conflict.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412172620	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412172622	Honestly, I don't know. I haven't discussed it before. I find it very difficult to imagine the reasons why the European Union should not be involved, but I have to go back and see if there are good reasons for this. I don't think so. Otherwise, sir. Søren Søndergaard makes me wiser if he knows good radical arguments against the EU being included in the European Convention on Human Rights. I don't have the imagination to imagine it. I do not think there are any arguments either, but I do not know what the issue is. Maybe I can get some clarification.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412172653	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412172654	The reason for this is that we have been negotiating for six years now to implement what the Treaty of Lisbon says. I myself was part of the delegation from the European Parliament that negotiated with the Council of Europe. I saw how strange conditions were constantly laid down and how the European Court of Justice has now entered and blocked accession. That is the problem that needs to be addressed. I have full respect for the fact that this problem has not just been dealt with, so I do not want to ask any further questions, but simply call for a look at the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412172729	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412172731	In this case, I would like to listen to a call from the Enhedslisten. I can only imagine that we will fight hard and hard to ensure that the European Union too can accede to the European Convention on Human Rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412172745	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412172753	It is as if the alternative and the rapporteur were playing out human rights and conventions against Denmark. It is sometimes said that some of those I represent go straight to the limit of the conventions, which can then be discussed afterwards. But I would say that there are also some who go the other way, to the second limit, and so to speak, the importance of these conventions expands. I would just like to ask: is it inhuman treatment to reject people at the border? Is it inhumane treatment to say that refugees should not be integrated? Is it contrary to the Convention, according to the rapporteur? Is it unconstitutional to set a limit on how many refugees we can receive? There are 60 million refugees in the world. Somewhere, it's the limit. I think that the rapporteur is expressing himself in some rather airy phrases which do not really have a reality when we talk about the ordinary reality of the earth. But it may be that the rapporteur will reply to that?
ParlaMint-DK_20160412172909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412172910	I had a little difficulty finding out what the question was in the stream of words that came down from the Danish People's Party. However, I can say so much that what I referred to was the action plan for an inclusive society. I think that's what it was called. It is not legally binding. That is an expression of opinion from 47 Member States. I was just pleased to note that agreement could be reached on this among the 47 Member States, when unfortunately it is not something that can be agreed in the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412172942	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412172945	When you make yourself the banner leader of the conventions and want to get on the high horse, I just ask: where is it that what the rapporteur was talking about is going to stand? We can discuss the conventions. I think we need to get out of the refugee convention, but that is another discussion. What we are discussing now is some allegations that there should be no legal relationship because there is a critical refugee debate. One might actually just ask: who should decide how many refugees are going to Denmark? Is it the Council of Europe, is it the EU, or is it the Danish Parliament?
ParlaMint-DK_20160412173025	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412173027	So it is still very difficult to find out what the specific question is here. However, what I referred to was the fact that legislation has been implemented here in the Folketing, which the government has recognised is associated with a procedural risk. This means that we are not sure that the conventions will be observed. That is the discussion I am referring to. I am also looking forward to a possible case, so that we can clarify whether we were on one side or the other. That is also why I want us to agree to this Protocol 16 so that we can have opinions on it so that we know what to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412173110	Thank you to Mrs Zenia Stampe. There are no more brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's line. It's sir. Holger K. Nielsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412173125	The Council of Europe is an important organisation in Europe, not least at a time when there is a tendency for Europe to be torn apart. There are disintegrating tendencies in different places, conflicts that come up. After the fall of the wall in 1989, we had a great ambition for Europe to work more together. It also happened, and it is happening better today than it did during the Cold War. But we see some trends that are going in the wrong direction. Relations with Russia are very bad. In Ukraine, there is a situation which is causing great difficulties, including for neighbouring regions. In a number of European countries we see nationalist movements emerging. Foreign-enemy movements are emerging, and we see that countries are becoming very much enough of themselves. This causes difficulties in several places in several different cooperation forums, not least in the European Union at the moment. That is not what we are discussing today. But in any case, I think it is so important, when we have the confusion of various difficulties and conflicts that arise, that we have an organisation where, after all, we can still talk together. Some people have been afraid that with Russia's policy and Putin's aggressive nationalist line towards the surroundings we could be entering a new cold war. In the Baltic countries, there is a great deal of fear of Russian military aggression, as we have seen in Ukraine, in Crimea. With the atmosphere that has come, we know that if there is a bad development, it can become even worse if we are not able to talk properly. There can be a self-enhancing process. That is why it is important to have a body such as the Council of Europe, where, after all, one can still discuss with one another, to address those issues that need to be addressed and that one has a body in which the whole of Europe is involved, unlike the others, where this is not the case. It is also important to be aware that the Council of Europe must define itself. How does this affect NATO, vis-à-vis the European Union, vis-à-vis the other bodies that are in Europe? That is where it is important to look at the priorities defined by the Secretary-General. I believe that these are seven areas of action where he believes that the Council of Europe can provide added value as an organisation. You have to focus on it, too. It has a lot to do with democracy development, it has a lot to do with human rights, it has a lot to do with stabilisation tasks at the political level. It has something to do with making better contact, seeing the freedom of the press and the democratic values on which the Council of Europe is very much based. And in these areas one can go in and play a role with a foreign policy that is not defined on military grounds, as is the case in many other places. I think that's important. I think it is important that we have the opportunity in Europe to do so and that it is an option for our continent. That is why the SF attaches great importance to the fact that the Council of Europe is there, that Denmark has an active role there, that we take it seriously, that we like to say to ourselves and to each other, that in a continent where there are so many historical experiences of bloodshed and where it can actually happen again, contrary to what many think; it is actually important that you have some places where you can contain the conflicts that may come up. I myself believe that cooperation in the European Union is the most important thing in this context, but the Council of Europe is also very, very important in order to prevent conflicts from escalating unnecessarily, so that we do not end up in the situation which has historically ended in several times on our continent.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412173612	Thank you, sir. Holger K. Nielsen. There are no brief comments. And no more rapporteurs have asked to speak, so we go to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412173623	I should like to start by saying that I think that today's debate has been very good. It has been constructive, and it has been objective, and I would like to thank you for that. The period since the last debate in Parliament back in April 2015 has been marked by the terrorist attacks in Paris and the refugee and migration crisis, which really speeded up over the summer of 2015. Not least the first, namely the terrorist attacks, has put our values to a serious test. How have we been able to deal with the schism between ruling firmly and still doing so in accordance with our values and principles in Europe? The Council of Europe has contributed to the adoption of an action plan against terrorism, and Denmark has played an active part in the preparation of this action plan. Also on the issue of the refugee and migration crisis, we have seen the principles of the Council of Europe on the promotion of human rights, democracy and the rule of law put under pressure. At the same time, however, it has also stressed the universal appeal of the principles. The lack of compliance with these principles has helped to boost the flight from despotic regimes, and this once again underlines the need for common solutions. In Ukraine, the lack of the rule of law was the seeds of the Majdan Revolution, and here the Council of Europe's extensive support for Ukraine's reform work for democracy and the rule of law has been a very large part of the work carried out during 2015. In relation to Russia's annexation of the Crimean Peninsula and the conflict with Ukraine, the Council of Europe has, in a difficult situation with the conflict of two Member States, insisted on the rejection of Russia's annexation of Crimea as the basis for a change in Crimea's status. And the Council of Europe has consistently insisted that Russia's approach to Ukraine is vertical in violation of international law and the guiding principles of the Council of Europe. During the crisis, the Council of Europe has worked to resolve the conflict through dialogue and by peaceful means. Denmark actively supports conflict-solving efforts as one of the absolute largest voluntary contributors in the Council of Europe. We will continue to play a constructive role in the Council of Europe in order to ensure its expertise and that it is actively used to add value to European cooperation. It will be among other things. one of the challenges and one of the issues when, from November 2017, we are to take over the Chair of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe. We are already beginning to reflect on what we can do from the Danish side, but I must also ask you to have realistic expectations of what can be achieved in a six-month period when there will be a large number of ongoing cases that also need to be dealt with. Nevertheless, I think it is important to try to debate some of the Danish questions, for example.: What can we do through the Council of Europe to stop the radicalisation that has taken place? How, perhaps, can we in the Council of Europe have a discussion on the issue of the challenge that many countries are fighting with, on the one hand, to have firmly anchored freedom of expression and, on the other hand, to have a problem with a number of hate preachers using freedom of expression to argue for the undermining of the very same freedom? These are some of the issues that it would be good to get the Council of Europe to discuss together in order to find common European solutions to some of the issues. There are a number of specific speeches to which I would like to make a few comments, first of all the speeches made by Mr Giscard d'Estaing. Mogens Jensen and Mrs Zenia Stampe, who both raised the issue of relations with Russia and the importance of maintaining dialogue. In fact, I believe that the government has put a very clear line on the issue of Russia, namely that we are clear in our rejection of Russia's violations of Ukraine's self-determination, that we are clear in our rejection of Russia's excesses in self-determination for the Baltic countries, and that we are clear in the rejection of their aggressive behaviour both towards the Baltic and the Baltic region, but also of their far more militaristic behaviour in the Arctic, which we are all trying to maintain as a low-voltage area. But on the other hand, alongside the rejection of their aggression, we are also trying to hold an open dialogue, because I believe that by sticking to the dialogue there is the possibility of being able to influence in the longer term. That's right, sir. Mogens Jensen and others mentioned that the Neighbourhood Programme will be narrow from having been four countries, namely Georgia, Ukraine, Armenia and Moldova, to being two countries with which we will continue as the countries with which we work closely. And that is because I believe that the most important effort we can make on the Danish side is to maintain the very active role that we have in relation to Ukraine, not only through the Council of Europe, but also through the European Union, where Denmark has been among the countries most active and also agenda-setting has taken up the Ukrainian issue over and over again. And that is why we are focusing on the first two countries in the future. Sir. Christian Langballe warned against dictations from the Council of Europe. I therefore agree that we should warn against dictatorships from anyone and neither the Council of Europe nor anyone else should dictate how we are discussing in Denmark. But I hope that Mr. Christian Langballe and I can agree that in relation to the places where we have attached ourselves, for example. The European Court of Human Rights is not a dictatorship. However, when there is a decision by a court we have submitted to, we will, of course, follow the decision. If we disagree with the premise behind a decision, then we must talk about changing the legal framework for it. But if there is a decision, we will of course submit to it. And it is not a question of dictatorships. I believe that through the Council of Europe we can defend Danish interests, including Danish interests, in keeping the values on which our society is built and ensuring that they are implemented and implemented in other European countries as well. Then there was from Enhedslisten's mr. Nikolaj Villumsen a comment that there is a worrying development in Europe. I agree with that. I think there is a worrying development in a number of Member States of the Council of Europe. It is, of course, a discussion we have had in the past, both on the movements in Turkey and also on the situation currently in Poland, where the Venice Commission of the Council of Europe has been and produced a report which I hope we will also be able to look at at at some point. I just don't agree with you when Mr. Simpson... Nikolaj Villumsen says that the EU cannot take up the same discussion. The European Commission has had a very active visit to Poland by Frans Timmermans, one of the heavy Commissioners, and now we are not just talking about his stature, to the European Union to have what one can call a firm dialogue with the new Polish Government about their obligation to live up to the agreements and principles that they have agreed to by joining the European Union. Incidentally, when we talk about the European Union and its attachment to the European Court of Human Rights, I would like to say that it is wrong to draw a picture of the fact that the European Union, like it, has been sitting on its hands and has done nothing. Indeed, there has been a desire on the part of the European Union to become part of the European Convention on Human Rights. It was written into the Treaty of Lisbon, as several others have mentioned, and indeed it was also applied for accession until the European Court of Justice came to the conclusion in December 2014 that it was not possible for the European Union to submit to another court, since the European Court of Justice was supreme; and if there was a conflict between the European Court of Justice and the European Court of Human Rights, who would have the decisive decision? And the legal dispute, which does not come from the Treaty of Lisbon, but from December 2014, I hope that we will be able to resolve it. Because I share the wish that the European Union can find a way to join the European Court of Human Rights independently along the way. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist says that it would be a wish model if everything could be done through the Council of Europe. Yes, but that would then require all countries to respect the values and principles of the Council of Europe and to comply with the decisions taken. And when not everyone does so, you also have to have other mechanisms alongside the Council of Europe unfortunately. Both, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist and Mrs Zenia Stampe raised the question of whether there could not be a little more self-criticism in the statement here. And I love the Radical Left's ability to always want something more self-criticism and find something that we can scold in the name of self-goodness and say that we could be even better at. However, if I may refer to what is behind me on herbal crops, it is a statement on the work of the Council of Europe in 2015, and so the Council of Europe has not had occasion to have that critical angle on Denmark, which makes it possible to find a significant way into a statement on the work of the Council of Europe. So even if both Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist and Mrs Zenia Stampe's heart is allowed to find hair in the soup and point to places where Denmark could become even better and I live by the attitude that every single morning you should stand up with the desire to be better today than you were yesterday, so I actually understand the desire to find something that can be done even better. So let me just say that the Council of Europe has not had occasion to do so. Therefore, when the statement is to reflect the actions and work of the Council of Europe in 2015, we simply could not find anything to squeeze in along the way. I'm gonna share sir. Holger K. Nielsen's observations along the way on the seven priorities. I think that Denmark should play an active part in those areas where we can make a difference and push an agenda, because I think it is very much in line with what we have worked for through successive governments, namely a strong, independent and cooperative European Council. In those words, I would like to thank you once again for a good debate here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412174748	This gave rise to a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Mogens Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412174754	Thank you and thank the Secretary of State. The Minister himself said, and several speakers have said, that developments are unfortunately going the wrong way in a large number of member countries of the Council of Europe, both in terms of the development of democracy and also in terms of the human rights situation. Does the Foreign Minister not think that it is regrettable that, due to the government's cuts, Denmark has to cut back on the neighbourhood programme and the good initiatives that we have taken in a number of countries and of which I have at least seen good evaluations? And is it not to go the opposite way to what is needed in the Council of Europe precisely in these years, including that Denmark takes the lead, as has been done so far?
ParlaMint-DK_20160412174843	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412174848	As Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen mentioned a number of challenges that were greater than we expected when we took over the government. A number of the things promised in the election campaign were the continuation of the tax exemption for electric cars, the abolition of the advertising tax and more money for the police were not covered financially in the then government's proposal. These are some of the things we have found room for, just as we have found room to provide health care in Denmark with the necessary 2.4 billion. kr. extra for a re-upgrade. Against this background, there have been areas where we have had to find savings, and indeed that has also been found in the area of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It hasn't been easy. I almost said that fortunately it has not been easy, because if it had been easy, the money would have been used incorrectly in advance. Clearly, when we have to cut back, there are also some things in the neighbourhood programme that we have had to examine how we can do differently. I believe that precisely by focusing on and giving priority to the two main neighbourhood countries, in other words where we have the greatest interest in ensuring that there is continued democratic development, we are spending the money properly. But, of course, I could always, and I think that any minister could always have wanted to be allowed to spend even more money in the specific cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412175000	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412175002	I did not get a full answer as to whether the Foreign Minister finds it regrettable that, in future, only much less effort can be made to promote democracy and human rights in some of the neighbouring countries where it is needed. May I not ask the Minister: is it not true that with the huge savings in foreign aid that are being made, the cover contribution to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will also be reduced, and that, regardless of what the economic situation had looked like, savings would have to be made in the remainder of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs because of savings in foreign aid, and that this is what these savings represent? I would like to hear from the Minister whether it is regrettable that less can be done for human rights and democratic development in Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412175040	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412175052	I do not think it is regrettable that we have re-prioritised ourselves so that we can invest in the Danish health service. I think it is excellent, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has also contributed to that re-prioritisation. Of course, as a minister for an area, I would always like more money. I have to say I haven't. Then I think it is important to stress that, in the work we are doing, we are actually making quite a lot of effort to ensure precisely that we make the administration that is in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs more efficient. It is clear that when less money is spent on distribution, there will also be fewer projects and hence fewer evaluations and hence fewer heads in the administration. So I think it is quite natural that when there is a smaller pool of development aid, there must also be a smaller administration in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412175131	Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412175134	I would have liked to agree with the Foreign Minister, but on the issue of the EU and the EU Treaty, I think the Minister has a problem that he talks about. Because when the European Court of Justice went in and blocked, they didn't do it out of thin air. They did so because of the wording of the Treaty of Lisbon. And what is the wording of the Treaty of Lisbon? It is the accession of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. And then it says: accession to this Convention does not change the powers of the Union as laid down in the Treaties. The Danish Government, the current one and the previous one, and all the EU parties, have helped to approve this. When we discussed this in 2009, we said that this was a problem, because, of course, we cannot join the European Court of Human Rights without conferring jurisdiction on that court, and that is why we cannot maintain that it should not go beyond the competence of the European Union, just as we have, of course, given competence on behalf of Denmark to the European Court of Human Rights, which we no longer have. Therefore, the Minister will have to recognise that it was a mistake to write that in the Treaty of Lisbon, unless it was a deliberate attempt to keep the European Court of Human Rights outside.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412175256	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412175257	I do not really think there is any reason for this kind of suspicion. I just stood up here and said that I would like to see a solution found. If I just wanted this to be an act, I shouldn't have taken this up on my own. I have just said that I would like a solution to be found and that I regret that that decision was made. I am sorry that we have not formulated it in such a way that there is room in the Treaty of Lisbon, with the interpretation of the European Court of Justice, for both. Some of us thought there would be room for that. Law is not a science as mathematics, where 2 plus 2 always gives 4 to get the right result, law is interpreted, and here was an interpretation in which I have to note that the framework that was given did not allow for what I would like to do, and as Mr. Søren Søndergaard would like the EU to be able to join the European Convention on Human Rights. Then we will have to look at what can then be done to create that framework.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412175353	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412175355	I am incredibly pleased with what the Minister is saying, but I just want to say that this is the first time I have ever heard it. If the Minister really stands by that, then the hat and respect and everything. After all, we have just called for a recognition that it was a mistake to write this way in the Treaty of Lisbon. And now the Minister says that yes, the way it was written in the Treaty of Lisbon is probably part of the cause of the problem. I would just like to express my respect for that, because it is a view that has not been heard before. That is a point of view I agree with, but above all I have respect for the fact that the Minister speaks from the Chair of Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412175430	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412175432	It's just before you just have to stand still and enjoy this recognition without trying to say anything that might destroy it. However, I would just like to reiterate that the text of the Treaty of Lisbon could have been written in confidence that there would then have been room for both assessments. It has only to be noted that, as the judgment came out in December 2014, there was no room for the European Union to join the European Convention on Human Rights. So we have to find a solution to it so that we can do it in a different way.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412175505	Then it's mr. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412175508	One can probably discuss for a long time what kind of intentions those who wrote it had, but what I think is relevant for the future and to which I would like to hear the Foreign Minister's response in this debate is what initiatives will be taken by the Foreign Minister in order to ensure that the European Union can accede to the European Convention on Human Rights, to which the Treaty of Lisbon actually promised its citizens. After all, it was one of the arguments for joining the Treaty of Lisbon, one of the positive arguments put forward both in Denmark and in the rest of the EU countries, namely that with the Treaty of Lisbon the European Union was included in the European Convention on Human Rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412175551	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412175552	I have to say that in the light of the facts about Ukraine, Azerbaijan, Turkey and other matters, I have simply not fully read out the status of the European Union's efforts to accede to the Convention on Human Rights in preparation for today. Therefore, it is a little difficult for me to say what the time perspective is, where we are. I just have to state that it is a priority for Denmark that the European Union can accede to the European Convention on Human Rights, and we will continue to work for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412175628	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412175630	Of course, I have full respect for this, and I understand that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has focused on the terrible developments in Turkey, Russia, Azerbaijan and Ukraine to which the Minister refers and which are well described in the statement. I would just like to call on the Foreign Minister to focus on this and also invite the delegation from Parliament to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe so that we may have a joint couple meeting on it. This is something that is also being discussed in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, in other words this accession. So it may be that there may be a good interaction between the government and the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412175705	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412175707	I stress that we have good cooperation between the government and the parliamentary delegation to the Council of Europe. I believe that where the problem lies more in getting the knot loosened, there is enough in the European Union. However, this should not prevent us from doing what we can to have a close and open pair race to exert ourselves in order to create an opportunity for the European Union to accede to the European Convention on Human Rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412175736	Then it's Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412175740	This is about the question I raised in my speech, namely about this Protocol 16, which I can see is signed by 16 Member States and where we are considering accession. Can it be explained?
ParlaMint-DK_20160412175758	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412175800	It is a consideration in Denmark that lies in the Ministry of Justice and therefore not in the Council of Foreign Affairs on whether or not Denmark should accede to the Convention. If there is to be accession, there will be clarification from the Ministry of Justice, a position which the government will deal with and, if necessary, the government will then seek the support of the Folketing to be able to make such accession. But since it is outside my remit, I do not have the status of how far we have come in those considerations.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412175831	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412175834	Thank you for that answer. I will then try to raise it with the Minister for Justice, but perhaps the Minister for Foreign Affairs will know a little more about this than I do, so that I can still know whether it will enter into force only with the 16 Member States, or what? But if the Secretary of State cannot answer me, I will take it back elsewhere. It's not controversy, it's just curiosity.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412175903	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412175905	None of the Additional Protocols 15 and 16 have yet entered into force, so that requires greater support before they can enter into force. There was a Brighton Conference in 2012, of which these additional protocols came out. Protocol No 15 is the more about the subsidiarity principle and the principle of the discretion of the Member States, and Protocol 16 is that one can request, as was mentioned about this opinion. We signed protocol 15 pretty fast. We did that in June 2013. The second protocol has had a longer run-in phase and, as I started by mentioning, I have to refer to the Ministry of Justice for such a detailed examination.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412175951	No one else has asked for the floor, so the negotiations have ended.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412175959	The debate is open. Sir. Orla Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412180022	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the statement on Denmark's association with the OSCE and for the OSCE's role in promoting peace, cooperation and security in Europe. The Social Democrats support the work of the OSCE and we support efforts to promote peace and security through democracy, international observations and dialogue between Parlametarists from OSCE member countries. The main focal point remains the confrontation between Ukraine and Russia. As always, when large countries try to impose advantages at the expense of smaller ones, what is going on is not pretty. In such a situation, it is essential that the international community and neighbouring states respond to injustice and constantly point this out and demand that solutions be found to meet the needs of the people for security and security through the creation of peace arrangements. The OSCE operates at several levels through diplomacy, monitoring and observation and dialogue between political representatives of the Member States. Denmark shall provide observers and undertake the monitoring of the work of the OSCE. We owe thanks to those involved for their not always easy task. We come to the Parliamentary Assembly and help put pressure on the aggressors to find decent and fair solutions that meet the needs of the people for peace and security. It must be admitted that it may seem violent that high-ranking representatives of the countries involved make speeches in a tone of voice we rarely experience in Denmark and migrate under great press attention to justify alleged injustices. One could ask oneself about the usefulness of being present when the tone is so shattered. Nevertheless, the answer is yes, because it always affects behavior that the outside world is pushing for proper tone and proper results and agreements to ensure peace and security. Hidden conflicts have led to the stepping up of justice and justice, which is why they must be dealt with and dealt with in the forums available, and the OSCE is one of them. Denmark shall host the Secretariat of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. A shift in the post of Secretary-General from an American representative who has been involved all the way in the organization's history to a new leader requires both support and willingness to try new paths without compromising existing relations. The change of presidency of the OSCE organisation as a whole will, of course, be fingerprinting. It is now Germany's Foreign Minister, Walter Steinmeier, who is taking over the presidency, and he can, with the weight of one of Europe's major countries, ensure that the OSCE pushes for solutions, and he has long experience on the foreign policy stage. Perhaps it is also an advantage that he is a representative of one of the countries which came to look quite different after the thaw in Europe and which has had to work internally to unite former opposing parties in order to create a stable society on a democratic basis. We know that other geopolitical conflicts are smouldering in the OSCE and that the OSCE is continuing to work with its supporting and mediating efforts in the frozen conflicts in Nagorno-Karabach, the Transdjnestr region, South Ossetia and Abkhazia. And yes, the world and Europe are faced with a huge refugee problem, which is a task which could also influence the work of the OSCE to ensure peace and security for people. Social democracy supports all efforts to create a more peaceful world that can provide a basis for the development and well-being of citizens. The OSCE is one of the tools for influencing this process and seeking solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412180505	Thank you, sir. Orla Sea. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412180518	First of all, I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for his statement on cooperation in the OSCE over the past year. There are, of course, many things to say about the OSCE, and one might say that the organisation has perhaps not quite had the same impact on cooperation in Europe and on the security situation that it now had during the Cold War. Unfortunately, however, we can say that the OSCE has become more needed in the last few years as a result of the sad background to the situation in Ukraine. The OSCE plays an important role as an observer in Ukraine. In this context, of course, it is also appropriate to express a great deal of thanks to the 15 Danish observers who worked in Ukraine in 2015. After all, the OSCE's primary task is to be a security and cooperation organisation in Europe, but of course also with the participation of a number of countries that we do not normally associate with Europe, namely the United States and Canada, and also the eastern former Soviet republics and Mongolia, which, at least geographically, have little to do with Europe. One of the most important tasks is for the OSCE to be an election observer and to keep an eye on the democratic rules of the game being respected by the countries. Of course, because it is different countries that are members of the OSCE, it is also sometimes countries where democratic culture and democratic traditions are not as rooted as in our part of the world. That is why, in this context, it is of course relevant that the OSCE has the role of election observer. The Ukraine conflict has filled a great deal in the work of the OSCE in the past year. It also fills a large part of the statement that the Foreign Minister is behind, and that is quite natural because that conflict has filled a great deal in Europe too. That is why Denmark has supported OSCE cooperation in Ukraine by 13 million. kr. and with Danish observers who have served as sent observers in Ukraine. Last but not least, I would like to say that we in the Danish People's Party greatly appreciate the OSCE as a good example of international cooperation, where it is free, independent countries that cooperate on an equal footing. It is a cooperation in which we do not impose or have the power to impose anything on each other. This is thus a good example of international cooperation as a counterpart of the European Union, where a large part of Denmark's international cooperation takes place and which is, of course, an organisation in which one has the power to impose different decisions on one another. In the Danish People's Party we therefore hold firmly in the international forums where we still act as a free country and where we cannot be imposed anything. Among other things: That is why we also appreciate the OSCE cooperation. Finally, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, I would like to express my thanks for the cooperation of the Danish delegation to the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly and to thank the Foreign Minister once again for his statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412180824	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Bendixen. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. It's sir. Peter Juel Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412180837	Thank you for that, President. And thank the Minister for a good and thorough statement to the Folketing. Unfortunately, as in the last few years, Ukraine has filled. The Ukraine crisis continued to dominate the OSCE agenda in 2015. The OSCE continued to play an important role in crisis management in Ukraine, both on the ground, among others. through the special monitoring mission, and in diplomatic efforts to provide a political solution to the crisis. With the Ukraine crisis, the OSCE's role as a regional security and cooperation organisation had become highly topical. Serbia took over the OSCE Presidency in a still difficult context. With the conclusion of the Minsk Implementation Agreement in February 2015, the role of the OSCE in Ukraine became even greater. With the terrorist attacks in Paris, Copenhagen and Ankara and the growing migratory flows against Europe, the fight against terrorism and migration were also high on the OSCE agenda. The OSCE Field Missions in Eastern Europe, the Caucasus and Central Asia and in the Balkans continued their important work on capacity building and advice. In addition, the OSCE continued its supporting and mediating efforts in frozen conflicts. The independent institutions, the OSCE Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights, also known as ODIHR, the High Commissioner for National Minorities and the Media Freedom Representative, experienced increased pressure from individual OSCE Member States, in particular Russia and Azerbaijan. During 2015, the ODIHR, in cooperation with the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, carried out a large number of election observations. Germany is taking over the OSCE Presidency at a time when the OSCE region continues to be marked by the Ukraine crisis, widespread distrust and growing pressure on human rights. The Ukraine crisis is to be expected to continue to be the biggest single challenge that the German OSCE Presidency has to face. During the anniversary of the Helsinki Treaty, we still have great challenges in the OSCE area. Within the human dimension, the work was marked by growing disagreements mainly between Russia and the Western countries on human rights and democracy. It has made a deep mark in the work of the OSCE's human dimension in 2015. Under the political and military dimension, I would like to highlight the arms control agreements, which, in short, can be said to be the focal point. These very agreements are the cornerstones of European security. This is a set of military confidence and security-building measures which all OSCE countries have committed themselves to. The aim is to increase mutual trust, reduce tensions and reduce the risk of conflict. In the Minister's statement there is a whole chapter on the Danish OSCE commitment, and indeed Denmark makes a difference, even a big one. So when we have put the OSCE to a debate today, I would like on behalf of the Left to thank all those who have accomplished tasks under the auspices of the OSCE. Many of them are Danish, and we can be proud of that. When I meet my colleagues from the other OSCE countries, the Danish efforts will also be noticed. But if a small country like Denmark should not go all in to an organisation like the OSCE, yes, I do not actually know who should. Finally, as the head of delegation for the Danish delegation, I would like to thank all the Danish politicians who, in cooperation with the ODIHR, participated in election observation in inter alia. Belarus, Turkey, Kyrgyzstan, Moldovia, Albania, Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan and the local elections in Ukraine. I know that it is time-consuming and that it is a greater challenge to make the calendar go up, but it is of great importance not only for the individual country but for the whole OSCE. In fact, the ODIHR carried out a needs assessment mission in Denmark prior to the parliamentary elections on 18 June, but considered that there was no need to carry out a proper election observation. 2015 was also the year when the long-standing Secretary-General of the OSCE PA, Spencer Oliver, resigned. Spencer Oliver has been Secretary-General of the OSCE PA since 1992, when the OSCE PA Secretariat was also established with its seat in Copenhagen. Spencer Oliver was replaced by the Italian Roberto Montella, and I would like to thank Spencer Oliver from this platform for an amazing effort within the OSCE PA. Spencer Oliver has built up an organisation to which all other international organisations are biased, both when it comes to carrying out the task and in terms of making the best use of resources. Minister, thank you for a good and thorough statement. I also think that the Minister should agree that Denmark is in fact the only country where the OSCE's tasks will be discussed in the country's parliament. Thank you for your statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412181348	Thank you, sir. Peter Juel Jensen. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412181402	I would also like to join in thanking the Foreign Minister for this statement to Parliament on the work of the OSCE in 2015, because that is what the statement is about. It can be said that the OSCE, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, is a product of détente in Europe after the Cold War and therefore has 25 years behind it. What I think is very special about the OSCE is that it is based on an understanding of security in a broad sense. Security is not only the absence of war, security is also the absence of the causes that can lead to war. And if you want to create security, you must also look at the causes that lead to war. That is why it is so important for the OSCE to focus on the democratic aspects, such as: the holding of free and fair elections, the ODIHR, the freedom of the media and the freedom of expression, where you have a special representative, respect for the rights of minorities, where you also have a special representative, etc. That is what makes it possible for us to invent something similar if we did not have the OSCE. The OSCE has an important role to play in relation to these conflicts that we have experienced in the OSCE area in recent years, but unfortunately we also see that those conflicts are becoming increasingly violent. The conflict in Ukraine, which we talked a lot about in the last paragraph and which we do not have to say much about here, obviously also dominates the work of the OSCE. The conflict between Azerbaijan and Armenia over Nagorno-Karabakh senses that one is with a controlled hand from the outside and serves a greater geopolitical purpose. And then there is the extremely deteriorating situation in Turkey, with violations of key OSCE values such as freedom of the media and minority rights. If we look at the statement before us, we see that there are a great many good elements, but I also think a number of questions arise. Let me take some of them. Ukraine is very central in the statement and with good reason. I don't want to question it at all. But there is not a word about the Balkans. The question can then be asked: is it really going well in the Balkans? I think we should be very careful about a logic called out of sight, out of mind. No, there is not an open war in the Balkans at the moment, but some of the problems that we see in the Balkans can very easily develop into open conflicts, and that is why I think we should be careful to focus only on the open conflicts, because we also need to focus on precisely what is the basis of the OSCE, which is to look at what is the basis for avoiding conflicts. Another thing is that Turkey is not mentioned in a single word. I think that is relatively remarkable. Again, it is not at all to ignore developments in Ukraine, but it is the case that the escalation of the current conflict in Turkey exactly started in March, April 2015, i.e. during the period covered by this report. When the Turkish President, Erdogan, gave up the negotiating line quite clearly because he could not get a majority because the Kurdish party set up to become almighty president, he embarked on a course of confrontation, on the one hand, with the independent press, which was to be silenced, on the other hand, by the national minorities, all the national minorities, but, above all, the Kurds. In this context, I would like to say that I am also somewhat surprised by the list which appears several times in the Foreign Minister's statement. The terrorist activities in Paris, Copenhagen, Ankara; Paris, Copenhagen, Ankara; Paris, Copenhagen, Ankara. Yes, there was terrorist action in Paris, there was a terrorist action in Copenhagen, which fortunately did not cost as many people their lives as the one in Paris or the one later in Ankara. However, I wonder why the terrorist action in Suruç on 20 July 2015 is not mentioned. It was precisely the terrorist action in Suruç in July 2015 that was absolutely crucial for the peace process in Turkey to get completely out of hand. I myself have been there and have experienced all the checkpoints myself, and it is an area that is fully occupied by the checkpoints of Turkish policemen, and somebody managed to go in with a bomb and blow up 34 socialists. Very strange. It then led a sub-organisation to the PKK to respond by assassinating two police officers, whom they said had the exact responsibility for that bomb getting through. And all of this has helped to escalate further the crisis Erdogan has planned to try to get his almighty presidential mandate. But the terrorist action in Suruç was absolutely central, and that is why I think it deserves to be mentioned in this list. It is also mentioned that relations within the OSCE have deteriorated. It is clear, especially when you look at the issue of Russia's behaviour in Ukraine, that there has been a need to take tough confrontations. This has led to some deterioration. However, it is also mentioned that it has deteriorated further since Finland, in the context of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly's summer meeting in July 2015, refused entry to Russian OSCE parliamentarians on the EU sanction list. I would like to raise the question here, in the discussion we have, which is an open discussion, whether it is a wise decision to refuse Members of Parliament entry to a meeting of the OSCE because they are on an EU terrorist list. It was not an OSCE decision to keep them away, it was not a decision of the Parliamentary Assembly to keep them away, it was a decision of a country that hosted that event on behalf of an organisation which is quite irrelevant to the OSCE. That would be the same if the UN General Assembly in New York could no longer have representatives of various people on various lists in the United States. We all know that Nelson Mandela was on the terrorist list of the United States until long after he became president, Fidel Castro is there, and so on, there may be good reasons for that. But that is not an argument for the fact that negotiations cannot be conducted in a forum such as the United Nations General Assembly. And the question is, is that wise? I raise it as an open question whether it is wise to let the European Union dictate who can participate in the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. I am completely open to the Council of Europe, and so am I, that the Parliamentary Assembly decides to exclude anyone. I have myself, by the way, with Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, argued for the exclusion of Russia from the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in relation to Chechnya, and of course one can do so. We know that Turkey has been excluded for a period of time. So it's not to deny it at all. But it has to be those who have the authority to do it and to take that discussion and not anyone else from the outside. The report mentions that on 9 March 2015, a high-level report came with recommendations to the Danish government in a number of areas. That is absolutely right. However, I think it would have been a good idea to review in each area how the government has responded to these recommendations. I think that what is crucial about an organisation such as the OSCE is giving and taking. You give criticism, but you also accept when you get criticism. It does not have to be because the criticism is justified, but one takes it seriously, one takes it seriously. I am one of those who may regret that the OSCE chose not to make an election mission in Denmark. It is not because I stand here and claim that there is widespread electoral cheating in Denmark, I do not. Under no circumstances do I think there is. But I stand here and say that every system benefits from being looked through. And I really think it might be interesting that people from outside came and looked at the Danish electoral system and questioned it and perhaps made some wonder whether, on the one hand, in the process up to, on the other hand, in the electoral process itself, there were some things that could be done even better. It is like the idea of cooperation, such as the OSCE and, incidentally, the Council of Europe, that criticism is being made and criticism is being made, and one listens to it, and one tries to improve if there is a basis for criticism. Finally, yesterday I took part as a fly on the wall or as an observer at the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly's Bureau meeting here in Copenhagen. It took place up in the Landstingshall. What was experienced there was that a great deal of thanks was given to Denmark for the support given by Denmark. In addition to the quota we are contributing, Denmark is making premises available to the Parliamentary Assembly and is thus de facto at the very top among contributors to the OSCE. I think we can be very satisfied with that, and at least here I would like to convey this thanks to the government and say that I hope it is a position that we can continue to have in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412182434	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Juel Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412182439	Thank you, and that is perhaps more a comment than a question, but I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on also entering into the work of the OSCE PA. I know the rapporteur well enough to know that the rapporteur was not just a fly on the wall, the rapporteur sucked to himself at Sunday and Monday's meeting. First of all, I should like to mention that only Russian politicians on the list of sanctions were denied entry to Finland, and in Finland I was up there myself, after all, it was recognised that this was a purely Finnish decision. It was not something that the OSCE or the PA had any influence on in any way. It was a purely Finnish decision, because it had been chosen to stand with other countries and impose sanctions on Russia, sanctions which, moreover, I very much agree with. Then I would say with regard to election observation in Denmark that all systems need to be looked for, but it is also a question of resources. I think that the rapporteur must recognise that there are other countries that have greater challenges than Denmark has, and I think it is quite reasonable to have such an initial election observation, where we will just find out what we should be watching. You talk to the press, you talk to the opposition parties, and I actually had a meeting with them myself. Thank you, however, for a fine and comprehensive speech by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412182557	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412182558	It is quite true that there was no basis for some full mission, but I think that the idea of inviting people is a good one, because there is also the fact that people who come may also be able to learn something that they can bring home with them. Perhaps we could also learn something, but they can also learn something, and it can be done relatively cheaply. It does not need to be a full OSCE mission, but it may be within the framework of the OSCE that others are invited to participate. In relation to the second question, I am raising it as a discussion because I think it is an important issue, also because we are setting a precedent? So, some Russian cooperation with some countries that the Russians have control over, and those countries decide that they are now making a list of people they do not want to see, and then there has to be some OSCE conference. I think we're gonna be in Service next summer. Suddenly there are a number of people who cannot enter Belarus because they are on some list where the Belarusians say that we do not want them in here. Is this a sensible development to start? That is, in fact, the fundamental discussion I would like to have there. That is not in relation to the criticism of those people. I would have liked to have said that they could be picked up at the airport and taken to the meetings and then drive them back to the airport, but the very fact that the OSCE is being respected as an organisation, I think, is important.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412182713	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412182714	As I said, the rapporteur and I agree with you on this point. What is also important is that if we want to look into the cards in those countries that have democracy under control, which have neither media freedom nor freedom of assembly nor anything else, we will also be forced to offer ourselves, and it was also in that context that we should see the invitation to the ODIHR to come and monitor the Danish elections too, in order to have the opportunity to look at other countries in the maps. The politicians who were invited up in Helsinki were not Russian politicians. It was Russian politicians who sit in the Russian OSCE delegation, but there were also some replacements on the team, so that the countries or the politicians that the Russians want into Finland were some who were on the sanction list. So I think it goes both ways. It was not only the countries that had sanctions against the Russians that had something to do here. It was also because the Russians had sent some politicians who might have been deliberately on a list.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412182819	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412182820	That is absolutely correct, and that is, of course, why it is a discussion. You just always have to think about what a precedent you create when you do something. Maybe that's what I think this is giving rise to. Since it is now mentioned in the statement, I am also referring to it here. As far as election missions are concerned, I fully agree that this is precisely about reciprocity. I still remember at the time when Russia wanted to be monitored and Russia was not much for it, but when the Russian representative then accepted it, in exchange for being allowed to monitor in the United States, and that is among other things. That's why we're going over there in November.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412182905	Thank you, sir. Søren Søndergaard. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412182912	I would also like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his statement. These are many points in which, in the alternative, we disagree with the policy pursued by Denmark when we get outside the country's borders, and we are discussing this in all kinds of other contexts. On the other hand, I think it is important to say that I remember the Minister for Foreign Affairs standing here at some point and saying that he would also like to take care of being Minister for Peace. It has been some time since then, and I do not think it has necessarily been implemented in the actions that have taken place since. However, when we have the OSCE statement, I would like to say that I have just heard all the criticisms that I would like to make from Mr Seligman. Søren Søndergaard, of Enhedslisten, presented with much more substance than I could ever do. That's why I don't see any reason to start ripping it up. On the other hand, I would rather make a very pro-OSCE speech and also a pro-debate on the statement we have received. I myself have the pleasure of joining the OSCE PA, that is, as part of the parliamentary section, and have been on a few trips. I have also benefited from the wisdom of some of the experienced gentlemen in this area. I actually see the parliamentary part of the OSCE as such a good buffer, where we have the United States and Russia in the same room. At first I was very sceptical about that part, and it does not get much attention here in Denmark either, and I was even sceptical about the level at which you could ask if it was too expensive to send people away. So, did it even make sense, or was it such a pamphlet where you just went on some cozy trips? There I have to admit that there is in fact a lot in the dialogue that I have experienced, which may seem like this buffer that needs to be used in order to talk about the possibility of military action other than military action. I would like to see it even more in the headlines here in Denmark that we cannot solve things with military when we have conflicts around the world. There are times when military is possible, but the whole foundation of the OSCE is precisely that there must be preventive work, because there are structures that make wars and instability happen. That debate is very, very rare. We often talk about the policy of necessity and the need for arms and military intervention, and that is because in many cases we are late or because we have not taken responsibility for ourselves. After all, the OSCE statement by the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs here also suggests that we are actually doing quite well. When you read it without having more experience than I have as relatively newly chosen, what is in it actually sounds pretty good. Then we can say that we must put even greater pressure on the media management that is taking place in a country such as Russia, where NGOs are being excluded because, for example, they are called agents. So, what are we really able to do there from Denmark? I do not have any solutions at all, but I can only say that I believe much more that we must act internationally in these fora where we actually have a voice and role and have an opportunity to show that Denmark can do something diplomatic that other countries cannot do but that we must go out and interfere with symbolic politics in foreign policy affairs, where we contribute with a plane or some individual forces here and here to show that we are there. I think we have much, much greater power and much more to have said in these international forums like the OSCE it could also be the United Nations, it could be NATO. But the NATO role is often with a military supplement, so perhaps we should try to get the debate further into the fact that there are other solutions. I am therefore delighted that it seems that there is such a high priority for OSCE cooperation. I would then like it to be followed to the general level, even when we are talking about enemy images, which we have also heard about earlier today. I often think that Russia is highlighted as the great villain. I have said this before, and it was very badly heard in the debate that I was part of and where I mentioned that Russia might actually be in a situation where people wanted to do things that were good for Russia. Then we might find it difficult to reconcile ourselves to the fact that those things were sensible when it was a Mr. Putin, who stood there and said them. But if we are now again trying to see that what comes from Russia may not necessarily be only evil, and instead we are thinking that dialogue might well be the way forward, even if the road is long, as when you are negotiating with terrorists or considering whether you should do so and that you should perhaps help Russia win something internally instead of constantly winning something externally, then I think it is healthy not to establish a scapegoat. We are at a time when we do not need these scapegoats, and there is the OSCE in a forum where we can also press for them to do so. Having said that, as a tiny, large-scale finger for Russia to look a little differently at Russia than the great devil, I would also say that we must be careful not to allow them to push us in the conflict with Ukraine, where we may, because they are talking about going further into a peace process, allow them to break conventions and regulations on all sorts of other fronts. We shouldn't be good believers either. That's it for me.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412183431	Thank you, sir. René Gade. We move on in the rapporteur's line, and the next one is Mrs Zenia Stampe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412183444	I have just returned from maternity leave, and I can see that it is both an advantage and a disadvantage to come after the alternative, because precisely in these areas I think there is at least a certain overlap. Because I would say that I am also very enthusiastic about the OSCE. Now the statement we have received is very detailed, particularly in relation to the Ukraine crisis and so on, and I do not want to go into that very much. However, I would just like to say that, at the height of the crisis, we found that one of the organisations that we perhaps did not really believe had a right of existence anymore was suddenly, as it were, re-acquired. By this I mean the continuation of what the Alternative's rapporteur, Mr. René Gade, said before that these organizations are extremely important, and I therefore believe that for a small country like Denmark there is always the most influence to gain in strengthening the organisations that have been created. Then it may be that there are some times when they do not have quite as much to do as other times, but in connection with the Ukraine crisis, we found out that there was suddenly a crisis here where, if not the solution, the OSCE could, if not the solution, then contribute to the solution. When I think that Denmark has a special commitment to the OSCE in particular, it is also because at the time Denmark was involved in and was a driving force in creating the OSCE in its efforts to create détente between East and West. When the Russians began their journey in Ukraine, which we were extremely critical of, and Danish politicians then began to talk about that now the warships were going to the Baltic Sea, etc. etc, I thought: What is our legacy? So our legacy is not to step up or arm up. Our legacy is to seek dialogue, to seek solutions, including with those who are moving in the wrong direction. At that time, I was thinking of the OSCE, because we were precisely involved in creating the OSCE, because we took on the role of mediators and tried to ensure that the powers were to disarm instead of just talking about a hundred percent Western power and more and more escalation. It was not the path that Denmark chose, nor is it the path that Denmark should choose in the future. That is why an organisation such as the OSCE is so important and it has only become more important in the last few years, and that is why we fully support Denmark's work in it. I myself took part in the celebration of the 40th anniversary in a backyard in Copenhagen in August organised by the Helsinki Committee. There were not so many politicians present, and I remember thinking at that time: well, the OSCE is not so hot anymore. But it may well be that it will be again, because there is no doubt that it is a forum which can help us in the situation we are in right now, where there is increasing armaments between East and West or, in particular, between Russia on the one hand and Europe and the United States and the rest of the West on the other.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412183801	Thank you to Mrs Zenia Stampe. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Holger K. Nielsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412183817	I would also like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for this statement. I would also like to point out that many sensible things have been said in this debate, and I can of course repeat them, but I do not think I will do that here, because there is actually a very broad consensus here in the Danish Parliament that the OSCE is an important organisation and that Denmark has a great interest in strengthening the OSCE and that we support the government in ensuring that Denmark has a high profile in this area. Denmark, too, played a strong role during the Helsinki process in the 1970s, which is why it is in the Danish foreign tradition that we are very much involved in this work. So I do not have to say so much about all those things, even about the conflicts that the OSCE is entering into. We all know that many of us are doing so, at least how important the OSCE is in terms of electoral activities around us, that is to say to monitor that the elections are taking place in a democratic manner. And that is extremely important if we are to have democratic development somewhere, that there is confidence that the elections are going on properly. And, in fact, the OSCE has a very, very important role to play in relation to the fact that many Danish politicians are out and take responsibility for the fact that it is actually going to be done in a proper way around. Let me conclude by saying a few words about some of what Mrs Zenia Stampe also mentioned, namely that foreign policy is often the big conflicts, the big headlines CNN is there, and that is breaking news etc. But most of it is, you might say, solid rye bread work, which takes place under all the headlines. And it is not always the case that there is so much publicity about the activities, and the OSCE has, of course, been a very good example of this, i.e. that okay, it may not have been so relevant to the headlines that are in the media, but it is nevertheless an important piece of work. And then suddenly it is needed, what has been very much in some of the conflicts in Ukraine, for example, but also in Georgia and other places where you can go in and then, like using the competences you have, in relation to what you are good at détente and security. So it is also important that, when discussing foreign policy, we pay attention to those activities which are not so media-suited but which are, in fact, a prerequisite for us to have a reasonably stable world to live in. So that is fine, and that is why I fully agree with what has been said and agree with the government's policy in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412184139	Thank you, sir. Holger K. Nielsen. As no more rapporteurs have asked to speak, it is the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412184153	Thank you to the rapporteurs for a subdued and very positive debate. It has been positive because a constant feature of all the contributions made by the rapporteurs has been a support for the work of the OSCE and a support for the real, very many people who are using their powers, are doing their job, and sometimes also putting their security at risk for the benefit of the OSCE's work. It is encouraging to see that there is still an interest in the work being done in the OSCE and that there is support for a contribution and support for a Danish effort in the organisation. Perhaps that is quite right, as Mr. Holger K. Nielsen said here at the end that the OSCE is such an organisation, which may not be noticed in the years when things are going well, but in the years when there are problems, it is, with its 57 members, a very important organisation, a very important forum for discussion and conflict resolution, where, as was also said by Mr K. Nielsen, it is a very important forum for discussion and resolution. Søren Søndergaard has a very broad understanding of security. It is democracy, it is human rights, it is security policy, it is counter-terrorism, it is migration and much more. It is a very broad spectrum, and I think it is important to stick to the broad spectrum, to ensure that there is an opportunity to take the many things in the bud if it is possible to achieve consensus behind it. I think that the Ukraine conflict has strengthened the dividing line in the OSCE • Perhaps not, as Mrs Zenia Stampe said, between East and West, but more directly between Russia and those countries that believe that it should be the right of every country to choose its own future. And that's where the dividing line is. This has also made it difficult to introduce more new measures, for example. in the area of human rights or arms control, because, on the one hand, the OSCE has the strength to have 57 Member States, and, on the other hand, the challenge is for decision-making to take place by consensus. And that means that one country can prevent the other 56 from going further or taking sensible steps and actions. I recognise the strength of consensus democracy both in the OSCE and in the WTO, and for that matter also in the UN. This means, of course, that everyone has to have flexibility and be ready to bend a little towards each other. The challenge comes in relation to consensus when one will not bow to the others. And here one is then a country that violates the fundamental principles on which cooperation is based. That is why it is important for the OSCE to keep the dialogue going, even when it is difficult for the OSCE to be impartial, and for it to be seen as what is in English called a honest broker, so an honest negotiator between others. That is what we have seen in Ukraine, where the OSCE plays an important role. The organisation has a leading role in Eastern Ukraine, where the Special Monitoring Mission, the SMM, has been the largest international presence in Ukraine. The mission plays among other things. a crucial role in monitoring the security and human rights situation, monitoring the ceasefire concluded and the withdrawal of weapons. In addition, the SMM contributes with other important tasks such as facilitating dialogue and mine clearance. I visited Ukraine in September last year, and then I had the opportunity to meet some of the Danish soldiers. It is an important work they do, and the determination they carry out it with, the calmness they have, regardless of the fact that they are subjected to attacks and shots, makes a great impression. The professionalism they have comforts me a lot. On the other hand, and this is perhaps not so reassuring, it has to be said that the conflict in Ukraine has flared up recently. We have seen attacks on the SMM mission, we have seen an increase in the number of breaches of the ceasefire, unfortunately on both sides. Mostly it has been from the Russian-supported rebels, but also from the Ukrainian side we have seen it. That is why it is important that we continue to support the mission. We supported it in 2015 with both personnel and contributions. Approx. Fifteen Danish observers to the SMM mission, and we made a voluntary contribution of 3 million in addition to the usual related contribution. kr., so that overall we have provided support for the SMM with a total of 9 million. kr. in 2015. The OSCE also plays an important role in diplomatic efforts. We're in the so-called trilateral contact group. It is the OSCE Presidency, together with Ukraine and Russia, that is constantly negotiating actions to promote a political solution. Unfortunately, however, the OSCE cannot simply take care of Ukraine. There are other problems around which you have to deal with. There are violations of freedoms, human rights violations in many parts of the region, and the OSCE's independent institutions play a crucial and special role in reminding Member States of their responsibilities. The Media Freedom Representative has worked very actively in 2015 to promote and protect freedom of expression and media in a number of Member States. In 2015, the representative made 27 visits to 19 countries and raised over 200 cases. It is also a Danish priority in the OSCE, and Denmark has among other things. cooperation with the Media Freedom Representative to counter propaganda in the OSCE region. I would also like to emphasise, like several others, the OSCE election observation missions. 18 missions were carried out in 2015 across the OSCE region and, as a rule, we contribute 3%. of the short-term election observers and 1 out of 20 of the long-term election observers for any mission. So Denmark also promises a large part of the work behind the OSCE in this area. The OSCE Parliamentary Assembly plays a special role in the implementation of the election observations, both through contributions to observers and through the management of the election observations. It is therefore appropriate to take this opportunity to thank the Danish OSCE parliamentarians for their hard work, both in connection with election observation and through their work in the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. If I am going to crack down on some of the rapporteur's speeches that have been made, I would first like to mention Mr Seligman's remarks. Orla Sea and I fully agree that we are influencing behaviour in countries by pressure from the outside world. Often you can have a question about what such a conversational meeting means if you have to say it a little negatively, that's what I hear from time to time really benefits. What does it affect? It affects receiving criticism, it affects having a dialogue, and it affects putting pressure on. I fully agree with Mr. Orla Hav in that we must continue the OSCE's great work and the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly's hard work in putting pressure on the behaviour of countries both to stop those who have gone in the wrong direction and also to put obstacles on those who have the tendency to go in the same direction. That is why the work is very, very important. One might well think that the OSCE has had an historically declining importance, but at least recently it has been updated what an important role the OSCE has to play. I have to say, I was surprised when Mr. Peter Juel Jensen informed me that Denmark is the only country where Parliament is discussing the role of the OSCE. I am both surprised and disappointed in that. I think that there is every reason for other countries to take this as seriously as we do in the Folketing. Then I'll go to Mr. Knox. Søren Søndergaard, who mentions Ukraine as central, but he asks why other countries are not mentioned any more. If you take the Balkans, I would say that the role that Serbia has played as a country holding the OSCE presidency shows something about how far the Balkans have moved along the way. Serbia has done a good job. It is not the case that they have revolutionised or newly created the OSCE, but they have done a solid job, and this shows how far the Balkans and the Balkans have come. They also now have the ability to successfully lead the OSCE. I must admit that the statement could well have mentioned Turkey something more. Maybe it should have filled something more. We chose to focus so much on Ukraine because it is the great stumbling block and because the OSCE SMM mission is the biggest task. But yes, there could have been more. However, I think it is important to say that part of the work of the media representative is precisely the issue of Turkey. When we mention what the media representative has done, I would say that Turkey is a core country in the work that has been done. Turkey has also been among the countries most frequently attended by the OSCE Permanent Council. On Finland's refusal to allow Russians to participate in the OSCE mission, I would like to say that it is not the case that the European Union has said to the countries that they must not let them enter. The European Union has said that they need to give careful consideration to whether there is a justification for granting a travel authorisation to those on the list of sanctions. We stood, for example. Even with the thought on the Danish side that if Germany had held a session on conflicts and minorities in the border region between Flensburg and Padborg, I would have almost said, in the South Jutland, that we would have been in that situation and, if so, we would have been prepared by the government to open up the possibility of participation, because it would not have made sense to do so without Russian participation. Now it ended up being nothing. There may be several reasons why it didn't happen. But we would be ready to do so, so it is not the European Union that decides. However, Finland made a decision on a concrete basis. Several people have asked about the recommendations from the report from the visit in 2014. It is the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice to give a concrete answer to this. We in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have a tradition of doing a very open process. For example, when I... We very quickly accepted the recommendations that were made and have very accurately stated in a report what we can accept, what we can accept in part and what we have noted. The latter is the use of language for us to reject it. We have noted that some have said so, but we are no longer doing so. We've been running a very open process. I still think I deserve the title of Minister of Peace. Sometimes you have to fight for peace too. But at other times you can actually talk and negotiate for peace. We'll make an effort. We are making an effort to bring together the Syrian opposition in the negotiations in Vienna. We're making an effort in Columbia. We are making an effort, on behalf of the European Union, to lead the pen in some of the reports written in the OSCE. So we are, in fact, leading a long way along the way a policy whose aim is ultimately the same, namely to create a more peaceful world with fewer conflicts. Sometimes, unfortunately, we disagree on what tools in the toolbox should lead to peace. But it should not separate us when I think that I think it is positive to hear the great support there is. The OSCE will also need this. 2016 will be a year when the OSCE gets enough of challenging tasks. There is still a crisis in Ukraine. There is increasing pressure on democracy and the human rights situation, and there are challenges that we must also place high emphasis on both in the Danish work and in our contribution through the OSCE. That is why we will continue to give high weight to the contribution to the work of the OSCE, including in the coming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412185537	As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is over.
ParlaMint-DK_20160412185541	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Wednesday, 13 April 2016, at 3 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
