ParlaMint-DK_20161219100009	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Karsten Hønge (SF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 43 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on improving the conditions for access to education and employment) and motion for a resolution No. B 46 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the impact assessment of legislative proposals on rural and peripheral development and islands). Peder Hvelplund (EL), Torsten Gejl (ALT) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 44 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the establishment of a national coastal council and an associated national coastal management fund). Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF) and Jacob Mark (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 45 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the possibility of correcting incorrect health data). Maria Reumert Gjerding (EL), Uffe Elbæk (ALT) and others. Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 47 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the Amager Community). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). From a member of the Danish Parliament Alex Ahrendtsen (DF), who is on leave, I have received notification that from 24 December 2016 he can again meet in Tinget. Carsten Kudsks (DF) duties as a temporary member of the Folketing shall cease to apply from that date. From members of the Folketing Laura Lindahl (LA) and Magni Arge (T) on leave, I have been informed that from 1 January 2017 they will be able to rejoin the Ting. Danny K. Malkowskis (LA) and Tórbjørn Jacobsens's (T) duties as temporary members of the Folketing shall cease to apply from that date. The Committee on the Rules of Procedure has presented a report on the report on the follow-up to the Christiania case. 3). The report can be found in www.folktingstidende.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219100216	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219100243	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219100248	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. Has everyone voted? In favour of voting 53 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 51 (S, EL, ALT, RV and EL), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219100331	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219100339	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 81 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), against 19 (EL, ALT and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219100416	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219100421	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote will end. In favour, 104 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219100512	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219100517	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote will end. In favour, 104 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219100550	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219100557	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote will end. In favour, 104 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219100630	No amendments have been tabled. I can see that there are some who wish to speak, and the first is Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen from Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219100646	Thank you. I am speaking as rapporteur because Simon Kollerup is unfortunately ill today. Thirdly, we are dealing with a proposal which basically says everything about the government here today. The proposal has its origins in the food and agriculture package adopted a year ago, and the process we witnessed then has many similarities with the process that has been around the current legislative proposal. When the food and agriculture package was negotiated last year, the process was characterised by the urgency of the negotiations. There was no time to find a broad compromise that was otherwise sought by the industry, and ultimately the negotiation process ended in costing former Minister Eva Kjer Hansen the post. In short, it was a mess that only Sustainable Agriculture and the Liberal Alliance could be satisfied with, and the debate and the package had almost cost the government its life. The proposal we are debating today has received the same step-motherly treatment by the government and again leaves the Folketing in a situation where, like the case of the environmental impact of the food and agriculture package, we do not know what is up and down. The fact is that the criteria determining how many watercourses should remain in the plans were first submitted to the Danish Parliament today at 1 p.m. So seven, three hours ago. It is not good enough that we have only a few hours, when we have also had consultations on another matter, that we only have three hours to deal with and understand criteria that are so important to the entire Danish watercourse effort. It is also not good enough that questions have been asked about the matter in committee, to which the Danish Parliament has not yet received an answer. This is simply not a fair way of dealing with the Folketing. At the same time, I would also like to send the very clear message to the party that claims to be the government's green party, the party that fortunately set foot because the government would not stand by the consequences of the agricultural package on the environment. I am, of course, talking about the Conservatives who, in the context of the negotiations on the food and agriculture package, prided themselves on the fact that they saved the watercourses and that even the same watercourses were of crucial importance to the party. Can the Conservative People's Party really live by the fact that the watercourse effort is treated as carelessly as I have described it now? If that is the case, then it is not just the ministerial car that the Conservatives park, it is also the goodness of the party and the green conscience of the party. We want to find a balance between respect for the aquatic environment and respect for drainage, but this cannot be done in this way, where we are rushed through something that we do not have a chance to deal with properly. As the supplementary report shows, the Social Democratic Party will announce its position at the third reading today, and that is what I am going to do now, and that is that the Social Democratic Party must vote against the bill, and we will also pursue the environmental consequences of this matter in the committee's work which will undoubtedly follow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219100946	Thank you, sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen. Then it's Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219100959	Thank you. After all, L 34 is about Denmark's watercourses, about a fantastic part of Danish nature, about the basis for our valuable fish stocks, our insects and a part of our rich diversity of birds. With this law in hand, the government, along with the Danish People's Party, will take streams out of the water plans. Basically, we do not know how many of Denmark's watercourses are no longer to be protected by nature, or how many watercourses the purpose is no longer to be nature for the benefit of anglers and ordinary Danes who love nature. Instead, farmers are released with their backhoeers to transform watercourses into a drainage channel for manure and spray poisons. With this bill, we run the risk that a very large part of our watercourses will be destroyed and, as the previous rapporteur has also mentioned, the reason why we do not know the full consequences of this bill is that we will not be here until this morning at 1 p.m. 7 was presented with the criteria to be met by the watercourses in order to get out of the waterplanes. It was rather technical and so far we have a large number of questions that we have asked after the technical review and which have not yet been answered for good reasons, namely because time has been so short. But answers to these questions are absolutely crucial for the Folketing to be able to assess the real consequences of this law. I think it is sad, of course not only because the majority will adopt a bill which will mean a deterioration in nature protection and which could destroy a large number of our valuable streams, but also for our democracy, because the majority of the Committee on the Environment and Food is rolling over a very large minority of the Enhedslisten, Social Democracy and Radicals, the SF and the Alternative, and all we have asked for is that our question on the bill should be answered. It is that we must be able to take a thorough and proper look at what the law may have to do with consequences before we deal with it in a third way. One thing is our political disagreements in here, which are deeply real and the reason why we are here, but I just wish that we could stand together to ensure that the Parliament has proper working conditions, to ensure that we all have a real opportunity for our questions about a legislative proposal to be answered and reasonable opportunities to understand the consequences of a legislative proposal before we stand here at third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219101245	Thank you. The next one is sir. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219101255	Thank you. I will try not to repeat too much of what has been said. In the alternative, we are also very concerned about this matter, which will remove a number of our watercourses from protection. We have been to a technical review this morning, where we may have become a little wiser. But the problem is that by its very nature it is so technical that we have no way of getting really smart. This means that we don't have the opportunity to ask independent experts out there whether this is holding water, whether it's something on the plus side, or something on the minus side. Some of the criteria seem to have been slightly improved, some have come to; we have not seen them before. For example: I would like to point out that it appears that there is a demand for ochre. This means that if a stream is heavily ochre-loaded, it can be taken out of protection. I think that is to turn the legislation upside down, because we actually have an ochre law which is about avoiding ochre emissions. Okker is something that comes when you drain, so you should turn it on your head in my eyes and say that if a stream is ochre-loaded, we have to see if we have to remove some drains so that we can stop the ochre-load. But I cannot have that checked before we vote now. That is why I think it has actually become a very undemocratic process. We have tried in committee to ask whether it is not possible to extend this treatment and try to ask why it is so busy. There may well be an entirely objective reason. It may be that farmers need to do this and that or that by 1 March at the latest. But there's no reason. We will have no other reason but that they want to get started with the legislation that is on the way. So I think this is a very problematic issue and there is no doubt that we will continue to vote against this issue. In fact, we think it is a bit of an attack on democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219101509	Then it is Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party. No? I didn't see Mrs. Ida Auken. Then it's Mrs. Ida Auken. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219101523	It's okay. I was hiding a little over here in the side, too. Today we are discussing a legislative proposal which could have been fundamentally sensible, because it is based on what the previous government wanted, namely to involve municipalities and water councils in the designation of watercourses. The problem with today's legislative proposal is that it is quite one-sided. You can only take watercourses out. This means that if a municipality or a water council finds out locally that here is a stream we would like to have protected, one cannot take it in, and that means that there is a clear signal from the government that now we are downgrading nature and water again in Denmark. There is a total lack of balance in the relationship between agriculture and nature and the balance that the previous government was very concerned about, both Radical and Social Democracy, to find the right balance. It has been scrapped by the government one way or the other and by the third. It started by losing nitrogen pollution without going out and protecting our groundwater and our fjords better. Now you will allow to pick watercourses out of the waterplanes without also being able to take in some if some have a proper, interesting quality. It's completely unbalanced. So environmentally this is a reckless bill that you are voting through the Folketing today. In addition, it is also democratically deeply problematic that a number of parties, which I simply do not believe have seen the criteria for the proposal, should vote in favour of the draft law. I simply do not believe that the Left has been sitting and reading down all the criteria, because they have only been presented to the Folketing at 1 p.m. 7:00 this morning. Are we really supposed to sit in here with our eyes closed? What will become of the Liberal Alliance, which does not usually vote for things in which they have not looked down properly. They're just voting for a bill now, where the criteria were presented to the Folketing this morning. You practically don't know what you're voting for. So, of course, the Radical Left cannot support this bill. Then I should like to say that it is true that we have a number of farmers who are happy with their increased use of nitrogen and who want to cut more into their watercourses. But to hear a minister from the Left Government, Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen, who is no longer a minister and who fell on this matter, talk about the hated streams, what is that? What kind of a way to talk about some of the most important of Denmark's nature? Beautiful, beautiful, living watercourses, full of fish, grating, which winds through the country, is one of the most Danish we have. What is it to have a government that speaks in this way about the Danish streams? I'll greet you from a lot of people out there who don't hate our watercourses who actually love them. If you manage, you can go in and find Daniel, who's got his movie split over 1,600 times... a movie where he stands and shows us what we're talking about. These are wonderful, beautiful streams that very many people in the country love, which anglers love, and which are an important part of the reason why people settle in rural areas. So don't talk down about our streams, don't look at it unilaterally as a drainage channel for Danish agriculture. So it's also our nature, and we need to have that balance. Finally, I must say to the Conservatives: you have fought a brave battle for these streams. Then why is it that you can't finish it? Is it because you've come into government that you've given up the fight? At first reading, you stood here and promised us that watercourses could be brought in. Then why couldn't we get it through? Why would you not vote in favour of our amendment at second reading, which made possible what you promised at first reading? The same applies to the Danish People's Party. You thought it was an excellent idea. I even think that your rapporteur stood up here on the platform and suggested that you should be able to take in streams, just as you can take them out, and that, of course, we should know the criteria in good time. I think that there are a great many parties that are failing in their value base when they are about to probably vote in favour of this bill, despite the fact that we are not until 8 p.m. 7.00 this morning has seen it, despite the fact that there are unanswered questions, and despite the fact that it is completely one-sidedly focused and does not take the balance between agriculture and nature properly into account at all. So the Radical Left hopes that some will decide, even if it is about to be the last call.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219101924	Thank you to Mrs Ida Auken. Even if it is Christmas and you have to be in the Christmas spirit and mild towards each other, you should try to follow the Rules of Procedure and not use direct charges. Here you go, Mrs. Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219101934	In other words, the legislative procedure has been completely unsatisfactory, as other environmental rapporteurs from the green minority have also pointed out. This is something that a government can do if it has patted it off by a majority prior to the legislative procedure and, above all, if the only relatively green party in the blue block during the legislative procedure becomes a member of the government. The strangest thing is that the government and the Danish People's Party will not allow the municipalities to include watercourses, but only require them to remove watercourses from the protection that lies in being included in the river basin plans. This means that if a municipality now submits that a stream of high natural value and ecological quality or high potential for the same thing has been found and that waters less than 10 km2, then it cannot be included in the water plans. Is this in line with the Water Framework Directive? I find that hard to understand. I have two hopes. One is, of course, that we get another majority that will roll this back. The second is that the municipalities will have the courage to also report good watercourses to the minister and not only give the red map to dug ditches. In my view, there is nothing to prevent a municipality from seeing that there is a river which meets the criteria for being included in the river basin management plans and then joins the minister within or outside this process. We haven't worn the rubber boots and been out in all the 70,000 km of watercourses that exist in Denmark. So, of course, there may also be small streams with good natural and environmental quality when the municipalities are going to start with the green Danish map, which also includes watercourses. Finally, however, I would just like to say that a third hope I have is that the Danish Parliament will support my proposal to refer this back to committee. Because, as I said at the outset, it is a very unsatisfactory process that we should do it at 1 p.m. 7.00 this morning had a very detailed technical review and asked some questions on the basis of what has not yet been answered, and so soon afterwards, and there has in fact also been a consultation where the same people have been locked in, one must then vote on this bill. So I would just like to suggest that it be referred back to committee. And I do not see the explanatory statement, and I have not heard any explanation as to what difference it makes, whether the law enters into force on 1 January, or whether it enters into force only, for example. on 10 January or 14 January. I haven't heard any explanation. So I would ask that it be referred back to committee for consideration.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219102220	Thank you. So now we have heard from Mrs Trine Torp's proposal that the procedure be stopped and the proposal referred back to committee. The debate on interruptions takes place in accordance with the rules for short remarks. Does anyone wish to speak? Mr. Erling Bonnesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219102253	Thank you. Of course we must take good care of our streams. It has been a continuous move throughout from the agricultural and food package, and in every way it has been planned that we should make an extra effort in the watercourses that have the potential for the environment to do so, while also ensuring that the fields can be watered down and that, of course, the economy available for it is taken into account. That is why I can reject all the claims that have been made that we are just going to smash the watercourses and ignore the environment. This is about taking good care of our watercourses, our nature and our environment, while also ensuring development opportunities for agriculture, including drainage of the fields. So for the specific draft law, L 34: It is precisely a part of this work, namely to appoint the water councils, so to speak, to get the local experts, those who have the opportunity to put on the boots, to go into the individual streams and say: what are the watercourses that, for example, are they? do not have a potential and should therefore not be included in it? It is precisely a question of getting it defined so that we do not waste money, but just get the environmental crowns turned to where we get as much environment as possible for the money. Let me also remind you of the fact that a draft law was to be dealt with as a matter of urgency, that the draft law was presented here as part of the package or the legislative catalogue at the beginning of October, and that was first dealt with by me at the end of October. Then it has had its usual process. Finally, I would like to say that the criteria are not, in fact, part of this draft law, because the draft law is about...). Then, on behalf of a majority, I shall simply reject the proposal that has been made to interrupt the debate and refer the proposal back to committee. We believe that the matter is sufficiently enlightened to enable us to vote on it now at the third reading as it stands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219102448	Thank you. And there are several brief comments. Mrs. Ida Auken, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219102502	I'm just gonna ask sir. Erling Bonnesen, whether he shares his colleague Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen's view on the Danish watercourses, namely that they are hated.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219102510	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219102511	What Eva Kjer Hansen has of views on streams etc., I shall not interfere with. Now I am standing here as the rapporteur on the Environment and Food of the Left, and I should like to answer questions which have something to do with L 34, which we are dealing with now.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219102528	Here you go, Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219102530	I'll take that as a no. Then I'd like to hear sir. Erling Bonnesen, why we cannot then take watercourses that are in a good state of nature and that would be a very good idea to take care of, if you find local ones that may not have been included in the plans. Why does the Left not want to support the idea that some watercourses can also be taken in? Why do you only want to take some out?
ParlaMint-DK_20161219102549	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219102551	This proposal is also based on the fact that we in Denmark have, I think, about 70,000 km of watercourses, and that there will then be some money available which we can then prioritize to spend so to speak making a real environmental effort in the right places. Then I think we can agree very quickly that it is a question of getting those environmental crowns into those streams where it makes sense and where there is potential. And on the other hand, it is obvious that we also have a process in which, of course, we take out those streams that do not have an environmental potential.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219102623	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219102627	Thank you. There is, of course, a good tradition of disagreement here in the Danish Parliament, but there is also a good tradition that we agree that legislation must be based on good democratic standards. Will the rapporteur not comment on whether the rapporteur honestly believes that it is an expression of good legal treatment, of good democratic standards, that the committee is at 8 p.m. 7 this morning, in other words a few hours ago, was informed of the key criteria that determine how many kilometres of watercourses we are taking out of the water plans? Is it proper in relation to the committee and democratic procedure that we are only so late in getting something so crucial and centrally enlightened by the Ministry?
ParlaMint-DK_20161219102715	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219102716	This bill, L 34, was made known to me at the beginning of October in connection with the legislative catalogue, and it was first dealt with at the end of October. And that is exactly what it is all about... getting the Water Councils appointed. The second point raised by the questioner here is the criteria, and it has nothing to do with this bill. In general terms, of course, I can only agree with the questioner that there needs to be proper legal treatment, and in relation to what the draft law is about, namely to appoint the water councils, I think there has been a good, long process on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219102747	Here you go, Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219102749	It is interesting that the rapporteur for the ruling party, the Left, does not think that it is relevant, what criteria we use when choosing which watercourses are going into the water plans and which watercourses are going out. I think it must be obvious to anyone who attends our meeting today that it is, of course, crucial what criteria we use when assessing which watercourses should be protected by water plans.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219102821	Here you go, sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219102823	Of course, it has a significance when those who are going to go through the watercourses have some tools to work with, including the criteria that the questioner also asks about. But it just has nothing to do with this bill. And in relation to what the draft law is about, namely creating the legal basis for the appointment of the water councils, it is, in fact, a question of not interrupting the proceedings, as I could understand that some in a minority would like to. Nah, it's about getting momentum in it, so we'll get those water bodies appointed so they can get started, and then, of course, they'll have to be equipped with some criteria. But that is another aspect of the matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219102849	Thank you. Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219102854	Thank you. These criteria, which were presented this morning at 1 p.m. 7 p.m., is absolutely central to the consequences of this law in the real world, as the rapporteur knows very well. So I'd like to ask Mr. Erling Bonnesen, whether he would be happy to have asked a number of questions after a technical examination of something as central as these criteria and not have been able to get an answer before the Left had to take a position on the third reading. Would this be a situation that would be satisfactory if it were the other way around?
ParlaMint-DK_20161219102930	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219102932	It may then be possible to raise some issues that have nothing to do with this bill. I understand that Enhedslisten does too. I must just remind you once again, as I have already said, that this draft law, L 34, which we are discussing now, and which I think we are ready to vote on, is about the appointment of these water councils, and I cannot really understand that Enhedslisten is going to postpone that process, because it is also about getting local experts into work. And in order for them to do so, we must have them appointed, and that is what the bill here is about. The criteria that Enhedslisten and others ask about are, after all, some of the tools that the water councils need to be equipped with, and it will of course run in its own process as it should now have nothing to do with this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219103013	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219103015	What a very large minority in the committee has asked for is to have the opportunity to assess the consequences of the law by asking a number of questions and by getting answers to them before the third reading of the bill. Is it not also a reasonable requirement, which the Left would be asking for a legislative procedure, that if the Left has questions about a legislative proposal and the consequences of a legislative proposal in the real world, then the Left also expects to have answers to those questions before the Left has to sit and take a position on a third reading?
ParlaMint-DK_20161219103045	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219103046	I can refer to what I have already answered in the past, and then I have to say that I am surprised that Enhedslisten is trying to unlock some things now. It is now also a question of completing the work on the criteria so that those who then have to work in the watercourses with their boots on will have the right criteria to work on. And with reference to the extraordinary committee meeting which was this morning at 1 p.m. 7, then there was a fine technical review of it, and that was exactly what was also promised to the minority in an earlier part of the phase, where you asked if you could not have a review of the criteria and be allowed to see them. Yes, so we have fulfilled what was promised, that is my view.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219103129	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219103133	Thank you. I just want to hear from the rapporteur about something that I have been looking for the answer to in almost all the debates and meetings we have had on this matter: is there any reason why things should go so fast? Well, I only hear arguments when I have asked the question that sounds something like: now we are a majority so that we can decide that it should just go on and we just want to get started and have these water councils appointed. But is there some fixed rear edge, that is, something that has to be achieved before the growing season starts before you have to fertilise before you have to harvest? What is it we're so busy with?
ParlaMint-DK_20161219103210	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219103211	Thank you. Well, I guess the questioner is just as interested as anyone else that we get the good local forces we can call them local experts into the work in quotes. And in order for them to be able to come to what they are standing like this, they are tripping and ready... we must have adopted it here in the Folketing first. So that is a good reason why there is no reason to interrupt it and thus delay it. We need to move forward so that they can get started. That is also why we say that we are in fact fully informed about what the matter is about. Then there has been discussion about the criteria, and I have answered that in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219103246	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219103248	But the criteria are so central, because that is the basis on which we have to choose these streams. So what I am asking is: is there any reason at all for us to be urgent? Well, we could just shoot it a month. That is to say, it could enter into force on 1 February, and it could even be earlier. And we could get started pointing out the water bodies. If I know it right out there, you're thinking about who's gonna sit in these tubs, who's gonna call, and some may have already started calling. So what is this milestone that stands somewhere that we cannot hear anything about?
ParlaMint-DK_20161219103327	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219103329	Well, on the basis of what the questioner himself says, that you're doing out there how now, and how are we going to do it and how are we going to do it? And since this draft law on the appointment of water councils was tabled as part of the legislative package at the beginning of October and first dealt with at the end of October and also answered all the way up until now, nothing prevents us from moving forward. We need to move forward in this matter, and that is why we are also refusing to stop the debate by a majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219103401	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219103404	Well, I'd like to follow a little along the same lines. Let us say that the date was 10 January, that is to say that it could enter into force there so that we could actually have a proper handling of this matter. What's stopping it? Because in relation to these water bodies, where you are thinking about who should sit in them, you might ask: how many of them jump in the rubber boots the day after 1 January and go out and look at watercourses? Or how many municipal councils have even gathered during this period to decide who should sit on these water councils? So I would like to hear quite clearly: what is the difference between whether it comes into force on 1 January or, for example, whether it comes into force on 1 January? January 10th?
ParlaMint-DK_20161219103450	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219103451	Well, it's kind of a continuation and almost a copy of the previous questions. So I can sort of answer the same thing there. It would be crazy to go and create uncertainty as to whether the water resources are going to materialise at all, after we have now had a very thorough and long treatment of it. This was proposed in the first reading of the legislative package at the end of October, and then there has been the usual process. Then it would be strange now that the case is fully enlightened in relation to having these water councils appointed, to stop it at the last minute. It is fair enough that there is a discussion about criteria. It just has nothing to do with this bill, and the questioner knows that well from the review this morning. And then I also think that nothing has been raised in relation to the fact that what has been promised has been done. The criteria have been submitted to the committee before the third reading, and we have had an opportunity to see them and to deal with them.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219103543	Here you go, Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219103546	Okay, so any uncertainty out there is a more important argument for maintaining this time than it is that the members of the Folketing are properly informed and have been answered the questions they have asked.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219103600	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219103601	No, because, as I have said several times, this bill is about identifying the Water Councils. It's not about those criteria. There is a minority who then, like trying to create uncertainty and flicker around the process in relation to the designation of local water bodies by raising questions about it with the criteria. But as I have answered several times, and I can do that in conclusion here, this is just about getting the water bodies appointed so that they can get started. The second issue to which this debate has been devoted is the criteria, and this has a different course.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219103631	Thank you. Is there anyone else who would like to take the floor for a brief comment on the interruption of proceedings? Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Erling Bonnesen. As no one else has asked for the floor, we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed interruption of the procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219103642	A vote can be taken. I shall conclude the vote. In favour 51 (DF, V, LA and KF) voted against 52 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), [no votes for or against 0]. The proposal has been rejected and we will then resume the debate on the legislative proposal itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219103724	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219103739	I take the floor primarily to answer some of the opposition's questions and criticisms in relation to the bill and the process. I understand that the opposition is sorry that the criteria to be used by the Water Councils to determine which watercourses are to be included in the river basin plans have only reached the opposition here at 8 a.m. Seven this morning. I can understand that. However, I would also like to say that we must be aware that, in the governing parties, we are of course aware of the content of a legislative proposal before it is tabled. It is just to say that when it is claimed that we are voting through something that has not been known until 8 a.m. Seven this morning, that's not right. Of course, the government wouldn't do that. That is also true, as Mr. Erling Bonnesen said that the draft law here is not technically about the criteria for which watercourses should be included. It's about reducing the water resources. The draft law itself contains little new in relation to what was already known from the agricultural package. It was just an implementation of the agreement we made then. That is why, as a matter of fact, there have been no major changes in the positions of the time when we had those negotiations. We have some river basin management plans, which include approx. 19,000 km. of Denmark 78,000 km. watercourses. The fact that a river is included in the river basin management plans means that you have an obligation to work to ensure that they are in good ecological condition, as it is called. This does not mean that you are then allowed to pour poison into a stream or otherwise destroy it if it is not included in a river basin plan. But that means that, in relation to the rivers covered, there is an obligation, for example, to ensure that there is an adequate ejection on them so that there can be a proper animal life in them. When we then negotiated the agricultural package, many farmers thought that there are too many watercourses included in the river basin management plans. Out in the fields there are a lot of narrow, flat, dug canals, which actually only have a drainage purpose and are not natural streams, but are only drainage channels. There are many farmers who think that it is wrong that, in relation to the canals that have never been natural and are artificial, there should be an objective to restore them. Because there's nothing to restore. These are artificial channels where there has never been a good ecological state. We thought this was an objection which was difficult to completely override, if it is true that there are a lot of narrow, flat, dug canals, for then they should not be included in the objectives of making them natural paradises with trout and frogs and everything else. There is so little doubt as to how many of these watercourses are involved, i.e. how many channels there are erroneously in the river basin plans. There we had different views. Some felt that all the small streams, that is to say streams with a catchment area of less than 10 m2, should be removed from the river basin plans. There were others of us who thought it was a little too violent, because we were afraid that there would then be a lot of watercourses that have a natural value that would be taken out of the river basin plans. That is why, in relation to the agricultural package, we decided to do the process that is now being adopted, which is that the water bodies ~ which we have 23 of, and which are bodies where there are both people from agriculture and people from nature and the environment organisations ~ must look through the watercourses in order to assess which of them have a natural value. The draft law and the criteria that have been presented this morning state that it is only those streams that do not have a natural value or potential for what has to be taken out of the river basin plans. This means that we will not then remove streams that have a rich natural life and a natural value. They don't get out of the river basin plans. The watercourses that are going to go out of the river basin plans are streams with no natural value or potential. It is the water bodies that have to decide whether a watercourse has a natural value and thus must remain in the river basin management plans or whether a watercourse does not have a natural value or potential for it and therefore must be taken out of the river basin management plans. We think this is a good process because it ensures that environmentalists also sit out locally, who know the watercourses much better than we do at Christiansborg, and decide whether the watercourses should be included or not. This is the process that we are now adopting and a decision has been taken with the criteria that have been laid down here that the water bodies can look quite broadly at all small streams. But it is clear that one should not imagine that many, many thousands of kilometres of watercourses are going out. At any rate, I do not have the imagination to imagine that will be the recommendations of the Water Councils. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219104303	There are some brief comments. It is first Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219104308	I'm standing here with sir. Rasmus Jarlov's speech at first reading, where he says that if watercourses appear, which are in a good state of nature, they must of course be able to get into the water plans, and further: I have to admit that I do not know the process of how to ensure that they enter, but of course something can also be taken into the water plans. Can the rapporteur 1) explain to us what has happened since the first reading, in addition to Conservatives having joined the government? Secondly, can the rapporteur perhaps explain whether he understands this if some people are a little disappointed that the Conservatives have changed their position between the first and second readings to allow watercourses to be taken into the water plans as well?
ParlaMint-DK_20161219104344	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219104345	It's not that we're in government. But I must tell Mrs Ida Auken that I suggested that we might support such an amendment. But there I have to say that I have to stick to what we have agreed in the agricultural package. The text from a year ago is fairly clear, and it is about looking at the river basin management plans to see if there are any watercourses that have been wrongly included in the river basin management plans. There must, of course, be the possibility of taking in watercourses, but that will not be until the next planning period. There will be no such thing with the process that we are launching now. It is clear that one could, of course, have views as to whether or not this should be the case. But there I have to stick to the deal we've made.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219104430	Here you go, Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219104432	Well, thank you for that honesty, anyway. Then the rapporteur also said that, of course, the government had known the criteria before the Folketing. Can the rapporteur not understand that we are a little puzzled that it has now been said no to the fact that it has to be returned to committee once we have the criteria at 1 p.m. 7:00 this morning, while the government has actually known them for a long time? Would it not have been good style to present them in the Folketing as well?
ParlaMint-DK_20161219104453	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219104455	It would have been better if the opposition had also had the criteria before. I'd like to admit that. That has not been possible. I do not think it will make any difference or I am actually quite sure that it will not make any difference because the opposition will vote against this either way. Technically, there is nothing wrong with our work here in the Folketing, because we are not voting on the criteria. It has always been clear that the criteria laid down are some that the conciliation circle decides and not the Folketing. Therefore, the opposition will not have any influence on the criteria. Nor would it be done if we discontinued their treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219104533	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219104536	Thank you. It is strange to hear a representative of the government say that there is no democratic problem, because the parties who have to vote for the proposal have the relevant information. After all, the parties that are voting against are not fully informed. I think it is a failure of the watercourses, and I think it is a failure of a good democratic standard and of a legislative process here in the Folketing. Will the rapporteur not tell us when the rapporteur was informed of the criteria under which the water bodies are to take the watercourses out of the water plans?
ParlaMint-DK_20161219104614	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219104616	No, I won't. We have no desire for our internal discussions to be laid out for public scrutiny. It is a process of government that has been going on and I will not go into it in detail.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219104634	Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219104636	It is ridiculous that we cannot find out, but I think it might also be wise not to answer it, because we had a committee meeting only last Thursday, when we were told that the Ministry was not ready to give us this information. So if it turns out that the government had the information, but just did not want to give it to the large green minority present in the Chamber today, it is just extremely critical. Will Conservatives not give an objective reason why the criteria do not allow the water bodies to take watercourses back into waterplanes if their natural state changes, for example as a consequence of increased or less drainage and hence less ochre in a stream?
ParlaMint-DK_20161219104719	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219104721	I can say that it is true what has been said in committee. There's nothing there that can be highly critical. I can only say about this opportunity to take in watercourses that we have to stick to the political agreement we have made with the agricultural package. That is the only reason I can give for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219104744	Thank you. Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219104748	I have to admit, I think it's rather shocking when sir... Rasmus Jarlov stands on the platform and says that the Danish Parliament's blue parties have been presented with these criteria well before the third reading, while the rest of us had them presented at 3 p.m. 7:00 this morning. We have even asked for them several times in good time, and it was only last Thursday postponed until Monday morning at 9 a.m. 7 p.m., while apparently sitting and presenting them to some others and we were given a reason for not being ready until today at 7 p.m. Seven o'clock. The rapporteur then puts forward a number of points which I believe run counter to the information we had this morning at 9 a.m. 7.00, e.g. that only artificial canals, flat dug canals, will be taken out. This morning at 1:00 a.m. 7.00 we were told that it could also be natural streams, which had only been treated harshly for a number of years. So I would like to ask the rapporteur because it is also contrary to what we were told this morning whether the rapporteur can guarantee that thousands of watercourses will not go out of the water plans as a result of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219104854	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219104856	No, I can't say anything about miles. I can say that my expectation will be that it will be relatively limited how many streams go out. But if the water bodies go through all the watercourses and then find out that there are a lot of them... many, many thousands of kilometers... that are just flat, dug, artificial canals, drainage canals that only serve a watering purpose and that have no natural potential, then they will go out. But it is only them, not streams of natural value or great natural value. Any watercourse can be said to have some kind of natural value. In relation to this when the criteria have been presented, I would like to say that it is true that the criteria have not been clear, but in addition to that, I will let the Minister answer questions about the processes. Of course, we in the government parties have some prior discussions on all legislative proposals. Every party that has been in government knows this, and I also believe that the Enhedslisten knows it. The government parties will talk before things are put forward. Otherwise, it is not government policy, and it also means that the governing parties will be involved before the rest of the Folketing and the opposition do. That is how it is; we all know that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219105012	Mrs. Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219105014	I can also assure you that I look forward very much to the Minister explaining that, Mr President. Rasmus Jarlov has said on the platform here today. If it turns out that thousands of kilometres of watercourses have to be taken out, I would ask Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, whether the Conservative People's Party will then be prepared to intervene. For now the rapporteur says that the rapporteur has no imagination What is interesting is not the rapporteur's imagination, but is he prepared to do something if it turns out that it is going so far that thousands of kilometres of watercourses are going to get out of the water plans as a result of L 34? Will the rapporteur's party then intervene?
ParlaMint-DK_20161219105053	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219105054	As I said, the number of kilometres is not a criterion that we have laid down for which watercourses should be included in the river basin plans in the future. What is the criterion is that watercourses should not be removed, which have a good ecological state or the potential to achieve it without excessive costs, which are completely out of proportion with the gain that will be there. That is the criterion. Therefore, I cannot say that we have some limit of a number of kilometres, but I can of course guarantee that we will intervene if it is the case that we remove streams which have a great natural value. For the purpose of the draft law and the criteria laid down are that the watercourses which have natural value should continue to be included in the river basin management plans. Therefore, it should not be feared that good streams of fish and great natural value will lose their status in the river basin plans.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219105157	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219105200	Thank you. There is, after all, like the factual content of this matter, and then there is the process, which has also become a discussion. And there it is the case with processes that they draw tracks, that is, they draw tracks in the future. If you accept one process under one government, it will be the next time under another government that that government will say: well, you did. So this is going to have some consequences. And that's why I just want to ask sir. Rasmus Jarlov, about Mr. Rasmus Jarlov is satisfied with the process that has taken place and with Mr. Rasmus Jarlov believes that we should continue such a process here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219105240	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219105242	Well, I think I also said before that it would, of course, have been better if the criteria could have been presented to the whole parliament earlier. I think the government will admit that too, but you have to ask the Minister that. But, of course, we would have liked to have had that, so it was also the intention that it should come sooner. However, what has been promised has been put forward, that is to say that the criteria are clear before the third reading. Not long before the third reading, I have to admit that, but what we have promised has been fulfilled. And, as I said, what we are voting on now is not the criteria. That is the content of the draft law on which we are to vote. And that's why we accept this process, but of course it would have been better if it had been presented sooner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219105325	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219105326	That was a little a politician's answer on the one hand and, on the other, it was not very clear. But I have to understand, sir. Rasmus Jarlov in the sense that if future governments use the same process, there will be no protest from Mr. Rasmus Jarlov. Well, this method has been institutionalized, so to speak. Or is it the case that, for example, the Conservative People's Party. will help in some way to state that this should not happen in the future? Is this something that you want to be involved in in some way or other? what you can use of tools for it; an approach to the Bureau, a report, what do I know or is this the procedure for the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20161219105409	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219105410	I can only say that we are not deaf to the criticism that is coming, but I do not feel that I can comment on what decisions and guidelines we should have. I think that requires a more thorough discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219105434	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219105508	Has everyone voted? Looks like it. In favour of voting 53 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 50 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219105607	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219105618	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. In favour, 78 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219105653	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219105703	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will be taken at the end of the debate. In favour of 87 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), against 15 (EL and ALT), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219105741	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219105750	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. In favour of 57 (DF, V, LA, RV and KF), against 46 (S, EL, ALT and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219105831	No amendments have been tabled. Mrs Eva Flyvholm wishes to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219105845	We have now discussed this proposal several times in the Chamber and I have to say that I am left with a fairly clear impression that the education ceiling is not just a matter on which we have political disagreements. This proposal is also a proposal that has been made all too quickly in a process which was about something quite different from the education system. It is simply not fair that there are a lot of students who are now in a mess. And it is not going to be any better if there are too many things in the proposal that are not connected at all, that students, schools and organisations have not been properly consulted in the process and that, at the same time, there are such extremely stressed deadlines that it will already apply from a few weeks' time, so that students who have been guided to take their education in a certain way will not now be able to follow that course. Several of the rapporteurs have actually acknowledged, since we had the debate here on Friday, that it is true that the timetable is too tight, and I think it is very nice to have the honesty that one can agree to that. However, I must say that it is extremely regrettable that it is not something that is being corrected here during the course of the debate, especially when it is the case that we in the Enhedslisten, the SF, the Radical and the Alternative have actually put forward a proposal which proposes to postpone this for a year. Because you could have just pressed the green button, and at least you would have repaired some of the worst consequences of it. So I have to say, this has just been an unusually bad process. And that is why I am sure that in future we will discuss this proposal very many times in the Folketing. In relation to the comments that have been made during the debate, it can be said that the Social Democrats have quite clearly defended this proposal that there should be funding for the benefit agreement. I think it should be borne in mind first of all that there are still a great many people who are falling out of the benefit system; the agreement is not enough; much more needs to be done to help them. However, I think that playing students and people who have lost their jobs against each other and financing an allowance agreement by taking resources from education is a completely wrong approach to having to do so. I have to say that I think is a completely wrong approach, especially since this proposal also threatens that more people have to go out and buy themselves for education and they need to spend money on user charges. This is therefore a double social problem, because it will be even more difficult to have the opportunity to borrow a lot of money for education if, for example, your parents. have lost their jobs and you have no opportunity to get help from home. So I think this is a very wrong way to go, and I would very much like to warn against the fact that we are starting to look at opening up to introduce more user charges in the future with this proposal, because it will really only distort our education system even more. Then there is the economic basis for this proposal. It is also very much based on the fact that there will be dynamic effects that could be used to finance the benefit agreement. I think it is very doubtful whether all the dynamic effects will manifest themselves. That's one part of it. And the second part of that is that it is also possible to see at the same time that very many students will certainly not complete their education and that we do not yet know what this will have with economic consequences. I think that will be a very big problem. Finally, I must say that the very idea of setting such a ceiling in the education system basically runs counter to what we need right now. A few weeks ago we visited the Centre for Quantum Physics with the Danish Parliament's Education Committee, where there was such a highly acclaimed researcher who told us what he was doing in connection with this very ground-breaking research out there; at the same time he said that he was surprised that it was so difficult to change subjects in Denmark; that it was so that one had to lay down on a road even when one was perhaps 17 years old; and that there was a lack of flexibility through the educational system. That was one of the things in Denmark he wondered about. And I think it is such a pity that another legislative proposal is now being adopted which is helping to hamper that flexibility. So I am sure that in future we will be discussing this a lot more and that we will see many more stories in the press about this educational ceiling and hear many more protests and criticism from students. I am also quite sure that, in the long run, large parts of this bill will end up being tampered with, but I have to say that I really, really wish that instead we could find ourselves in a situation where we just did not adopt it in the Folketing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219110359	Thank you. There is a brief comment on Mrs Christine Antorini, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219110403	Thank you. It should not be a secret that we in the Social Democratic Party think that it makes a huge difference to the more than 2 000 people a year who do not fall out of the benefit system because of the improvements we made together with the Left and the Danish People's Party. It makes a world a difference to them that they don't go out. They can find themselves in a situation where they actually barely have an income, depending on their family position and where they can leave house and home. After all, I hope that Enhedslisten understands that, because it almost sounded as if it didn't make a difference to the 2,000 people. I would actually just like to ask Enhedslisten's rapporteur to confirm that no new forms of user charges will be introduced with this bill. There are exactly the possibilities that exist today with the current user payment in relation to the continuing training system; that is, there is no new user payment with this bill, and I just need the Enhedslisten's rapporteur to confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219110502	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219110504	Thank you very much for the question. Fortunately, this proposal does not yet provide for the opening up of new forms of user charges. I hope that the Social Democrats will also be involved in saying that 'no', we should not, under any circumstances, open up to that. But it is the case that more students are going to lose the opportunity they have right now to take two courses, which are jointly funded by all of us on the part of society. They will in future be cut off from doing so with this training ceiling, and therefore they will have to resort to user fees in cases where this is then possible. And I think that is an incredibly bad development, because it is odd that not all students have the opportunity to pay DKK 60,000. e.g. for such an education. Finally, in relation to the daily allowance, I fully recognise that there is a need to save the people who stand to fall out of the benefit system, and I also think that more needs to be done than has been done with the agreement, but it cannot be the case that we should finance it by taking money from students, some of the other groups in society, who have the very least. That funding must simply be found elsewhere, and I think that should also be in the interests of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219110616	Mrs. Christine Antorini.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219110617	I am pleased that the rapporteur can confirm that no new opportunities for user charges will be introduced with this bill. However, I noticed that the rapporteur also called this an education ceiling. It is not, of course, a restriction on the possibility of taking two whole free higher education courses at the same level or lower. That is why I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether it is not true that everyone with the higher education they have can build on top and that it is precisely not a ceiling. Everyone can build on top, which means that if you have a bachelor's degree or a professional degree, you can build on top with a relevant master's degree.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219110653	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219110654	After all, this proposal will prevent a large number of people from continuing to study, because when you already have a bachelor's degree, you can't start over on a new bachelor's degree and then get that Master's degree. There are, among other things: the example of nurses who cannot become doctors there are a number of examples that this cannot be done. In addition, I must say that I think it is a very, very strange approach to education to say that it should be all the way up to the candidate level. There are a lot of good and meaningful combinations, for example. teachers, who also become social workers, i.e. people who meaningfully and with very great benefit combine bachelor education.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219110733	Then it's mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219110735	Thank you for the floor. Mrs Flyvholm spends part of her speaking time talking about the terrible thing about user charges. As Mrs Flyvholm, as rapporteur, knows, an amendment has been tabled which has disappeared once again with regard to the possibility of user charges. It has also been called for by several of the critical parties in this Chamber. Can Mrs Flyvholm inform me and perhaps the wonder viewers of the broadcast here and the debate in the Chamber about which parties have put forward the proposal for the introduction of user charges?
ParlaMint-DK_20161219110810	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219110812	Yes, I can inform the rapporteur that it is not Enhedslisten who has put forward this proposal for user charges, because we do not want to open up any more user charges in the education system. That it is the alternative, the Radicals and the SF, that has made this proposal in order to accommodate some of those who stand to be most squeezed during the transitional period must then be at their own expense. I do not think it is a good idea to go that way to introduce more user charges, but it is also an expression that people are desperate here because this is going to hit a lot of students who get stuck.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219110850	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219110851	Well, there is no doubt that Enhedslisten's rapporteur and my party strongly disagree on this. We believe that it makes sense for society to finance education, and we also think it makes sense for there to be an expectation that this education will then be used afterwards. Now it is the case that I have not seen a proposal from the Enhedslisten to remove the dimensioning, i.e. the limitation in the number of places which means that you have to have a high cut in order to enter some courses and a low cut in order to enter other courses. What does Enhedslisten's rapporteur think is the most solidarity to give a person who may have two courses, education number three, or to give a person who does not have an education a full education?
ParlaMint-DK_20161219110925	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219110927	I think that the most solid and sensible thing is to ensure that everyone has proper access to education in our society, and I do not think we do that by going in and restricting the way it is happening here. And with regard to dimensioning, I must say that we in the Enhedslisten have also had a number of criticisms about the fact that too many are being cut off from entering education which is both needed and which will be meaningful to them. Finally, it has to be said that user charges are one of the things we know to place the most barriers in our education system for people who do not come from rich or well-educated homes to get an education, and we must avoid that at all costs.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219111004	Thank you to Mrs Eva Flyvholm. There are no more brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219111018	Thank you. If this was a classroom, I would do such an exercise, and I won't do that, because it's not a classroom where I would ask how many of those present who have taken two courses themselves; how many have children who have taken two courses; how many have children who may have taken an education, but have found out that it was a wrong education, and would like to take another one; or how many just want for their children and grandchildren or for themselves; if you might have to do something else, that there is the possibility that you can make a new choice, that is, if you've found out that the choice you've made wasn't right for you. Basically, I think we are missing something in this whole debate on L 69, and that is that we miss asking ourselves: why are we really having higher education in Denmark? Why was a university created at the time? Why is it that we want people to train? We would like that because at least if you ask me we have a desire that as a society we have a level of knowledge that can carry us into the future; that we as a society have an opportunity to bring about change. Change is, of course, something that we have had to create throughout our civilisation through education. In the old days, in old tribal societies, you didn't go to college and get a degree, but you might go to the masters of those you grew up with. And part of learning and training was precisely about learning how to change the elements of the practice one had in meeting the challenges ahead of one. When the neighboring tribe had made some new weapon, one had to refine one's own weapon so that one could respond. That's what education is all about. After all, it is a question of establishing a knowledge that will benefit society. And it's about how we can make change. This discussion is linked to this bill, because what is happening here is that we are going to have some young people who have taken an education that they subsequently find out they are not passionate about and that does not make sense to them. And if you're not passionate about what you're doing, and if there's no point in what you're doing, then you're not going to create any kind of change at all. Then you will be one of those people who do not thrive on themselves and your job, and you will be an employee who does not create the change that all employers demand. And you're not going to help raise this society even higher in terms of being able to face a future that we don't know. That's what education has to do. And some of that we limit through this bill, because all of a sudden we say to people: No, if you've made a wrong choice where you make something that you don't really think is exciting for you, then it's just too bad that you're just scratching, because that's all we have to offer you. It is so unfortunate, and I think that the discussion about what we really want with our education system in Denmark, I would really like to go with the other rapporteurs in the Folketing, because I think we are missing it, and I think we have missed it in connection with this bill. I hope that the Minister will possibly take the initiative to take that discussion at a level which I think we deserve in the Danish Parliament. We've been around a lot of things. Last Friday we stood here, and today we stand here again, and we have stood here before. I will not repeat myself, but in the end I will just say: I shall be the first to reach out a hand. If at some point it turns out that things change, that politicians change their attitude, that we have a new government, then I shall be the first to reach out from the alternative to all those who might want to do this again, to withdraw this legislation. Because I think you make a big mistake. And I hope that at some point, when the time is right, we will be able to reverse that mistake. So with a great recommendation to turn down this bill any minute now, it will be my wish for the future of Denmark's youth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219111445	There are a few brief comments. First, it's Mrs Christine Antorini.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219111449	Thank you. If there is anything the Socialists have always fought for and stand for, then it is to provide opportunities through education. And this bill doesn't change everyone's free and equal right to go to higher education. There are also a number of exemptions which mean that you can actually take more whole new higher education on society's account: if your health is not there, if you want to train in some areas where there are good opportunities to get jobs afterwards, or if you have outdated education. That is why I need the rapporteur to just confirm that those who would be affected by it and I agree that you are affected by a legislative proposal, and unfortunately that happens, then it is not funny at all. of the students. There are about 66,000 who start a higher education every year, and that will be 2%. by those who will be affected by this bill. Again, I would like to say that I understand them, but that is what we are talking about. It's just that you don't get a picture that you can't train in any other direction at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219111559	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219111600	I have never said it is really very important for me to say from up here that this bill restricts free and equal access to education, because we still have free and equal access to education in Denmark as a starting point. So I would like to acknowledge that. That's not what I think is the problem with this bill either. The problem is precisely the 2% which cannot be allowed to choose the education they are passionate about. That's the problem. And they're gonna get hit. I know that the bill does not affect some people and others, but that they are being hit, I think it is a disaster, both for themselves and for our society as a whole. That's what I think is the big problem with this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219111642	Mrs. Christine Antorini. No, I'm sorry, there are several brief comments. It is Mrs Mette Reissmann who has two more.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219111653	Thank you. I could, of course, start by asking the Alternative's rapporteur whether she knows anyone who has fallen out of the benefit system, who has lived with the fear of not being able to get both ends financially to reach together and who has lived in insecurity in relation to what the further life should be like. It is possible that the alternative rapporteur does not know anyone like that, but I can promise you that we in the Social Democratic Party are doing so, and we are very concerned about precisely patching up gaps in a benefit system that has been destroyed by the bourgeois and among other things. I would also like to thank the Liberal and Democratic Reformist Group. That is why we have given priority to what we have done. Would we have wanted the money to be found somewhere else? Yes, we did, but that is what has been politically possible. Now Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier is very concerned about change, and we are also in the Social Democratic Party, but I would like to know where in the bill there are concrete restrictions on helping to bring about change, because I simply do not understand it. So I am afraid that the rapporteur of the alternative simply speaks against better knowledge here.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219111753	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219111754	I don't think I do. First of all, yes, I know people who have fallen out of the benefit system. We think in the alternative that it is as disastrous and terrible as they do in the Social Democratic Party, but find that money elsewhere. That is the only message I have with regard to the benefit system. I think it is a pity that these two things are being held against each other. I simply think it is bad political style that we are holding it against each other and that this draft law on the training ceiling is necessary, otherwise you will fall out of the benefit system. You could have found that money somewhere else, and otherwise you couldn't have been in a deal. That is the way it is, the way it is politics, and that is something that we have to face up to. Secondly, on the subject of change, I would like to say that when I talk about change, it is about the fact that if you want to have some people out in our society, who can bring about a change that is the ones who are leading the way, who are those who want something else, they must burn for what they are doing, and there is the challenge in the bill, because if they cannot get into their dream study, they cannot burn for what they are doing, because then they will come into a study that they are not passionate about.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219111906	Then it's Mrs. Mette Reissmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219111907	Thank you. I would just like to stress to both Mrs Magdalene Maier and others that social democracy is a party that takes responsibility. Social democracy is a party that actually also makes some difficult choices, even when it hurts. I would also like to ask Mrs Magdalene Maier in this context whether the rapporteur can confirm that an exception has actually been included in the draft law with regard to the established continuing training system, so that people in the middle of life can also be able to increase their own competences so that they can also help to change Denmark so that it is driven forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219111944	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219111945	The last thing I can confirm is that it does not solve the problem of the fact that you cannot take the education you are passionate about if it is one of those that you cannot go into, for example. in relation to part-time training or if one of them is exempt. Responsibility, let us take a responsibility debate another day, because I often hear, particularly from the Socialists, that you are a party that takes responsibility, and that is a fine recognition with a fine perspective, but let us talk about what responsibility is really about then, because that is an interesting discussion I think. For me, responsibility is at least about giving our young people the opportunity to take the education that they are passionate about, even if they have taken the wrong one first.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219112026	The last brief remark I have made is that of Mr Seligman. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219112035	Then there was a light in the microphone. Thank you. It is the rapporteur's very passionate remark that we cannot risk going into the education we are passionate about. I know this is extremely sad news, but our education system is dimensioned. Every year thousands of young people get the news that unfortunately they have not gone into the education they are passionate about because their average is not high enough. They then choose something else, and many of them will be very happy with the work they get afterwards. So it will be the same in the future. The rapporteur represents a party that wants change, and that is change in many areas. One of the most significant changes, I can understand both in Mr. Uffe Elbæk, with whom I have enjoyed much discussion, and also on the alternative party programme and postings in various newspapers, is that you have to work 30 hours each week. This presupposes, if it is to be possible, that we spend all economic space in the future to finance it, i.e. zero growth as far as we can see on all public expenditure items. The rapporteur talks about making the difficult choices and finding the money elsewhere. If the economic policy of the rapporteur's party becomes reality, the situation we are in now will be what we will be dealing with for many years to come. It is not about difficult choices; it is about the rapporteur representing a party that has so far chosen always to be on the right and convenient side.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219112150	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219112152	At any rate, I represent a party that has presented a financial bill that is fully funded, so it is to the end. First of all, I would like to say that there is no one who can enter immediately, and you cannot just press a button and say that I would like to go into that education, but there are plenty of opportunities to earn points. Then you can get in through quota 2. After all, however, we have a system in which, if you do not have the average required to enter the education you want, you can go other ways of getting in through other quota systems. This possibility is being withdrawn by this bill on those courses where it is not possible, for example. to read part-time. So that's a limitation. We have a dimensioning and we have a system called quota 1 and quota 2, but it has always been possible to go into the training you would if you were working in that direction through the quota 2 system.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219112241	Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219112243	Now the rapporteur mentioned that the economic policy of the alternative was fully funded. I think I can point out several articles with quotes from recognised economic experts both in the Ministry of Finance, in various think tanks and other things that say exactly the opposite. We can have that discussion at another time. However, the point is that I have to arrest the claim that we need an education system in which everyone can have what they are most passionate about. Of course we do. There is nothing to prevent young people in the future from applying to the education they are most passionate about. What I am merely trying to give out of realism is that today, unfortunately, not everyone always gets their wishes fulfilled in the first place, and so it will not be in the future either.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219112322	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219112323	We fully agree on this, not in the first place, and then we can work for this in the second round, and that is what we must continue to have the opportunity to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219112330	Now we thank the rapporteur and move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219112337	Thank you. We have had this debate on a number of occasions, as the previous rapporteurs have also mentioned, and in the Radical Left we also believe that this bill is moving Denmark in the wrong direction. The Prime Minister is currently sitting at Marienborg and discussing the future: what will the future look like? What will come and what will future jobs look like? And then we sit here in the Parliamentary Chamber, setting a ceiling on education. So there's a little hello man ax handle over that. This is the first time we've ever come to say to people: No matter how good you are, no matter how hard you try, you can't move on this way, you're not even allowed to try. We have never done that in Denmark before. I still think that's worth dwelling on. You are many who have been approached by a lot of students, but quite specifically I would just like to mention a request from Mads, who wrote to me as one of the last very late last night. Mads is 24 years old and he lives in Odense, and he started physiotherapist education in 2013. He was very fond of what was great joy, curiosity and passion to help people. He writes: I really felt I was on the right path, the studio was running on rails. During the course of the training I became acquainted with new people, and after 11⁄2 years of training it was quite clear to me that I wanted to be a doctor. That's the combination I'm gonna get the most out of. After a year and a half, Mad then contacted the student counsellor at his professional college, who explained that the best that Mads could do according to the Ministry of Education and Research's guidelines was to finish his bachelor's degree in physiotherapy and then apply for medicine. Mads really did his job well. He also contacted the University of Southern Denmark's Student Counselling and the University of Copenhagen Student Counselling, and they said the same thing: The best thing you can do, Mads, is to finish your bachelor's degree in physiotherapy. He even went to Copenhagen, and he went to the University of Southern Denmark for so-called guidance days and was told exactly what to do in order to qualify for a seat via quota 2. He was finished as a physiotherapist, got his bachelor this summer and had planned to apply now for medical education, for now he had the skills needed to apply, as he had been guided to since summer 2013 according to the Ministry's guidelines. Mad writes: I feel that the system has failed me and many others. Denmark as a society wants momentum and development. We do not get that by restricting ourselves to driving the country forward. Give us a year, just a year. At least we know the rules of the game. Then at least we have the opportunity to make choices for our lives and adjust as you would now like. I didn't. I think that's right. I don't think we've given Mad the opportunity. I do not think it is right to introduce this legislation when, as a society and according to the guidelines we adopt politically, we have given him that guidance. He's done everything right. I don't think that's right now that we're adopting this bill. But I would also like to say to all the students, yes, to all the people who are out there, because I have been approached by people of all ages, including the pensioners I was on Mrs Plads yesterday, who told about how they themselves had taken more education and had never got to where they are, without them, and who were worried about the future: we are not giving up. Don't be discouraged. Neither are you young and have the future ahead of you, nor do you who care about your grandchildren. Don't do that, because we're gonna keep fighting, and we're gonna work against this. As we said at Madame Plads yesterday, as we would not all be discouraged: push, push, push to the roof. And we're gonna keep doing that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219112857	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219112902	Thank you. Now we had this debate last week too. I have seen all due respect for the deep involvement of the Radicals in this fight, but one of the things that really puzzles me is that, as we heard a little earlier from Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier from the Alternative, we do not even recognise that the Social Democrats have been involved in this, because it was here that a majority could be found to find funding to save all the benefit recipients whom the Radicals would not help when we sat together with the government. Now I am just asking again the same question I asked last week: does Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen recognise that if we had found a solution then we would not have been in this situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20161219112953	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219112954	I know that it was the then Social Democratic radical government that set up a Daily Money Commission to carry out this particular task. I also know that an allowance agreement was made which states that there must be funding, not how and not where. And I and the Radical Left have voted in favour of it, because we think it is very good that a new allowance agreement has been found on the basis of the Daily Money Commission which we set up in the Radical Left and the Socialists. And that's what we were working on. Would it have been nice if that solution had been found earlier? I think we can only agree on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219113039	Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219113040	But would the radical rapporteur please give me an answer to what I was also trying to ask you about, I think it was Thursday and Friday last week when we last had this discussion: why is it that the radical party leader, Mr. Morten Østergaard, in an interview in Euroman last summer almost glories or proudly declares that the then Prime Minister and the then Finance Minister tried to pressure him to find a cash allowance agreement back in autumn 2014, and I quote again: Then you think it should be a lie. And that's what made it never the new start it could have been. They wanted to test my spine, and the backbone is all you have to stick to in politics, says Morten Østergaard. So we understood this: the agreement that would have prevented us from being in the situation we are facing today was blocked.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219113129	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219113130	Dear sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen: I am sure that the situation we are facing today could have been prevented if the parties to the agreement had been interested in spending a little longer, talking with a little more parties about how we could finance this unemployment benefit, which is now being taken by cutting people off from opportunities for the future, which would precisely enable them to have a job. I'm quite convinced that we could. 15 million kr. we provide for the daily allowances in 2017, by you now set a ceiling on training. It's too lame.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219113209	Then it's mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219113211	The rapporteur made an incredibly passionate speech and I think it is very easy to identify with if it is that you do not know the rapporteur and the political history of the former minister. I would like to ask the former radical Minister of Education how many places of study the radical minister's dimensioning of higher education has closed down. Ergo: How many young people have the radical minister prevented from entering their dream study?
ParlaMint-DK_20161219113241	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219113242	I know, sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt has been passionate about counting the number of seats, and passion must be such a compliment to be recognized for; I would at least like to acknowledge the rapporteur's passion for counting too. There is no doubt that it meant a lot to hundreds of people when, together with the rapporteur's party, we dimensioned it; it was hard at the time, but I understand that the rapporteur's party now appreciates this approach very much. This meant that there were people who could not enter the courses they dreamed of, because there were fewer places in some programmes where there was very, very high unemployment and where there is very high unemployment because, unfortunately, some educational institutions had taken a little too many in over a number of years, more than we could hold to socially, at the expense of students. There is just a very big difference between it and the setting of a ceiling on education, because putting a ceiling on education means telling some people: You can never get in here; no matter how good you are and how hard you try, you will never get in here. For example: Like Mads.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219113352	Thank you. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219113354	I have to save the minister from going through every university. I can only announce that the University of Copenhagen tells us that it is 4,000 seats for the years. I would also like to thank the former Minister for making such sensible substantive arguments for the need for dimensioning, as we agree on. The fact is, however, that when you, like Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, say in the morning at News that you don't know what your children are going to read and train in the future, and if they are going to be retrained again, you give the Danes the wrong impression that this bill prevents people from continuing to train, to train themselves, to take a new education if their education is out of date. And it is just with an appeal to the rapporteur to remember what the draft law contains, rather than in this pathoritarian impotence expressing all the injustices of the world that the draft law does not actually contain. I do not think that is good for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219113443	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219113444	Thank you for the pathetic question put by the rapporteur. I may feel a little out of control now when we have to vote this through, but not in general. I am sure that this will change in the future, because it is not designed for the future. I fully agree that, fortunately, there are some exceptions to this bill which make it possible if your education is outdated, you can't use it anymore or you're sick, and that's good, but there could be many, many more.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219113526	Then it's mr. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219113528	Thank you. The radical rapporteur says that we are getting many e-mails, and I have received that too, but I would say that it has not been close to the number of e-mails we received following the deterioration of the benefit system. And in this way I am sure that we all get a lot of input from the Danish people about what they think is important. There we must each weigh with ourselves what matters. And, of course, there is respect for the choices of the Radical Left. What is, after all, the task of all of us is to balance these different considerations against each other, and that is what we have done in the Social Democrats. And for us, it means quite a lot what the Danish cashier's system looks like. Now the rapporteur says that if the negotiators had spent a little more time, they might have come up with another funding for these improvements in the benefit system. If we now assume that it was prepared negotiators who knew what they were talking about, and we have to assume that everything else just enough and that it was these opportunities that were on the table, would the Radical Left agree to an agreement that improved the benefit system, as we have seen in the legislative proposals that have been presented, and limit double training, as we see in this bill? First Vice-President (Henrik Dam Kristensen) Thank you! ) So, in relation to the package of funding, would the Radical Left back that compromise?
ParlaMint-DK_20161219113640	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219113640-2	After all, we are voting against the proposal to set a ceiling on education, but I am quite sure that we could have found funding for precisely the daily allowance agreement that the Daily Money Commission, which we set up together in the Radical Left and the Social Democratic Party, when we sat in government together last time, made recommendations to • I am quite sure that we could have found funding for it. I also have to say that when I took the floor on the third and last reading of the allowance agreement, the same morning it was included in the comments on how it was to be financed, to the great surprise of all Socialist Members. I am aware that it is guaranteed to be well-prepared negotiators that you send to all negotiations I have great respect for that but I am also sure that if you had spent longer, we could have found another funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219113736	Mattia Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219113737	Well, I have no doubt that the Radical Left could easily have found another funding to improve the benefit system. In fact, I believe that the Socialist Group could have come up with a catalogue of other proposals. I'm sure all members of parliament could. But what a majority in the Folketing could agree on is what is on the table, and that is why it is interesting for me to know: in relation to the compromise that could be found in this Parliament, with the composition of this Parliament, which improves the daily allowance system on the one hand and limits double training on the other hand, the political package, can the Radical Left back on it, or would they rather we neither have reduced double training nor improved the daily allowance system?
ParlaMint-DK_20161219113818	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219113818-2	I am not confident that you have done your very thorough work in finding funding for this agreement, because I would say to Mr. Mattia Tesfaye that you showed up for the third reading of the benefit agreement without knowing it was financed in this way. It was very clear. And that is why, I am sure, we could have spent longer and found funding, including by a majority, in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219113848	Then it's Mrs. Mette Reissmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219113850	Thank you. Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen is very concerned about the future on behalf of the Radical Left. I can then just inform the rapporteur that it is certainly Social Democracy too. Social democracy is very concerned about a future in which everyone is involved and where, among other things, we are concerned. works to ensure both growth and welfare, so that we can have a secure Denmark. And that also means in relation to people who have been put in a situation where, unfortunately, one has had to face the fact that one has gone out of the benefit system because some politicians, including the Radical Left, have made some political decisions that have clearly sent one and one's family's security in the wrong direction that we are trying to rectify that now. I would say that we in the Social Democratic Party are in fact further interested in growth and welfare in the future, and that is why we have also set aside a very large billion euros in our vision paper 'Trust in Denmark' to increase competence for all those who had not already joined the training car. I would like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that the number mentioned by the rapporteur on several occasions by the specific legislative proposal is substantially less than 2 000 people.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219114006	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219114007	But was it 1 500 that the Social Democrat own rapporteur yesterday thought would be affected? I have not used any specific figures other than the 2,000 that stand to fall out, and then there are some roads around, and then there are 1,500 that are affected. I am pleased that the Social Democratic Party is concerned about the future and is also concerned that more people are going to work as well as in education. That is why it is completely incomprehensible to me that the Social Democratic Party will help to limit education, something which can now lead to people who may even be on unemployment benefits or unemployed people not being able to enter the education they want or who have to go for five years waiting to be ready and not being allowed to use their education, and if they do so, they cannot take a new education that he or she is dreaming of. That's not meaningful either.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219114109	Mette Reissmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219114111	I would just like to inform the rapporteur that in the specific legislative proposal, the continuing training is excluded, so that the scare-mongering image of the Radicals, among other things. Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen on the front has tried to conjure up here over the last few weeks is simply not correct. That is why it is just important for me to bring out some more facts, including in this final debate, that there are so many, I should almost say, of derogations which, unfortunately, have not yet been specifically and objectively clarified (First Vice-President (Henrik Dam Kristensen) Thank you! ) because the Radicals have waged a scaremongering campaign.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219114153	Thank you! Then it is the rapporteur to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219114154	There will be no scaremongering from here, because what this ceiling is all about is that we are going in the wrong direction and that for the first time ever we say to people: Even though you are doing everything you can, even if you are doing what we have guided you to, and what the educational institutions with the Ministry of Education and Research's own announcements have guided you to, you cannot go that way; it is over here, and it was just too bad. This is going to happen to some people, and it is brand new that we are going down that road in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219114232	We thank Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen and go further in the rapporteur's line to Mr Sofie Carsten Nielsen. Jacob Mark, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219114238	Thank you. I shall make it a little shorter than I did at the other legal proceedings, because a lot has been said about this bill. But I will start by saying something that I learned early on it is some Chinese who have said it, I have been told and which I think is right in this context, namely that no matter how far one has gone down a bad road, it is never too late to turn back. And I think that is actually my primary message today. Normally I have a lot of respect for the people's rule, and I do today, and I think that you can have differences across, but no matter where you are from and what you fight for, you basically fight to make Denmark better for future generations, and then you can wear different ideological glasses. I have tried to think about how to think in any way possible, regardless of which party you are from, that this makes Denmark better for future generations. I have been in and investigate it is not the case that I'm going to list it up how many parliamentary politicians there themselves have two degree programmes, how many parliamentary politicians themselves took advantage of the opportunity to become smarter because you wanted to change track in life, and that is quite a lot. It is also quite a number of those who will vote in favour of setting a ceiling on the number of courses to be taken. I would like to ask those politicians who have themselves taken a double education and who are now abolishing that possibility: what is it that is now going to deprive future generations of the right they have themselves exercised and which has been really important? I don't understand. I think you should use this platform to create a Denmark that will be better tomorrow than it was yesterday. Then I would say that I was at a demonstration yesterday. It is not such a thing for a SF, and I wish that Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt came with me a little more often when a speaker said she was quite amazed because she had come to the realization that the biggest mistake she had made in her life had proved to be that she had finished her education, and she did not understand that. But she had been guided to finish her education, of course, because she had a few months left of it, and now, because she feels that she belongs somewhere else, because there is something else she wants to read, and some other places she wants to use her skills, her options are locked. I do not think it should be the case that it should be a mistake to complete an education; that is not the point of education. Try to think about what this is going to do about our education system. Try to think about what this is going to do with young people who are in the education system in the future. When you start an education, you're never really sure if that's what you're gonna spend the rest of your life on that we all know that; I'm young myself; some have children, some have grandchildren. You are never really sure, but so far it has been the case that you thought that everything would work out, because if you had chosen wrong, you could always choose to change. I think this is going to mean that there will be so many more young people out there in the educational institutions who are going to be constantly wondering whether this is the right way for them, and I also think that more people are going to drop out. There have been several demonstrations; there have been people who have sat out in front of the Castle for 24 hours for 6 minus degrees; hundreds of mails have been sent to all of us; a petition has been made that has received 80,000 signatures. And so far it has not been enough. But now I want to ask the government, the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party whether it was not time to turn around on the bad road and vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219114650	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219114653	That's incredibly gallant of Mr. Knox. Jacob Mark to choose such to invite me to demonstrations and to plead that he would want me to go with something more often. The thing is, however, that I had the pleasure of inviting part of the young people who sat out in front of Christiansborg the other day for a longer chat and a hot cup of coffee, because I also discovered that they were sitting outside in minus degrees. Unlike Mr. Jacob Mark I just don't necessarily have the habit of taking a picture and calling the media every time I participate in a manifestation on public street. It may be that we are a little different in this respect. Now, sir. Jacob Mark saw and makes himself a moral judge of what to use Parliament's platform for, and everyone is free to do so. I respect sir. Jacob Mark's views and views and, in general, Mr. Jacob Mark is an excellent politician. That's why I'm gonna ask Mr. Jacob Mark, whether he will honestly tell the Danish Parliament and all those who are watching today whether it was a mistake that during the last period as a government party, the SF helped to scale our educations. Was it a mistake that the SF helped make an SU reform?
ParlaMint-DK_20161219114753	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219114755	First of all, I do not think that I am using the student demonstrations as a media stunt. On the contrary, I am also happy to take part in the crazy legislative proposals that are being made in the field of education at the moment. And I have a lot of respect for when the educational rapporteur for the Left invites the young people for a cup of coffee. In relation to the dimensioning, I think that the dimensioning that took place in the last period, i.e. that the course that was around it could have been made smarter. And I think it is crucial for the parties right now to sit down after New Year and find a new and smarter dimensioning model. But I have heard the rapporteur say this in saying that it is the same thing as setting a ceiling on education. But basically, I do not think so. Here we are talking about locking some young people in a position where they say: Now you've taken one education, and then you can't take any more. But dimensioning basically means that you can still take courses, but that there is a protection against education leading to unemployment, which is why you take a smaller number of places of them. I know that the rapporteur has an interest in trying to create some logic where it should be the same, but it is not the same, and I think the rapporteur knows that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219114901	Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219114902	In other words, without having to interpret too much, I think it is reasonable to point out that Mr. Jacob Mark's party has voted in favour of legislation that significantly reduces the number of study places and thus prevents young students from taking the education they most want, so that they have to take another education that they have the opportunity to enter. I think that's relevant knowledge. Then I also find it a pity that Mr. Jacob Mark spends so much time on the platform without mentioning the many opportunities that exist for both further training and further training. If you haven't used your education for a while, you can get a new one. If you have mental, physical problems, you can have a new one. If there is a shortage of labour, you can get a new one. On the whole, I think it is problematic to talk about being trapped in an education. After all, we have to assume that people are applying for education because they want that knowledge and not because they have to be trapped in a system.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219114945	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219114947	In fact, I have seen that education has come to me as rapporteur and has said: we want to be scaled, because right now there are so many people being trained that it pushes our salaries when we get out on the other side. That's why we have dimensions. On the other hand, I have not heard any students ask to be cut off the opportunity to choose if they have found out that they have chosen the wrong lead in life. So I think it's two basically completely different things. I would just like to say: yes, there is a possibility that that is also what we discussed at second reading in order to continue training, and I think that is a good thing. You just have to remember that the vast majority of opportunities for it require user fees, and not all people can afford to pay for an education. That's what I'm worried about.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219115025	Thank you, sir. Jacob Mark. I need to know if anyone else wants to speak. As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219115035	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 79 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The proposal has been adopted and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219115111	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219115129	The final adoption of the draft law is being voted on and can now be voted on. The vote will end. In favour 77 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The proposal has been adopted and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219115154	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219115212	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 83 (S, DF, V, LA, SF and KF) voted against 20 (EL, ALT and RV), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219115237	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219115257	The vote will end. In favour of 102 votes (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219115320	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219115342	Thank you. Last year we got a new framework for the way we should look at our world; we got both the UN's new world goals and we got the Paris Agreement. According to the Paris Agreement, we really must move on to our climate action; we must have much more renewable energy. That is why I have been very pleased with what I regularly call the Robin Hood scheme, as this PSO scheme, which is being abolished today, can be called because it is doing exactly what I think is really wise. It introduces a really good mechanism that's about taking money from what we don't want, and moving them over to what we want to have 1:1 so that we get a mechanism that moves us in the right direction. That is why I am very sorry that today we are abolishing this way of financing the green conversion. It is a really bad idea to abolish that way, and it has a number of problems. First of all, it gives rise to an increased CO2 t says the Climate Council, and that is a major problem. One might then say that there are also some other things that seem to be some real trouble. One is that there are several researchers who have questioned what is being replaced. The way in which it will be financed in the future, the green transition, the conversion of renewable energy sources, is to find the money for the purpose by annual negotiations under the Finance Act. Apart from the fact that this is a hassle and that it provides an uncertain framework for the green transition, it may in fact also be a scheme that is at odds with the state aid rules in the European Union. A number of people have asked questions about this, and we have to dive into it. Furthermore, we have recently heard that the EU winter package, which contains a lot of energy measures, contains precisely the model that could be used instead, namely the model that is about adjusting the PSP scheme so that we can offer each other's renewable energy projects across borders within the European Union. That is to say, we could be at the forefront of what may still come after 2021. Finally, I would like to say that perhaps some of what has made it an extra problematic matter that this whole discussion about the PSO has been conducted with a consistent exaggeration of the PSO problem. It has been spoken as contrary to the Treaty, it has been spoken as a bottom-up task of abolishing the system, but it is not. It is a bottom-up task to have it adjusted so that it will work, and there are at least three, four ways to do it, and one of them seems to be something we get anyway around 2021, 2022, if it is for the winter package. That is why I would just like to appeal to the House to reconsider its position on this matter. I think it is a fantastic scheme that we have to finance the green conversion, and I think we should reconsider this before voting against this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219115707	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Søren Søndergaard. Søren Søndergaard It is a mistake). There wasn't. Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. Do more people want to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219115720	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 88 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF) voted against 15 (EL and ALT), [no votes for or against 0]. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219115744	Then we should deal with item 16 of the agenda, bill No. L 91, but we will postpone the third reading at the request of the Ministry. It will be dealt with as the last item on today's agenda. That is why we now move on to paragraph 17.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219115756	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the examination of the amendments has been concluded and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219115821	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1 adopted by the Minister for Education. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219115830	The debate is now about the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the bill itself? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219115839	A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 88 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), against 14 (EL and ALT), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219115903	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219115928	The final adoption of the draft law is being voted on and can now be voted on. The vote will end. In favour of 87 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), against 15 (EL and ALT), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219115957	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219120016	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 103 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219120041	The debate is primarily about the proposed amendment. Does anyone wish to speak? Yes, sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219120102	We have here a legislative proposal which has been sent back to committee, and we have tabled an amendment from the Radical Left and the Social Democrats, and I would like to explain this briefly. The draft law states: Harmonization to the SU level. It was also to say that the performance of production school pupils must be harmonised to the SU level. But we have found in committee that, to put it mildly, it cannot be called. Students do not have the opportunity to receive allowances if they are disabled, as they do if they are at SU; they do not have the opportunity to get an extra allowance, as they have the opportunity to get a double pass if they are at SU and have children; they do not have the same opportunities to take a leisure job; they do not have the same opportunities to take out a loan; and they are paid out if they do not show up at the school; they do not seem to do so either if you are at SU. We also knew all this when we were second-reading the bill. What is new, then, is that we have found that the rate to be applied to production school pupils in the future does not correspond to the SU level, and thus all the argument that this is harmonisation to the SU level has collapsed. It is the case that resident SU recipients receive a benefit determined according to their parents' income: the more they earn, the less their children receive in SU. This is because many young people pay to live at home when the children's money stops and the SU starts, and it is especially young people in families who do not have so much money. That is why it is also a problem that the benefit we now have to adopt will be determined according to a legislative proposal based on the fact that the parents of the production school pupils earn relatively much, because they do not, and in fact the rate has been set almost 600 DKK. Too low. So it is almost 600 kroner that is pulled out of the budget in some of the poorest families in Denmark. That is what we are trying to correct here with our amendments, so that the rate is fixed according to what they would have got at the SU if they had been at the SU. It is not because we support harmonisation to the SU level. That's just because if that's gonna happen, it can at least happen on the basis of some sobre numbers.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219120307	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Then I give the floor to Mrs Lotte Rod as rapporteur on the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219120316	Thank you. Is 583 kr. a month a lot of money? Yes, it is if you are young and live at home in one of the families that has little money and you have to pay rent and if you have to pay food at your school. No, the government thinks it doesn't matter. After all, the bill we are discussing here is that you want the production school service to be at an SU-like level. We've known all along, as sir. Mattias Tesfaye also mentioned that this has nothing to do with SU, for young people at a production school work. They have a full-time week where they can't just take leisure jobs next door, they can't get supplements, and they can't just take an SU loan either. Now it has also come out in black and white that the government has missed out on the amount itself. Actually, the government hits 38%. Next door. In other words, if the production school pupils were actually to have the same thing as they would get at the SU, they would have to have 38%. More than what the government is up to. I do not know if it would be possible to imagine the same thing in the Treasury, namely that the tax minister had just calculated 38%. Wrong as to what to pay in taxes. Would we then also stand here in the Folketing and be told: Well, yes, but it's just a similar level? We then asked at the conciliation meeting last Friday whether it was a mistake, because then perhaps we could agree to rectify it together, and to that the government replied: it is not a mistake; it is a political decision that we have chosen to set the level lower than what the students would have got if they had been at the SU. If we do not vote in favour of the amendment in a moment and thus actually give the pupils of the production schools the same thing that they would get if they were in the SU, then I have to say that all the arguments for this bill fall to the ground. It's called production school service at an SU-like level, but you set the level significantly lower. So if you don't vote for it in a little while, there's no point in this bill... except that you just want to make a big saving in the production school area. We are against this in the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219120559	There is a brief comment from Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219120602	One of the things we have been discussing in recent weeks about this is perhaps just the word 'harmonization'. Could the Radical Left's rapporteur not confirm that the very point of departure, for example, is that: In the SU, using the SU as a pointer, has actually been used in the past, even when the Red Government was in power?
ParlaMint-DK_20161219120632	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219120633	That is also why I am trying to help the government in this, because the government says that they want to put it to an SU-like level, but that is not what they do at all. So, you deliberately choose, as the minister said, you have made a political decision to say that you will give the students much less than they would get if they were at the SU. That is why we have tabled this amendment by the Social Democrats and the Radical Left, which at least gives the pupils what they would get if they were at the SU, even though we are actually totally opposed, because we think it is a wrong place to save. In a few weeks' time, in other words, we will have an analysis of the whole area of education for all informal education, where we will have to look at the context, and for me it makes no sense that the government chooses to make a saving here and now instead of waiting for recommendations.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219120736	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219120737	Well, that's how it was, among other things. also when Mette Frederiksen was Minister for Employment that the SU was used as a pointer in harmonising the cash benefits themselves and the training allowance. Then it was adjusted according to the SU level. So it is nothing new that you can start from the SU level and adjust things. I have to say once again that I do not understand why this proposal is being ignored in this way, because I have to say that adjustments are actually being made to ensure that these young people can also move on, for example. training without then falling to the level.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219120825	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219120826	We disagree because in the Radical Left we do not think it is the right place to save money. We are opposed to cutting production school fees a few weeks before there is actually a report that has looked at the whole area. When I am so critical today and when we choose to table amendments here for the third reading, it is of course because the draft law completely falls apart. The Left says that one wants to harmonise to an SU-like level, but one deliberately chooses to give the students significantly less than they would get if they were at SU.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219120904	The next question is Mr. Bjarne Laustsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219120907	Thank you, President. I have to use this tactic, because it does not seem that Mrs Anni Matthiesen, as rapporteur for the Left, will go up and defend the colours of the Parliament's platform, and that is why I have to ask the radical rapporteur whether it is not true that already in 2003 we had an agreement that was absolutely clear in relation to the working party. For then there was also a desire to harmonise it, but it rejected the conciliation circle, and a very broad agreement was reached that there should be a production school service, because going to production school is precisely a job where there are also some good educational tools that make it possible, if you do not show up and do your job, etc., to pay your salary. At first reading, I asked Mrs Anni Matthiesen about this, and I would like the rapporteur to confirm what difference there is between an SU student and a production school pupil, and the only thing she could come up with was that they could be of the same age. I think that was a bit sluggish, and that is why, of course, I would like the rapporteur to outline what difference there is between being a production school student and being a student, for example. a high school.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219121008	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219121009	That is absolutely correct. In fact, we saw that we had an agreement that we cannot just break, and that is why I think it is strange that the Left is using the Finance Act to just shave down compared to some of the vulnerable young people instead of waiting for the report that will be coming shortly. Because it is true that there is a significant difference between going to production school and going to high school and getting SU. There's, for example, there's... The difference is that when you go to production school, you work. You have a full week of work and therefore cannot just take a leisure job next door. You can't get supplements, and you can't, which the government cares a lot about, just take a SU loan.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219121052	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219121053	Thank you for your answer. After all, I have given you the papers that we negotiated in 2003 where there is a clear agreement on how that benefit should be cut compared to being at a production school. Have you found out in the work that has now been done on the Education Committee why it is that the government wants to break this compromise when it has so clearly stated in 2003 that there is a difference between being a student and being at a production school? Has any reasonable explanation been given as to why it is that you want to make such a clear promise in this matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20161219121132	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219121134	The only answer we have been able to get from the government is that it is reasonable to reduce the contribution to the production school pupils. And that is why I would just like to regret once again that the government chooses to take this money in connection with the Finance Act, instead of waiting for the big analysis that is under way, and then take this overall discussion in the spring.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219121158	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. The next person to take the platform is Mr. Jacob Mark as rapporteur for the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219121206	Thank you. I have taken the floor because I believe that this bill is political language of the worst disappointment. If you look at what the subtitle of the bill is, you can see that it is the harmonization of the school allowance to an SU-like level, so let us just sort of get to it and grab the two points. The first is that we cannot really talk about the harmonisation of a school allowance and an SU when we are talking about two completely different education courses. Last Friday most parties in here had Christmas lunches, and so did SF. We had the food for the Christmas party delivered by the production school from Køge, Klemmenstrupgård, and there were also students, because in one of the school's workshops there is a kitchen. The students at the production school go to work as they go to school. They cook, they answer for the things to be sold, and they deliver a great job. At the same school there is also a nursery, a blacksmith and a carpenter's workshop. They supply some products and they have a real job. They are not like the other education programmes, and not enough: they help to raise some of the young people who are having a difficult time in life and who have not had it easy on their educational path so that they can get a qualification. Furthermore, the production schools also provide a lot of skills. The second part is that it is simply political language, so to speak, that the school allowance and the SU are now being harmonised, and that is not even being done. As a production school student, you do not get the same opportunities to take a loan; you do not get the same opportunities to receive supplements; you do not get the same discounts on transport; and even when it comes to the amount, you do not get the same. That is quite clear today, and that is why it is so important to vote in favour of the amendment. Because if we really want to talk about harmonizing without just being empty words, we must at least give production school pupils the same amount as they have in the remaining youth education programmes. Then I just want to say to this thing about the amount, and whether it matters with these a little more than 500 kr.: The production school pupils pay for the work clothes, many of the production school pupils pay for their food in the schools, and many of them say when you ask them that they also contribute to the home, so that means the world to them. That is why I can still become something that is crazy about the statement made by the rapporteur for education by the Left when they asked how they are going to make this happen in the production schools and how they are going to be able to afford this with these significant savings on their livelihoods: yes, they can take a bank loan. But you can't just do that. Not everyone can just take a bank loan. And is that really where we are going, that is, that some of the most vulnerable young people just have to take a bank loan to get by? No, so let us vote in favour of this amendment, so that production school pupils at least receive the same amount as other students in upper secondary education.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219121520	There is a brief comment from Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219121523	I would really like the SF's rapporteur to answer yes or no to whether the young people who go on a combined youth education are doing a real job.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219121538	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219121539	Yeah, I think they do.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219121543	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219121546	It is because there has been a discussion where it has always been said that the young people who attend a production school are doing a real job. I think there are many of our young people who are doing a real job, and therefore I simply cannot understand why we would like to say in this way that young people who are in a production school should be paid because they are doing a real job. Does the SF rapporteur not agree with me that one might ask why there should then be a difference between the benefit you receive if you go on a combined youth education and the benefit you receive if you go to a production school? I would really like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219121624	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219121624-2	First of all, our starting point is not to reduce benefits, but if what Mrs Anni Matthiesen is asking is whether we should discuss whether we can increase benefits so that young people have something to live on, then I would very much like to discuss it. But yes, I do believe that when you go to production schools where there are horticulture, there are smiths, there are carpenters, there are catering companies that have some specific tasks where they have to deliver on time, you have to say that it is a job. This is also why they are subject to the regulations of the Danish Labour Inspectorate. Well, it's...
ParlaMint-DK_20161219121656	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Do more people want to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendment is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219121707	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (S and RV), joined by a minority (ALT, EL and SF), and voting is possible. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of voting 50 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 51 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219121810	The debate is now about the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the bill? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219121820	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. In favour of 52 (DF, V, LA and KF) votes against 50 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219121853	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219121905	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is closed. In favour 103 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF, against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219121938	No amendments have been tabled Would anyone like to make a statement? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219121952	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. I shall conclude the vote. In favour 103 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219122021	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219122034	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is closed. In favour of 88 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), against 14 (EL and ALT), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219122107	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219122117	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is closed. In favour 103 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219122145	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219122156	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is closed. In favour 103 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219122224	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219122236	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is closed. In favour, 78 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219122310	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219122322	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is closed. In favour of 79 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219122352	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219122406	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. In favour of 79 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219122432	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219122445	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is closed. In favour 103 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219122515	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219122539	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is closed. In favour 94 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstentions 9 (EL). The draft parliamentary resolution has been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219122614	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is precisely what Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen of the Enhedslisten, as rapporteur for the questioners, wants to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219122627	Thank you. I have to say that I think it is infinitely sad that a majority in the Folketing chooses to stop accepting quota refugees at a time when the world urgently needs quota refugees to be taken. It is estimated that between 60 million and 65 million people are forced to flee. For many, many years, Denmark has been one of the countries which has actually accepted quota refugees: 500 per year, and right now, where there is therefore a great need for many countries to shoulder their responsibilities, Denmark says stop. One of the things that I find particularly incomprehensible is that we hear from both the right and the Social Democrats time and again that the asylum system is unfair; that it is unfair that those who have a house that they can sell and who therefore have the opportunity to pay a human smuggler can come to, for example. Denmark; that it is unfair that those who have a physics that makes them have a little more chance of surviving when they get into a dinghy with a high risk of sinking can come to Denmark. A large number of injustices are being pointed out in the asylum system, and I agree with those injustices. It is deeply unfair that those people who find some money in some way so that they can pay some people smugglers have more opportunity to come under protection and have their children protected than those who, for example, have to be protected. don't have a house that they can sell. That is precisely what the quota refugee scheme is doing. The quota refugee scheme is precisely that it is the UNHCR, the UN refugee organisation, that says: we are coming for you, and it is not only you who can afford to pay people smugglers. Then a great deal has been said by both the right and the Socialists that we must help in the neighbourhood. I agree, not least because the vast majority of the world's refugees live in the vicinity. It is either as internally displaced persons in countries with war or in neighbouring countries, for example. in Jordan. In fact, an absolutely crucial way of helping in the outlying areas is by accepting quota refugees. The fact that Denmark and other countries provide protection for those who are particularly vulnerable, for example. Jordan, is releasing resources to enable them to provide protection in Jordan or in other countries around Syria to the millions of people who are staying there. In other words, if you want to do something about the totally unfair and criminal trafficking of human beings, if you want to do something about the fact that it is unfair and unfair for men, for example, to do something about it. have a greater chance of surviving the flight without being subjected to completely insane sexual abuse and that children have less chance of surviving in the cold water of the Mediterranean, if you want to do something about the injustices, and if you want to remedy the surrounding areas, you have to accept quota refugees. Then there are some who say that Denmark has no room for them. But of course we have room for 500 people every year. Denmark does not break because we continue to do what we have done for decades, namely provide protection to 500 quota refugees a year. Then there are also some who say: Well there are so many, so it doesn't matter. But it doesn't matter to the people who are elected. Imagine if other countries choose to be inspired by Denmark, imagine if other countries say that if Denmark does not bother, then they do not want to: then everything will fall apart. Fortunately, I have not actually heard of a single country which, in the midst of a world-historical refugee crisis, has chosen to say that they stop taking quota refugees. On the contrary, many others have chosen to raise the quota. Common solutions are being shouted for. It is said that Denmark cannot solve the refugee crisis alone. Yeah, that goes without saying. I totally agree with that. But a common solution is precisely the United Nations quota refugee system. People say that we must then find a way to distribute the refugees among the countries of the world. Well, that's what the United Nations quota system does. I think it is completely, completely incomprehensible and irresponsible that a majority in the Folketing, unfortunately with the support of the Social Democrats, should choose to make this decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219123125	There are a few brief comments. The first question is Mr. Dan Jørgensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219123129	Thank you. I have noticed that the rapporteur, when she has spoken recently about this proposal and other proposals, has actually spoken more about social democracy than the rapporteur's own policy. We in my party do not believe that the quota refugee scheme is a bad idea, on the contrary. We really wish we could all take it now is the case that we get so many spontaneous asylum seekers in these years that we have to do something to keep up with the number that is coming in order to be able to have proper integration in this country in order to ensure the cohesion of our country. But could the rapporteur not say because the rapporteur has sometimes explained that the rapporteur's party actually believes that the number means something? provide just one example of something that the rapporteur proposes one could do to limit the number of refugees coming to Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20161219123220	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219123221	I can promise you that. I'm gonna do one of those things. I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, which is a very good one, and I would like to thank him for his excellent work and for the work he has done. I would say that if you think it is a difficult task in Denmark, then you should try to be in Jordan or Lebanon or Syria for that matter. I'm gonna do one of those things. I would like to focus on the United Nations quota refugee system, which is helping in the immediate areas we are all talking so much about. We know, of course, that during the period in which, for example, we have to deal with this problem. The refugees in the great Zaatari camp in Jordan and the many people who do not live in camps had their rations reduced, food support to survive, people began fleeing. They wanted to be there, but they began fleeing towards Europe because the world community was unable to provide them with the protection they needed locally. So what will I do to ensure that fewer people flee all the way to Denmark, which I actually do not think anyone has an interest in? I'm gonna do one of those things. strengthen the neighbouring regions, not least through the United Nations quota refugee system.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219123332	The rapporteur should remember to mention the questioner in the third person. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219123336	Many of the things the rapporteur says there are, of course, agreed on. We would also rather have a better and well-functioning international system. But what is just a little interesting is what kind of policy we can pursue now that works now. It is right now that there are a great many refugees coming to Denmark that we need to take care of and which we need to integrate. This is not something that we can wait to deal with in 10 years or 15 years or 20 years, or maybe never when we have an international system that works in the way the rapporteur proposes. That is why the answer goes on to say that we need to take more now, because then it may be that we may later get fewer people who I understand the rapporteur does not think. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur: what is the rapporteur's party to do now or just within the next two to three years, which will have an impact on the number in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20161219123426	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219123427	I'd like to say to Mr. Dan Jørgensen, that I do not believe that Denmark breaks by accepting 500 quota refugees annually. Right now, the number of refugees who come to Denmark has fallen markedly • it has decreased significantly. Nevertheless, a whole bunch of Socialists are about to press the red button and vote against our proposal, which says: of course, we should not follow the right-wing proposal to suspend the quota refugee regime. I recognize the picture that of course it is not easy to accept refugees, among other things. because many people come with severe trauma in their luggage, but also because many come from countries that are very different from Denmark, and because we have to provide housing and undertake the huge integration task that it is. I do not think that Denmark is in a situation where we have to say: we are now going to stop fulfilling the historic responsibility we have taken, namely to take 500 quota refugees a year.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219123527	Thank you! Those are short remarks and brief answers! The next question is Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219123534	I think that was a very interesting answer from Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen to Mr Kellett-Bowman. Dan Jørgensen. Sir. Dan Jørgensen asked: What will Enhedslisten do to limit the number of refugees coming to Denmark in order that there may be some limit to how many we are able to integrate and receive properly in Denmark? Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen's reply was that, in order to limit the number of refugees coming to Denmark, we will welcome more quota refugees. It was simply the best answer from Enhedslisten. I think it is very symptomatic of the Enhedslisten, which in principle recognises that there is a limit to how many refugees we can receive in Denmark, but will never tell us how to ensure that there are fewer refugees coming to Denmark, and will never tell us how many refugees Enhedslisten thinks Denmark should receive this year. Enhedslisten votes against all tightenings, criticizes all tightening down under the floorboards, often speaking on the platform, but has no solutions even at all. Can Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen mention some measures which will limit the number of refugees coming to Denmark, or can Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen tell us how many refugees should come to Denmark this year?
ParlaMint-DK_20161219123640	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219123641	At the moment, we are not even talking about raising the quota. That would make sense to me. I would think it was a wise response to a world-historical refugee crisis. I do not know whether the rapporteur has seen the pictures from Aleppo. I have. I would think it was a wise response to raise the quota, also in order to send a signal to the rest of the world that now we really need to make a joint effort. But that is not what we are discussing at all. We are discussing the proposal of the government which Mr. Rasmus Jarlov's party is now part of giving up totally accepting quota refugees. I think that is the wrong answer to the crisis in Syria. And I actually believe that the way in which we ensure that fewer people are forced to flee all the way to, for example. Denmark in, is strengthening the neighbourhoods. There is a lot of talk about this, very little is being done. And one way to act is actually to take quota refugees.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219123742	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219123743	I ask again because there were no answers at all to the two questions I asked. The first question is: Does the Enhedslisten have any suggestions as to how we can ensure that there are fewer refugees coming to Denmark that are realisable and not just that you have to negotiate in some international organisations where we do not know what will happen next, some measures that can limit the number of refugees coming to Denmark? Does the Enhedslisten have any suggestions at all? And does Enhedslisten have an answer to how many refugees Denmark should have taken this year, because the Enhedslisten obviously wants more refugees, but how many? I think that Enhedslisten must have a bid for a refugee policy instead of always having only criticism.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219123822	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219123823	I think the questioner has been in Parliament for so long that the questioner knows very well that although the questioner disagrees with what I am saying, it is not because I am not answering. I really believe that the way in which we ensure that fewer people are forced to flee is through massive support in the neighbourhoods, and one way of supporting and relieving the surrounding areas is to accept quota refugees. In addition, I do not think it is strange or wrong that more refugees should come to Denmark in a situation of 60-65 million. Humans are forced to flee. And you know what? Rasmus Jarlov what? I believe that Denmark is strong enough to carry out that task.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219123908	The rapporteur must be commended for correcting his indictment. The next question is Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219123915	I think sir... Rasmus Jarlov and Mr. Dan Jørgensen just has to say that they can as well throw the towel in the ring first as last because there is no answer from Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen. The view of the Enhedslisten is that there should be no limit. You just aren't willing to tell me that in this Chamber. But I would like to try to get an answer from Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen on how many borders to safe countries one must be able to pass to Denmark before one is no longer a refugee in the optics of Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen. Is it 1 border, 5 borders, 27 borders. Or is there in Enhedslisten's optics simply free choice on all shelves, and if you can just say that at some point you have been persecuted somewhere in the world, then you are welcome to come to Denmark, whether you have to cross 37 borders along the way?
ParlaMint-DK_20161219124008	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219124009	Let me start with this with the number. I believe that now that the Liberal Alliance has entered government, the only party left at Christiansborg will actually come up with a figure, well the Danish People's Party. I believe that all other parties at Christiansborg are now saying that we must comply with the UN Convention on Refugees, and if we comply with the UN Convention on Refugees, we are giving protection to people who are on Danish soil if they are entitled to protection, that is, if there is a risk that they will be killed when they are sent back. I think that makes sense. Why was it now that we got the UN Refugee Convention? We did that with World War II as a backdrop. We did so because we saw what happened when the countries failed to fulfil their responsibilities. We saw what happened when refugees went from border to border and were rejected. The world community looked itself in the eye and said: "Never again! Never again will we see that people in the world are treated that way. So if there's any time, I'd like to say to Mr. Knox. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, where we need to keep to and hold to the ideas contained in our refugee convention, is it now that, unfortunately, we are again seeing that historically many people are forced to flee?
ParlaMint-DK_20161219124127	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219124128	It was then again total absence of answers. It may be that it is very funny for Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen to stand on the speaking chair of the Danish Parliament and just to give one pronunciation after another, but it is not fun for us who really want answers. How many limits do you have to cross? I should also like to draw the attention of Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen to the fact that an emergency brake has been adopted. As part of the Finance Law Agreement, an emergency brake has been adopted. So the fact that there are no other parties at Christiansborg that have a limit is not true. The only party here at Christiansborg who, apart from Enhedslisten, has not wanted to tell us what that border is about is the alternative. Can we not get an answer from Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen?
ParlaMint-DK_20161219124212	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219124213	As far as I know, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth but I can at least learn more from the Left, Social Democrats, Conservatives, Liberal Alliance and SF continue to say that they want to comply with the UN Refugee Convention, and fortunately for that. Then something good came from the fact that the Liberal Alliance came into government. Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth says that I think it's fun to stand here on the platform. I can promise the rapporteur that I do not think it is funny that so many people are forced to flee. Nor do I think it is funny that the way in which Denmark chooses to react is to abandon, suspend the regime that has been in place for decades, namely that 500 quota refugees are being taken a year. I don't think that's a lot, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth. I believe that Denmark is strong enough to carry out that task. As far as the borders are concerned, as long as we do not cooperate, people will necessarily go from one country to another, and that speaks for cooperation through, for example. The United Nations quota refugee system.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219124317	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen as rapporteur for the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219124326	Thank you. I would also like to take the floor because we are now going to vote on whether we should resume Denmark's commitment through the United Nations to receive 500 quota refugees a year. We in the Radical Left believe that we should. We therefore believe that it is a duty for Denmark to take on the task of relieving the surrounding areas and taking part in international cooperation, the international commitments we have entered into at the United Nations, because that is exactly what so many countries around the world are turning their backs on right now. And that is also the signal that the government and the majority here send out when we no longer want to take on the minimum obligation, that is, to take 500 quota refugees a year. Then you say to the whole international community, to partners all over the world: you do not have to take responsibility either. We do not want to lift our international commitment in Denmark, nor do you need to. When you do that, you cannot justify saying that we must support in the neighbourhood and that the most important thing is that refugees can stay there. Because that's what we all agree on. But if you do not want to lift the minimum obligation, you have to stop arguing, because they will not stop. Then it is a mask fall to say that the aid must take place in the vicinity. For the basic UN commitment we have is to relieve the neighbourhoods with minimal help. Right now there will be thousands and thousands of more refugees in the neighbouring areas, for example. is at Syria. We can see that in front of us at the moment. And we continue to say: No, it is not our duty to participate in international cooperation. We are very sorry about this in the Radical Left, and that is why, of course, we are voting in favour of this motion for a resolution that Denmark should take on the minimum commitment that we entered into with the refugee convention after the Second World War and this quota system that we have in the United Nations and which, fortunately, many countries are sticking to, but for which we are now sending a signal that there is no need to lift responsibility. We're really sorry about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219124614	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Marcus Knuth, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219124617	Thank you very much. Does the rapporteur think that the number of refugees in Denmark has some kind of impact on how well we can carry out our integration process? And if so, does the rapporteur think that taking 500 extra would be beneficial for integration or damage integration?
ParlaMint-DK_20161219124636	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219124637	I believe, as I believe, that everyone else in this Parliament does, that it matters how many we can integrate and that it makes a big difference what is brought about by background and knowledge in relation to integration. That is why we should also use all our powers to integrate from day one instead of waiting. It would be of benefit to us. I do not believe that the 500 quota refugees are what make the difference here in Denmark. I believe that what makes the difference is the international cooperation we are engaged in, because that is the only thing that can mean that we can control the distribution of refugees and the flow of refugees in Europe, among other things. At the external borders, and it is international cooperation that we are also turning our backs on quota refugees by saying no to quota refugees.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219124725	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219124726	I think that was a rather turbulent answer. The rapporteur says that, yes, the number means something to integration, but that 500 more does not matter. In view of the very, very high number of refugees we have taken, particularly in the last two years, will 500 additional quota refugees be beneficial for integration?
ParlaMint-DK_20161219124745	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219124746	I think we can accept that commitment, and I think it has far greater harm for Denmark, for the world and therefore for integration in Denmark, if we do not take on our international obligations, because in this way we will say to other countries: you do not have to do that either. Then the flow of refugees will continue to be uncontrolled, no one will take responsibility for the cooperation, and the cooperation is exactly what Denmark is turning its back on now. That's the dumbest thing we can do.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219124814	The next question is Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219124817	I feel the same way when I hear the refugee policy of the Radicals, as when I hear the Enhedslisten, that is, there are plenty of criticisms of austerity, and the Radicals are against them all. But what are the proposals of the Radicals for a refugee policy? How many refugees should we have received in Denmark this year if it were for the Radicals? The Radicals admit that the number means something, but then you have to be able to answer how many we have to accept in Denmark in total in the situation we are in now. And this is never heard from the Radicals; one always hears only criticism, but no independent suggestion of where the boundaries lie in the view of the Radicals.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219124854	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219124855	I have not heard any other parties offer an exact number, including Mr. Rasmus Jarlovs, but he is welcome to make it in his next comment. In the Radical Left, we want to control the flow of refugees by having a pan-European agreement on distribution, as proposed by the European Commission, and as advocated by a majority of EU members. This is the only way to control the influx, and it could well mean fewer refugees in Denmark. We in the Radical Left will be very comfortable with that. What we have a problem with is when austerity is introduced, which means that integration is getting worse for those who have already arrived. Because we live up to international conventions and obligations, which of course mean that when refugees who have a convention requirement for refugee status are here on asylum, they must be treated properly, otherwise we will not be able to make integration work.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219124952	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219124954	Conservatives' policy is that we should take 5,000 a year. That is a very concrete figure. And I think the Radicals should also answer with a figure: how many can we accept in Denmark and still have responsible integration so that our society does not have huge social tensions and some ethnic minorities that end up forming a new subclass in Denmark, and thus we have an ethnic division of our country? These are quite serious challenges that we will face if we accept too many refugees. And I think the Radicals are totally blind to it and think only of international conventions and not of the future of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219125029	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219125030	The reason why we in the Radical Left are concerned about international conventions is not for the sake of conventions, it is for people's sake, for our own sake, because we can only solve real, realistic problems with real solutions that are sustainable, together with other partners. We cannot do that in Denmark alone, even if the Conservative People's Party has put a figure on it, because it does not have a figure in the government. And I assume that the Conservative People's Party, which is part of the government, intends to comply with the international commitments they have.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219125104	The next question is Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219125107	I fear that Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen's political reality is based on an illusion. Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen must be able to see that this European solution to this so-called refugee problem does not seem to be possible in the real world. These people are not being distributed from the camps in Greece and Italy. And since that is the case, we must be able to find a different answer from the answer that Mrs Carsten Nielsen has given all the time, which is called international or pan-European solutions. Because if there is not the will to solve that problem in other European countries, then the will that I can understand Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen has, then you have to resort to some other solutions. And what is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen's solution until that pan-European solution materializes itself? Because there has to be another way. We can't just stand by until that happens.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219125213	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219125214	No, and fortunately, Europe has not left its mark. It has gone far too slowly; there has been far too little will, among other things. We in Denmark have not made a major contribution to finding pan-European solutions. However, some have been found; agreements have been made, among other things. with Turkey, which means that there is also an agreement on the flow of refugees. Is that a pretty deal? No, but that is exactly what needs to be done for more cross-country agreements. And that will only come if there is a will to do so. After all, there are no political agreements that come through without political will. We can look back in history and see that when we cannot make cross-border agreements to solve cross-border problems, there will be no realistic solutions; then we will not find solutions to the problems. And that is exactly the dilemma we face, and then we have to keep working for the right, realistic solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219125312	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219125313	Well, Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen came easily and elegantly bypassing what I actually asked. For the fact that this problem cannot be solved by pan-European solutions alone has not arisen from Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. Is it really Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen's conviction that Denmark should not do anything of its own to limit the influx of asylum seekers to Denmark, but that we should, on the contrary, take more quota refugees, relax our immigration policy in the direction that the Radical Left is going to do? Or what is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen's solution if such a pan-European solution cannot be achieved? 'Cause it's not coming. After all, one cannot build one's entire political foundation on an illusion.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219125401	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219125402	I'm not quite sure if sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth there says that it is the position of the Danish People's Party that the EU is an illusion and that European cooperation is an illusion. Maybe it's actually sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth's position. So far it has to be at his own expense. But it is the European solutions that are being worked out. What we could do even more ourselves was to contribute much, much more to help in the neighbourhood, so that fewer people had to flee. I have not seen support for this, even from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219125439	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Do more people want to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219125446	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. We're getting ready to vote. We need to get the technique with us. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, In favour of voting 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against voting 78 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), [no votes for or against 0]. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219125605	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak in this connection? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendments has ended and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219125630	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2 of a minority (SF), joined by the committee? They are adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219125643	The debate then concerns the proposal as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the proposal? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219125653	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. Is there any confusion about the vote? There isn't. That concludes voting time. In favour 81 (S, V, EL, ALT, LA, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstentions 22 (DF). The draft parliamentary resolution has been adopted and will now be sent to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219125747	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219125805	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. That concludes voting time. In favour 22 (DF), against 81 (S, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), [no votes for or against 0]. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219125835	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219125850	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. That concludes voting time. In favour 103 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0 [no votes for or against 0]. The draft parliamentary resolution has been unanimously adopted and will now be sent to the Parliamentary Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219125922	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219125940	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 by a minority (ALT), elected by a majority (the other committee) that the bill is divided into two legislative proposals? The division of the bill into two legislative proposals has been adopted. The bill referred to in A is then put to the vote [Proposal for a law amending the law on the valuation of the country's real estate and the law on financial activities]. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2-11, member of the Committee? They are adopted. The bill referred to in B is then put to the vote [Proposal for a law amending the law on the valuation of the country's real estate and the law on the municipal property tax]. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 12 of a minority (ALT), joined by a minority (EL and SF) and can be voted on. That concludes voting time. In favour 20 (EL, ALT and SF) voted against 83 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), [no votes for or against 0]. The amendment has been rejected. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. 13, tabled and joined by the same minorities who were rejected. It has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 14, to be elected by the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the legislative proposals go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219130112	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219130129	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (SF), joined by a minority (EL, ALT and RV). The vote is closed. In favour of 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 79 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. 3-5, tabled and joined by the same minorities who were rejected. They are rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 1 and 6, also nominated and joined by the same minorities, lapsed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219130218	Then we have the situation that we still have to deal with paragraph 16, that is. 3. treatment of L 91. I shall now suspend the sitting for 10 minutes in order to ensure that Members have the version of the amendment distributed to them. The sitting will resume in 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219131244	The sitting is resumed. I would point out that, after the agenda has been published, Amendment No No has been tabled outside the supplementary report. 6-8 of the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate, who can only be dealt with in this meeting with the agreement of the Things. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course. The Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate has also informed me that he wishes to withdraw Amendment No. 4 and 5 tabled in the supplementary report. Does anyone wish to accept the amendments? As this is not the case, the amendments have lapsed. The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? Here you go to the Minister of Energy, Supply and Climate.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219131330	Thank you for that, President. I spoke at the second reading of L 91 on Friday. I informed you that on Thursday a large number of applications were made for a transitional arrangement for solar installations, which we are examining in the legislative proposal. I am standing here again today, as we have had the details excavated, and I have also been in consultation this morning at 9 a.m. 8 p.m., where I have explained in the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs the applications that have been made. The fact is that a large number of applications have been made for a transitional arrangement for solar cells. This is 1,660 MW. This must be compared with the fact that at the present time there is an increase in unemployment. only 7,9 MW has been established under the transitional arrangements. The applications came in at Energinet.dk on Thursday, 15 December. I can't interfere with the procedure. Energinet.dk states that it cannot yet be ruled out that a proportion of the cases may be accepted. This is a potentially unexpected increase in expenditure. If applications are accepted, there is an additional cost of 4.5 billion. kr. This is far beyond what we expected in the past, even if only a small part of the applications could be accepted. We need to respond to that. I understand if people are confused about the many applications within another solar system. After all, in May 2016, the Danish Parliament repealed an undertaking scheme for solar installations, the so-called 60/40 scheme. So what kind of arrangement is this? A lot of people are asking. Let me explain this: in the context of the establishment of the commitment scheme in 2015, there was a need to establish a transitional regime for those projects which had already started and which could therefore not be considered for the commitment scheme. It is on the transitional arrangements that a very large number of applications have been received. As I explained in the consultation this morning, I can explain the difference with the fact that in May 2016 we closed the commitment scheme that applied to projects that had not started. Conversely, the transitional arrangements apply to projects started before 1 July 2015. There have therefore been two different schemes depending on when the project was to start. How, then, should we respond to the unexpected large search for the transition system for solar installations? In the past, we have abolished aid schemes for solar installations because of an incredibly large number of applications, and the question is whether we will have to do it again. I think it's a tough decision. I'd like to admit that. I have said this in the consultation this morning, and I would like to repeat that here too. On the one hand, the risk of an enormous additional cost to the aid scheme is high. 1.660 MW costs 4.5 billion. kr., and even if it is a much smaller figure that might be realized, it remains an expense far beyond what was expected. It is an unfunded expense, and we cannot ignore that. That would be irresponsible. On the other hand, I am well aware that this is an intrusive amendment. There may be a number of people who have invested in trust in applicable rules before 1 July 2015 and will therefore be financially burdened as a result of the amendment. It annoys me, and I shall be the first to regret it. However, I see no other way but to predict the suspension of the transitional arrangement for solar cells. We will then have to decide at the beginning of the new year what will happen to the transitional arrangements. I can see that we are re-registering the scheme to the European Commission, but it is with the clear premise that a ceiling on the scheme should be created. There must be a curb on uncontrolled expansion in this area. It may well be that we will then have to make a new legislative proposal, but we will have to look at that. Overall, I hope that there is support for the legislative proposal and for the amendment I have tabled that suspends the transitional system for solar installations as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219131750	Thank you. There are a few comments. First, it's from sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219131800	After all, we had an amendment at 1 p.m. 6.09 this morning, and then we received a revised version here at 6:00. 12.54. I do not think this is the best procedure, and I would like to hear from the Minister whether it is true that the change that has been made here today will only take three days before the amendment comes into force. Is that the only change we've seen here? With regard to what to spend money on, the Minister says this could cost 4.5 billion. kr. If you look at the statement made by the Minister to the committee today, you can see that this is not the correct figure. What is more reasonable to take as a starting point, after having seen that statement, is that there are some 500 MW, which are the new ones in the case, and which one can well believe are applications which could be accepted if the Minister did not intervene, and then one would end up with a need for aid over the lifetime of the installations of 1.3 billion. kr. And that is not a big amount when you look at what we have saved in PSO, by the fact that the coastal mills and Krieger's Flak have become much cheaper. There we have saved about 8 billion. kr. So there's money to meet these applications for solar cells if it's only the 500 MW that's going to be implemented.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219131905	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219131908	Thank you. And thank you for the question. It is true that the only amendment to the bill is the three days before the bill takes effect. In relation to the total cost, I also pointed out that it could potentially amount to 4.5 billion. kr., but only a small part is uncertain about. And I say a smaller part because, after all, it is a total cost of no less than 1.3 billion. kr., and you don't just take it like that and find it from one day to the next; it's quite, quite a lot of money.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219131939	Here you go, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219131943	Then I would like to hear from the Minister whether, when it takes three days before the law comes into force, it will mean that employees in Energinet.dk will have to work for the next three days to process the applications that are really concrete and are not speculation in the Treasury's money, as the Environment Minister indicated during the consultation that it was. I would like to know whether it is not true that there are indeed some applications which could be dealt with for the next three days and which must be dealt with in the order in which they lie.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219132011	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219132014	Thank you for the question. I cannot and will not interfere in the proceedings in Energinet.dk. There we have the arm's length principle in relation to how these applications are dealt with, but I can confirm that proceedings will take place in the next few days until the amendment becomes fully effective and the scheme ends.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219132033	Then it's mr. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219132039	Thank you. Thank you to the Minister for his statement and for the consultation this morning. In the social democracy we agree with the government that, of course, we have to react when there is such an explosive, unexpected and very, very significant increase. It is, of course, a very large unfunded bill that we must expect. That is why we support the Government's attempts to slow down here, but I also have to say that it is, of course, unsatisfactory that, for the second time in a relatively short space of time, we have to find ourselves in a situation where a great many things have to be done overnight and where the PV systems have to be changed in this way. What I would like to hear the Minister's comment on here concerns the fact that solar cells are becoming cheaper and cheaper and thus an increasingly attractive renewable form of energy. Can the Minister not confirm that with the solar PV supply that has been implemented recently, renewable energy with solar energy can actually be obtained even more cheaply than we have on this 60/40 scheme, which has otherwise been set up in connection with these applications?
ParlaMint-DK_20161219132145	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219132147	Thank you, sir. Jens Joel. And thank you also for your support for the amendment and for addressing the challenge we are facing here. I can confirm that the supply model and the latest supply of solar cells that has been are at a lower level than this one.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219132202	Sir. Jens Joel, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219132205	Thank you. Then I also think that the Minister and the government must take the lead in trying to send out some signals to this industry, which is now being shut down very quickly, that you actually want this. And with the money we seem to be saving by solar cells becoming cheaper so quickly, you could consider whether there was a chance to keep the solar market going, rather than making a new energy deal so that we don't get a stop and go again. The last thing I would like the Minister to comment on concerns some of the private people who have bought a plant and who, in connection with this rapid shut down, may get into a mess. Does the minister have a plan for those people?
ParlaMint-DK_20161219132243	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219132245	Thank you for the question. So those who get into trouble here, in other words those who have invested in an installation that they have not yet been approved, have the opportunity to sue the state, just as it will be the case that, in the context of negotiations with the European Union for the continuation of the scheme, we will do everything we can to enable those who have applied for their subsidies to be granted. In relation to the location of solar cells, I would say that I absolutely have the idea that solar energy will play a central role, not least when we have to achieve the target of 50 per cent. renewable energy by 2030.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219132320	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219132325	Thank you. I'm gonna put another number on the numbers we're talking about here. This is about the 1.660 MW, and what we are really talking about is the 508 MW which has been given new information and which can therefore give rise to an expenditure of approx. 1.3 billion DKK, but it's over 20 years. So 1.3 billion. kr. distributed over 20 years. I think that is quite important information. We're not talking about 1.3 billion. kr. next year or on a financial bill now and next year. We're talking about the fact that over the next 20 years, these 508 MW solar cells could cost it. Can the Minister confirm that? I would also like to mention that the Minister is speaking forward. We can find more initiatives in the field of solar energy and also believe in sun in the future, but I have heard the Minister say that what will come up to 2020 will be a maximum of 20 MW, because the 60/40 scheme is full and 20 MW is what will then have to come up to 2020. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20161219132440	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219132442	That's right. It is not all 1.660 MW that is uncertain, but I have to say that 508 MW, and there was an expectation of an expansion of between 5 and 7 MW, is a very, quite significant additional figure, which would have to be found in the Finance Act, of no less than 1.3 billion. kr. It's for me to see a lot of money. In relation to the continued role of solar energy, we will be discussing energy policy towards 2030 in the coming year, and I have a clear expectation that solar energy will also be included in the forward-looking Danish energy policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219132522	Thank you. Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219132525	But again, it's 1.3 billion. kr. Over 20 years we're talking about. After all, 20 MW by 2020 is not very much, and with the Paris agreement we concluded last year, I am thinking that we must get out of the steppes with solar energy. Surely we cannot wait until after 2020 to get more than 20 MW extra. So does the Minister really think that by 2020 20 MW extra is enough in the solar field?
ParlaMint-DK_20161219132554	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219132556	Thank you for the question. I can only note that by 2020 Denmark will be up to 40%. of total energy consumption is based on renewable energy. It places Denmark as one of the countries in the world that has the highest share of renewable energy in the energy supply. That doesn't mean we have to sit on our hands and do nothing. We will be discussing energy policy in the coming years towards 2030, and I believe that there will also be a role for solar energy, as I said before.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219132626	Thank you. Then it's mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219132637	This is a serious matter. After all, this is the second time within a few months that we are in the process of amending the law very quickly to avoid over-consumption in relation to what we had agreed. That's why we're here, like sir. Jens Joel said to look at how we're doing this in the future, because this is an unsatisfactory situation. Having said that, I would nevertheless like to take this opportunity to commend the Minister for having called the conciliation board very early this morning and informed him of what was going to happen. I think that is good conciliation practice, even if it should go very fast. What I would like to ask the Minister is: is it not true that one-and-a-half more solar energy could be obtained for this money in the supply model? And then I would like to ask the Minister to tell us a little about the initiatives the Minister will take in the coming year to create a new solar system, because we are very interested in that in the Radical Left we are not against solar energy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219132729	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219132732	Thank you for supporting the amendment. I think it is crucial that we have a debate about having a ceiling on all the various aid schemes in general, so that we avoid what we are witnessing here. It's also true that I haven't quite calculated the percentages that there's more solar energy coming through the supply model than there is with what's on the table here. And in relation to the future position of solar energy in energy policy, I think it is obvious that we should discuss it when we meet in the energy conciliation circle in a short time.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219132808	Thank you. Sir. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219132812	Thank you. I would like to ask this question about how much more solar energy could be obtained for the money, as committee questions. It is quite fair that the Minister cannot answer that question. I know you've been walking all weekend. But I'm going to ask that because I think that's a pretty important point. Then I would like to ask the Minister if he is prepared to devote more money to more megawatts of solar energy when we discuss this scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219132843	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219132845	Thank you for the question. I cannot, of course, stand here on the speaking chair of the Danish Parliament today and give an undertaking on that. Danish energy policy has become quite expensive, even since we entered into the energy agreement back in 2012, and when you look at the targets we are achieving by 2020, we are quite advanced. But of course I am ready for us to keep going, and that is because we have a broad energy mix talking about whether there are things we can do in a new and different way.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219132911	Thank you. Then it's mr. Mikkel Dencker, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219132919	Thank you. I would also like to acknowledge to the Minister that there has been a good level of information to the conciliation parties in the course of this weekend, that is, since Friday. In the Danish People's Party, of course, we support these amendments. We think it is sensible and that it is timely care to intervene when it appears that the level of expenditure on a particular solar system or some other support for green energy suddenly explodes between the hands of all of us. So there's support for that from here. But my question is actually just to the Minister: will the Minister take the initiative to ensure that our green support schemes are put together in a way that avoids these sudden explosions in the number of applications, where we have incalculable aid payments in prospect, so that we simply get that fence in, and so that we do not find ourselves in this situation where we are going to make these urgent measures, which we have now had quite a lot of?
ParlaMint-DK_20161219133016	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219133019	Thank you, sir. Mikkel Dencker, also for the support and for the good cooperation on this matter. I can guarantee that I will look at this and look at the possibilities that exist to incorporate a ceiling into all the different aid schemes that exist. I would also very much like to do this in cooperation with the Danish People's Party and the other parties in the energy reconciliation circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219133038	Good. There are no more brief comments, it seems. The debate on the amendments is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on Amendment No. 1-3... well, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen wishes to speak as rapporteur? We'll take that with us, please. But I'm so happy when you push in. So it's a lot easier to control from up here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219133101	Thank you. In the middle of the fight, I think we should remember to welcome the fact that this bill helps to ensure that in Denmark we can build 350 MW coastal mills at the world's lowest price and that we also get Krieger's Flak of 600 MW at the world's lowest price. We would actually have thought that there was such a gap in the draft law, which was not so important and which related to some PV schemes that had to be adjusted and phased out. But then we got this announcement on Friday that there are just applications for aid for 1,650 MW solar cells, and so I do not think it is easy to work politically when you get things so late. Now we have the number. 2 amendments from here at 2 p.m. 12.54, and that is an adjustment to what came this morning at 12:00 a.m. 6:00. I actually think that if we had had a little better time to adjust this, we could have come up with something even better. And I think it is a pity that this should be experienced in connection with the adoption of legislative proposals in the Folketing. I think it would have been easy to have landed something where it wasn't these pumped-up 4.5 billion. kr. the total amount of aid granted to solar cells with which they had ended up. When you look carefully at the statement we received this morning, you can see that it is a much lower amount. Then it is perhaps 500 MW that could get through and be accommodated so that we could have the solar cells expanded by 500 MW. It would have been interesting if we had ended up there and it would have cost only 1.3 billion. kr. seen over 20 years. If you look at what a reduction in aid needs has been because we have got these good offers on Krieger's Flak and the coastal mills and there you are saving over 8 billion. kr. kr.? That's enough to live with, and then we'll get more renewable energy for the money. The Enhedslisten will not support these amendments from the Minister. We do not think it is so disastrous that we are faced here with 500 MW of renewable energy. If you look at the global challenge we have, if you look at what challenges we have with climate change, then in Denmark we have to turn our ambitions up strongly. If you want to take this one-and-a-half-degree measure, that is, the temperature of the planet can only rise by one-and-a-half degrees, seriously, and if you distribute it CO 2 2 then we should actually reduce it by 8%. a year. Would that be possible? Yes, at least we would have to deal with solutions which it turns out exist when you have such a case here about what is suddenly possible in the solar field. I think it would be a difficult task to reduce Denmark's CO2 per year. That would require a completely different climate and energy policy than we now have. What is positive in this process is that it has become clear that solar cells are becoming cheaper and cheaper. One can look at the recent invitation to tender, which had the expectation that the 20 MW would result in an aid requirement of 8 million. kr. There you ended up with something that costs Denmark just over 2 million. kr. It was well to note the invitation to tender which was open to German plants which could obtain Danish PSO. It didn't end up because no one offered. In parallel with this, we have seen that there were 50 MW of German solar cells that were offered, where there were Danish companies that invited in and so achieved something that means that the company in Denmark that won gets 57 million. kr. in subsidies over the life of the plants. I think it is positive. But I don't think it's a good thing for us to have these hussa interventions against the solar industry. It is really catastrophic when an industry has to go all the way down to zero because there are politicians who completely pull the hand brake and brake everything up. I think it is a huge opportunity that lies in the fact that there are so many applications. And what we have discovered this morning is that if all cases were dealt with, we would not end up with more than 1 600 MW, but then we would end up with 500 MW having a chance to get through. In addition, there are some minor applications, and I fear that some of them will get into trouble with this procedure, and I think that is a shame. Originally, it was 200 plants that might have been in such a mess. We do not know exactly how many of the applications have come through the system, but I fear that some will be squeezed by this. So the Enhedslisten cannot support the amendments, but we will be voting in favour of the major legislative proposal, L 91, which, as such, determines what the support needs are for Krieger's Flak and the coastal mills, and I think that is the most important thing in this matter. Then, one day after New Year, we will have to take a serious look at what we are going to do in Denmark in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219133559	Thank you. There are no brief comments. This is about the amendments, and it is a good thing to announce that you want to have the floor. And I had actually finished the debate, but it's the last day before Christmas, so we're nice to each other. Here you go, sir. Christian Poll, because it is also about the amendments, I understand. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219133616	Thank you. After all, this PV industry is heavily burdened with stop and go regulation, and it's not useful to anyone. It's superpositive that we now see the price drop steadily and calmly on solar cells and now so much that we get these big bids in. This is the way we need to get much more solar energy into our energy system. And that is also why, in the alternative, we cannot vote in favour of this amendment, because we actually believe that there should be a much larger PV extension than that provided for in the scheme and in the transitional regime. Now we heard this announcement from the Radical Left rapporteur that one-and-a-half times more solar cells could be obtained for the same price if a tender arrangement is made. That is fine, I would like to take a look at that, but I just do not hear the Minister and the conciliation circle make any proposals to ensure us, for example. 500 MW or 1.000 MW or something of that magnitude. We are still talking something like 20 MW by 2020, and that is too little in the eyes of the Alternative. That is why we cannot vote in favour of the amendment, but we will vote in favour of the draft law as a whole, because it forms the basis for the wind farms, which are even bigger in this context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219133743	Thank you, sir. Christian Poll. There are no brief comments. Are there any more who wish to comment on the amendments? That is not the case, and then the debate on the amendments is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219133754	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-3, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 6 outside the supplementary report by the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate, and a vote can be taken. The vote is over. In favour of voting 89 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), against 13 (EL and ALT), abstentions 0. The proposal is adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 7 and 8 outside the supplementary report by the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate? They are adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219133842	The negotiations then concern the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the bill itself? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219133854	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. In favour 102 (S, DF, V, LA, EL, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161219133922	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 10 January 2017, at 3 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which is also shown on the Danish Parliament's website. I wish all Members and all staff in the house a merry Christmas and a happy New Year. And I look forward to seeing everyone again on the first day of January. The peace of Christmas descends over the Danish people's rule.
