ParlaMint-DK_20160503214505	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503214510	The matter entered as item 1 on the agenda can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503214525	Does anyone wish to speak? I have seen two rapporteurs turn themselves in, and the first is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503214556	Thank you. We've got three treatments to do in one day. We have then been told that we have to reach the third reading by 1 p.m. 22:00 so that the Queen can sign. I think this is fucked up. This is a matter that we respect must be rushed through. We have been open to that. We really would have liked to have dealt with it over two days, which seems to us to have been more reasonable, because then we could ask a few questions, get answers to our questions, and we could be able to incorporate it into a report. Then we would actually be able to accept it. Now we have a second reading in which we have to reflect on some rather far-reaching answers to some questions, and we two rapporteurs will have to do that in four minutes. I think this is far beyond reasonableness. There is simply reason for the Bureau to talk about this matter. I think that is deeply unacceptable. The Enhedslisten has come to the conclusion that we can support the draft law, and we would very much like to see further work being done to ensure that the smaller applications that have been squeezed into this intervention are met. For what is at the back of this is that there are some who have submitted many applications to solar installations and so have crossed the line of what is meant by the law, and at the same time there are some housing associations and a municipality who have sent in a single application and who are also being slaughtered as we close this legislation. I do not think this treatment is worthy of the Folketing, and I could talk about it for a long time, but I will refrain from doing so, because I respect the fact that we have to have this third reading before 1 p.m. 10:00.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503214737	There are no brief comments to this rapporteur. So the next to a rapporteur's speech is Mr. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503214743	Thank you. For the same reason, I'm gonna try to do this very quickly. We have gathered here today quite extraordinaryly to shut down an aid scheme for the expansion of renewable energy in Denmark, namely the 60-40 scheme for solar installations. The alternative considers that it is deadly that the government has been overrun by the development of the PV market and has not found due diligence to adjust the scheme to suit the rapid and very positive developments we are seeing in the PV sector these years. Today we are giving a lot of support to fossil energy in Denmark. The IMF has calculated that it is well over 40 billion. kr. a year. Here we have a fifth place in Europe. When I mention that, it is to put into perspective what we are talking about today. Applications have been submitted for a total of 4,500 MW PV plants, and these will give an estimated cost in the PSF of 11 billion. kr. over 10 years, corresponding to approx. 1 billion kr. a year. In comparison, agriculture saves approx. One-and-a-half billion. kr. per year in fossil fuel taxes because they pay lower taxes. So the 11 billion. kr. may sound of much, but is not an unreasonable figure over a 10-year period for such a solid transition to a renewable energy system that the 4,500 MW solar cells will contribute to. Having said that, it is problematic for the 60-40 scheme to suddenly experience in one month a search 75 times larger than the expected 60 MW framework by 2020. And it is also problematic that so many applications are grouped together on the same matricles, because in practice it challenges the way the aid should be given, namely for installations of max. 500 kW. And finally, it is problematic that such large installations will be placed on the ground, because I would much rather that solar installations were placed on all the south facing roofs that exist in Denmark. That is why, in the alternative, we have spent the day thinking creatively and constructively today to see whether we could in any way save the scheme instead of completely shutting it down, and that has resulted in our Amendment No. 1-3, which is about trying to ensure a continued possibility for the scheme to work. These are the roof surfaces we'd like to have the solar cells on. The alternative considers that there is a need for a revised and much better-thought-out scheme that can ensure a massive annual expansion of solar installations without going as far as we have seen in April 2016 with the 4,500 MW. We are very happy to engage in dialogue on how we can get together. We have had various considerations today, which I will save you from, and when the alternative ultimately chooses to vote against the original proposal, which from tomorrow closes down the 60-40 scheme, it is because the Minister in the answers to questions 10 and 12 states that with the applications that have been accepted up to today, at a total of 87 MW, the framework of 60 MW has already been reached, and therefore there is no need for a new, adjusted scheme before 2020. The alternative vertically disagrees with the fact that we do not need a similar well-thought-out scheme to promote solar installations before 2020. We believe there is a need for a much more ambitious expansion of the Danish energy system with solar installations of all sizes, and we would therefore rather see too much than too little. That is why we are voting against the original proposal to shut down the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503215050	Thank you to the rapporteur. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503215059	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (ALT) and a vote can be taken. Are there any more who wish to vote? The vote will end. in favour of 6 (ALT), against 96 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 1 and 3, tabled by the same minority, also rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20160503215305	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting will be held in five minutes. The agenda will start with the third reading of Bill No. L 185 and the rest of the agenda items from the previous sitting.
