ParlaMint-DK_20161117100039	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Minister for Children and Education and Gender Equality (Ellen Trane Nørby): Bill no. L 85 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Employers' Educational Contributions and the Law on Vocational Training. The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20161117100110	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are three proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 12 by Martin Lidegaard (RV), Nick Hækkerup (S), Michael Aastrup Jensen (V), Christina Egelund (LA), Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT), Holger K. Nielsen (SF) and Nase Khader (KF), and voting is possible. The vote is over. In favour, 87 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions 24 (DF). Proposal for adoption No V 12 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 10 by Nikolaj Villumsen (EL) and No. V 11 of Søren Espersen (DF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117100312	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Sir. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117100334	The political commentators said in the early autumn that it would take good political craftsmanship to reach an overall agreement on the government's proposal for a 2025 plan, while at the same time the tasks that have been postponed need to be resolved and then a Finance Act for 2017 on top of that. Today we have the second reading of the proposal for next year's Finance Act. There is no financial law agreement in place and the most important duty tasks that we all have an interest in dealing with have been pushed to literally the last moment. And the 2025 plan? It is postponed indefinitely. Is that craftsmanship? Well, there's been a little climbing, but nothing has really been done, hasn't it? To call it good craftsmanship would probably be just to tighten it up. I guess it reminds me a little more of the craftsman who has moved 5-7 times and who finally comes by for the eleventh hour just to put what is popularly called a comfort ladder out in the driveway, so that you feel like something is happening after all. This increase can, in experience, remain there for quite a long time. In the Social Democratic Party we are annoyed that we have not started the negotiations in the past, because there are plenty of tasks that we should be working together through broad agreements. The government should focus its efforts on what is clearly agreed in Danish policy, for example to implement growth initiatives for the benefit of the whole country. Instead, time is spent trying to pour out production jobs in West Jutland with the bathing water on the sole grounds that wind turbines are ugly. Denmark's Statistics has recently revised the growth figures for the period 2013-2015. These figures show that growth over the period has been greatly underestimated. Measured by GDP per capita The upgrading means that the Danish economy is in top ten and moves ahead of both Sweden and Germany. Thus, in 2015 alone, GDP has been undervalued by 41.8 billion. kr. But most importantly: This means that the Danish economy has been on the right track in those years. We made long-term decisions that were sometimes difficult, but that means that we now have a solid foundation to stand on. That does not mean that I am calling today for us to just sit back and let go. No, we should instead rely on Denmark and make the right and long-term decisions that will develop Denmark and create new jobs. The answer is not top tax relief. The upward adjustment of GDP takes the air out of the burning platform for the government's planned tax cuts, which they have otherwise tried to launch. In the Social Democratic Party we believe instead that we must ensure that companies in Denmark have the right conditions to grow and that we in Denmark must be able to offer the right workforce when they have to hire more. It is the right medicine for Denmark. On 29 September this year, the Prime Minister of the country said the renowned words: the Finance Act and 2025 are each other's mutual prerequisites. A month later he found that with the time pressure we have, it cannot be achieved. The fact that so much time had to go by has not only puzzled us here at Christiansborg, but probably the majority of the population. But let me just make it clear that the fact that it has shrunk real negotiations cannot be attributed to us in the Social Democrat Party. We have clearly stated, for example, that we want to solve the tasks of duty, and we have also clearly stated that we are ready to conclude agreements on growth initiatives. It is possible that the comfort ladder in the driveway has been set up for Mr. Anders Samuelsen, who may be going down from the very mentioned tree one day. However, it seems that the Danish People's Party has effectively taken all the steps in terms of what one might have imagined should have been gradual top tax reliefs away, and I think it must be due to the government's savings at the Labour Inspectorate that no one has yet removed this sad comfort ladder without steps for safety reasons. We have urged several times to push block policy aside and find broad solutions for the benefit of Denmark. Unfortunately, it seems to be a very closed process, the government and its support parties are in the process of implementing next year's Finance Act, and it has managed to create insecurity in society. For example, it has. created uncertainty in the housing market because an agreement on the future housing tax system has not yet been reached. It has also created uncertainty among the country's pensioners, because the government is sticking to the financial bill, in the savings in pensioners' housing benefits that were agreed last year. This means that the government is planning to save 200 million. kr. the housing allowance for elderly people next year and a total of just under 1.5 billion. kr. Towards 2020. Insecurity has been created in the business world, which does not really know whether the agreements reached in very broad conciliation circles in the Folketing can be trusted at all. I cannot think of an historical precedent with such an obvious breach of a political agreement. It is absolutely devastating for the traditions that we have built up here in the Folketing, and thus also for the confidence of the people. Not least in the field of energy, the possibility of reaching binding compromises is crucial because the massive investment we are asking industry to make in our energy system requires stable framework conditions. If the industry cannot rely on an agreement to be an agreement, then they will withdraw their investments. Why, moreover, the government has chosen only to hold discussions with parts of the energy society in this context is a mystery to me. Insecurity has also been created about public transport, where the government is trying to take the Togfonden DK hostage. And not least, uncertainty has been created in a number of the country's municipalities in Jutland and on Funen, who have put time and work into offering existing buildings to a new police station west of Storebælt, just to find out that the government will not use their many good proposals for anything. For example, about this process, the Mayor of the Left Arne Søgenbjerggaard from Vejle has said: "And it seems as if it is something that has been decided a long time ago, and then a lot of us other municipalities have really been made fun of, because we have spent so much resources and man-hours on this. Hans colleague from Haderslev, Hans Peter Geil, also from the Left, will vote in with a protest: I will not be judged to change the rules of the game along the way. I have also noted that the members of the Left's own group have wondered about the process. According to Mr. Thomas Danielsen has been insane and calls for an internal rationalization. In fact, it is a little difficult to disagree with Mr. Thomas Danielsen in that view. How the government can avoid the majority in the Folketing behind the police settlement is as incomprehensible to me as when it comes to the aforementioned train fund. Perhaps the Minister for Finance can explain here from the platform why the conciliation parties have not been called for discussions on this matter. For the Social Democratic Party it remains clear that there must be three major ambitions for Denmark: Denmark must be more skilled; we will carry out an upgrading reform and ensure that more people are part of the labour market. The upgrading of unskilled skilled workers to skilled workers will ensure both the individual lasting link with the labour market, but it is also an important tool for supporting companies in Denmark that grow larger and demand new skills. Denmark must be richer. We will implement a targeted growth reform to support the growth and growth of skilled companies established in Denmark. And we want to safeguard the green ambitions that create green jobs for the benefit of the whole country. In particular, we will ensure that Denmark is fairer by strengthening welfare and our public sector, which is the backbone of the Danish social model. All this requires decisions that are broadly based in the Danish Parliament, and I would therefore like to take this opportunity to urge the government once again to think broadly when it comes to the future of Denmark. Social democracy has always been ready. We are still gone, and in this way we may end up working together on good craftsmanship.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117101310	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are some brief comments. First, it's sir. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117101314	Now it is true that it is the government's draft Finance Act that we are today second-reading, so I just have to ask: when will the Social Democratic Party come forward with their draft Finance Act for 2017?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117101322	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117101325	As Mr. Jacob Jensen is well aware of the fact that we are more than willing to enter into discussions and negotiations on the Finance Act and on a possible 2025 plan, and we have also presented a comprehensive account of what priorities we have, as I have just explained. In addition, I think it might also be appropriate to remind you that it was the Prime Minister who indicated that we should see the 2025 plan and the Finance Act as a whole. That is why we must also assume, when we make plans for negotiations with the government, that what the Prime Minister says is also something we must be able to take at face value. That has not proved to be the case can hardly be blamed for.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117101411	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117101412	I will take that as if the country's largest party, which would like to take over the Prime Minister's post, did not come up with a draft Finance Act for 2017. It is noted - it is regrettable, but it is noted.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117101422	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117101423	Now, sir. Jacob Jensen took part in several debates in which Mr. Jacob Jensen has tried in various ways to spin with imaginary figures in connection with our proposal for negotiations on the 2025 plan, the 2025 plan, which the Prime Minister said was linked to me on 29 September. Jacob Jensen has time to listen to the Finance Act; you have done what you can to spin something around. So I think it's weird that sir... Jacob Jensen has forgotten that he himself has been involved in debates on these elements.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117101505	Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117101511	Thank you for your speech, and thank you for also mentioning some of the traditions we usually have in the people's regime in the Folketing for agreements with the government on conciliation. That is why I would like to ask a few questions about the PSO, which I also know Mr. Benny Engelbrecht is very interested in finding a proper solution. Will the rapporteur not put a little more words into the way in which we usually make proper agreements, meet in conciliation, conciliation, especially when this is so important for the economy of ordinary people, for the economy of companies, for the green transition for something that most of the parties in the Folketing think is really important? Will the rapporteur not say a few words about the process or lack of process that has been going on?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117101609	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117101611	I have really checked my memory and also asked others who have longer experience.I have, after all, only been in Parliament since 2007 than I could think of precedents for such a way as the current government has dealt with the energy reconciliation circle, the broad energy reconciliation circle, which has existed for so many years, and also, for example, the conciliation circle that is about Togfonden DK. I have not succeeded in finding examples that remind me of the fact that in this way it looks great at parties calling for discussions without bringing with them a whole circle of conciliation and so on. I think it is very bad style, bad custom, and I understand that those parties that are part of these conciliations and who should not have been invited to any of these discussions feel that this is a strange process. However, it must also be a strange process for those parties which are not part of a settlement but are still being invited away to meetings on how, for example, funding should take place in the future. It's very strange.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117101731	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117101733	I fully agree with that, and I am also very pleased with the rapporteur's comment. If anyone follows, it may seem like something Christiansborgfnidderfnaderfnader with the traditions we have, but it is, of course, the whole foundation of trusting each other that we make agreements that go a long way in the future, and that should be of benefit to all people in this country and to the green transition that is so necessary; that we can rely on the fact that when we make some agreements, we also hold onto them and that parties are not kept out of discussion when it is so important where there is so much money at stake and so much at stake in relation to the whole of the future green transition. So I'm just really happy about this, and I hope we don't see this again... I think I'm a scandalous way to have to go with political agreements. After all, the government could also risk that the bad style rubbed off on future governments. But I hope, when the government changes, that we will at least shake hands with each other, that we will not behave so badly. We respect agreements and we call the parties involved in those agreements.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117101846	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117101848	I think Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen is quite right in saying that if we are to be able to hold on to some of the confidence that the Danes, who, after all, the voters still have to have with us politicians, it is very important that we stick to the conciliation that has been reached and that we can be trusted, because the whole point is that the conciliation that has been concluded in particular should be something that extends beyond parliamentary terms and that we do not have to go along with it. It is very difficult to disagree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117101923	Thank you. Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117101926	Thank you. I would like to continue where the former rapporteur left off, because, on the other hand, parties that do not participate in the energy conciliation have been invited. I think this is totally unacceptable, and in this respect I would like to ask the rapporteur for the Socialist Group whether the rapporteur does not agree that, of course, no agreement can be reached which interferes with the energy conciliation without negotiations being held throughout the conciliation circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117102007	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117102008	We believe that we must stick to the energy conciliation circle that exists and that it must also be sworn in. I also think it is appropriate, although one should not quote from the debate, to mention, however, that I do not recall that there have been negotiating meetings where there have been parties from the energy conciliation circle which have not been represented, where it has not been explicitly mentioned by those present, that it has been considered a strange process.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117102041	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117102043	We appreciate that, of course, but I also expect that, in this statement, before an agreement is reached, on which the other parties participating in the conciliation have signed, we will of course have ensured that the whole conciliation group has been involved. In this connection, I should like to say something. Since we are not in the negotiations, it is of course interesting for us to know here and now, when the parties that sit there actually stand. The government basically envisages that the business community will have to pay DKK 0 in the future. to the green switch, and that bill must then be wiped off on Mr. I would just like to hear from the Social Democrat rapporteur whether this is something that the Social Democratic Party can accept in any way.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117102127	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117102129	We are very concerned that there is no bill that ends up with pensioners. After all, there have been various elements in the press, which I also take note of from the rapporteur, and which we do not at least consider to be the right balance in relation to things. Of course, the natural mix will be that everyone is helping to bear the burden, but that there is no negative distribution profile where pensioners, if PRS is abolished, will pay more through tax than they do today via PRS. So it is clear that then there must be a balance in things.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117102209	Sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117102211	I'm gonna follow up on sir. Pelle Dragsted's question, for what is the background to the question that Mr. Pelle Dragsted asks, is that today we have a distribution in relation to the collection of PRS, where part is paid by the companies and another part is paid by the citizens. The question, which I shall then ask Mr. Benny Engelbrecht, is: will the Social Democratic Party be prepared to conclude an agreement in which companies no longer have to contribute, in other words where companies are being taxed, or will the Social Democratic Party insist that there should at least be no change in the distribution that exists today? The change in distribution will mean a reduction in the tax burden for companies, including the United Kingdom. Because, as a result of the PRS that has been charged, the companies have received much lower energy prices, including lower energy prices than what was actually provided for in the energy agreement that was concluded some years ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117102310	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117102312	How exactly a mix should be combined in the further negotiations, we have to see, but I think it would be very natural to find a mix in which all parties, including the business community, contribute either directly or indirectly. I wonder if you could also find models where this is going to be the case. But we'll see about that. In any case, I would also like to make a statement, and this should be borne in mind that the conciliation part of the energy agreement is, of course, how to implement a plan, but not, in fact, the funding. That is probably not appropriate in the long term, and that is why we will probably have to consider in future conciliation how to link this together, so that the financing and use of the funds are linked. However, it is clear that, for the part that is about using the funds, it is absolutely essential that we stick to the conciliation circle that exists today.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117102412	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117102415	That is also why we are standing here asking questions today, because we are not in any negotiations that we should be involved in. Because in relation to the revenue side, as Mr. Benny Engelbrecht mentions, maybe the Social Democrats, perhaps not, I do not know, because we are not sitting in the negotiating room, can conclude an agreement that can have an impact on what will happen. That's why we're asking these questions. I would like to follow up on the first question I asked. Does this mean, as the rapporteur said, that social democracy can agree to an agreement where business contributes less than it does today?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117102450	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117102452	It depends on what the mix will look like, but overall, it has to be said that if you charge the costs in a different way from what has been planned up to now, the total collection will also be significantly reduced. I can, among other things. refer to the note which was distributed in the Finance Committee prepared by the Parliament's economic consultant, who very clearly describes that the total amount will, after all, be significantly smaller than it is today, and that is why it is of course something that must also be taken into account when you look at what the green transition is going to cost in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117102533	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? Yes, sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117102553	Thank you. This is, of course, a rather curious debate, because in most cases we will have a financial agreement to debate, but the government has not yet achieved its goal, either by means of financial law, and certainly not by means of the so-called general plan, which would then have been part of the Finance Act or, at least, by virtue of the Prime Minister's commitment to it. So it's been a little long and a little unsightly, you might say. But I wonder if there will be a financial agreement later this evening or tomorrow morning, which will certainly be a skilful way to avoid discussing it here and having to answer questions from the opposition. However, we know one thing, regardless of when the Finance Act is adopted and whether an agreement is reached, and that is that it will not address the important problems that Denmark faces. It is not going to solve the terrible situation in which thousands of Danish families have been placed as a result of the humiliating and cynical poverty benefits imposed by the government, and it will not solve the problem for the thousands of people affected by serious illness and disability who now have to live for several thousand dollars less a month, and for many they will be squeezed out of their homes. The insecurity of ordinary employees will continue to grow because the consequences of becoming unemployed have become harder as a result of government cuts in cash benefits. On the contrary, we actually see in the government's financial bill that we have to see if they get through with it all... a series of attacks on the Danes who get up every morning and go to work. The Labour Inspectorate is being cut. It means less security, it means less security for ordinary Danes who go to work. Of course, you don't care if you're sitting with soft fingers at the teak tree desk, but for a lot of people, this is life and death. It is proposed to reduce efforts to combat social dumping at a time when we hear how employers are increasingly speculating about importing underpaid, disorganised labour from poor EU countries. Development aid needs to be cut again. And then we can hear from what comes out of the negotiations that it does not stop there, no, new large tax rebates must also be given again to those who can afford to buy the most expensive cars if it is for the Liberal Alliance, while the Conservatives want to secure another year of freezing the ground. I think people know Enhedslisten's attitude. We think it might be sensible to ensure that the ground debt does not increase faster than people's incomes, that the rest may be paid once you have the money in your hand and sold the house, but the model proposed will of course benefit those who have the largest and most expensive properties up north of Copenhagen; that is where the really big gifts are given, it is not for those who live in a three-bedroom at Nørrebro. Another problem, which is not addressed at all, but which, on the contrary, is getting worse, is the question of our welfare society and the situation in which it stands. Money is being set aside for the welfare of the government's financial bill, but it is a bit hypocritical, because at the same time here after this treatment we are discussing the L 2 and L 3 laws on the so-called expenditure ceilings, which are, in fact, the laws that determine how our welfare develops, and here it is planned to continue to keep welfare in an iron grip in the municipalities. We have seen, year after year, how the municipalities have cut the number of people, the people who are close to welfare, those who care for our children in the day institutions, those who visit our elderly and take care of them. So even if a decorative millillion or two is set aside, it does not change the basics: the historically low growth in public consumption will continue, and thus our welfare will be undermined even more than it is today. And when the government chooses to continue with these ceilings, it is not from some sober economic thinking, it is an ideological choice that the public sector should be kept in the straitjacket it is today. It will also slow down growth. It is clear from the government's own statement that L 2 and L 3 in isolation are slowing down the growth of society. In fact, even though the right always sets out a contradiction between public spending and economic progress, it is often the other way around. Right now, one of the major problems we have in Denmark is the failing demand. Low public consumption means less demand, not more demand. This is not for the benefit of businesses and small businesses. After all, the most important challenge that the government completely ignores or goes in the wrong direction is the question of saving our planet from threatening global warming and a climate disaster. It is actually quite impressive that it took this government a little over a year to squander Denmark's leading position for several years as the leading green country in the world. Imagine what a great effort! We slided down to now take a 13th place. What do you think that means for the companies that are looking at where to invest? What does this mean for those countries that have looked for an example to follow? It is simply embarrassing, embarrassing, embarrassing. And this continues in the government's draft budget. We need to cut 150 million. kr. in the ecology of agriculture, of which 61 million. kr. should have been used here in 2017 • more conventional farming, more manure tanks out in our village community, but less ecology. Rural funds are being cut, where natural resources, as far as I can see, are being cut over 400 million. kr. And then on top of that comes the attack on the PRS. In those years when we can see a historically fast warming of the planet, the government has planned that we should then drop some wind farms. Are you supposed to laugh or cry? It is certainly not a responsible government that is acting here, it is not a government that takes responsibility for our future and for the future of our children, as it otherwise prides itself on doing. As I have said, we do not know exactly what is going on in these negotiations on PSOs, because we are not invited, although we are a conciliation party and even though these negotiations are directly interfering with the energy settlement. So far, we have had a system of solidarity in which citizens and business have contributed to the fact that we also have good, cheap energy and power in the future. That's what the PRS is funding. But we know what the government wants, and now it will say: business, businesses must no longer contribute, they have to pay DKK 0, and instead we send the bill to the pensioners by abolishing the green bottom tax, i.e. by raising the tax for the pensioners. There is not a group in Denmark which has a worse economy than the pensioners, and then they are the ones to whom the bill is sent. That's totally grotesque. The big question is whether the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party will accept this. Will it be accepted that in future business will no longer have to contribute and that the bill instead will end up with Mr. And Mrs. Denmark? It'll be exciting to see. This whole PSO fight is, by the way, infected with myths. We are constantly hearing that PSP is known to be illegal by the European Union. Wrong! The EU has said that the way the PSP is administered is problematic in relation to the competition rules. There are plenty of options for minor adjustments to the schemes. They say it's a bottom-up job to transfer the expense to the Finance Act. Wrong! After all, the European Union has accepted other solutions. There is not a single other EU country, as far as I know, that has chosen to move the PSP to the Finance Act. Other countries like Germany have chosen to open up, so that, if I may say so, these subsidies are traded across borders. It will probably be a very good business for Denmark. Then it is said that the conditions of the energy agreement have gone. Again, it's wrong! It is said that the PSO threatens the competitiveness of companies. Wrong! The PRS is rising because the electricity price on the market is falling. That's the system. If the electricity price drops 10 cents, the PSP only increases by 5 cents, i.e. the business is left with a lower bill every time the PSP rises. It has not really been so eager to tell the public. The fact is that this is about the government wanting to grant companies a tax relief, and the EU's criticism of the PSO is then used as an excuse for this. How nice it would be if you were just being honest and saying it It's exactly the kind of fix-fakes that I think make people so tired of politics, that you don't talk straight out of the bag. It is an honest matter that you want to give companies another tax rebate. It is an honest matter. But be honest about it. Be honest that it is pensioners and employees who have to pay instead. As I have said, we have not been invited to the negotiations on the PRS, despite the fact that we are in the energy conciliation circle, indeed, one of the parties that contributed so much to the establishment of the energy agreement, and despite the fact that, before the summer break, we took part in constructive negotiations with the Finance Minister, while parties that are not in the conciliation circle at all are taking part in the negotiations. So, I think it is absolutely unprecedented and shows a complete lack of respect for parliamentary traditions and the conciliation traditions in here. I hope that the Minister for Finance will go up and explain the reasonableness of that. Unfortunately, this is just another example of this government breaking with a well-known, yes, 100-year conciliation tradition in the Folketing and looking at ordinary parliamentary rules of play. We have also seen it with the Togfonden DK, where, despite the fact that there is a majority in a conciliation circle, the government chooses to table a draft budget which does not respect the agreements reached in the conciliation circle. Fortunately, in that case, the conciliation circle has chosen to stand together and stick together, and if the government does not bow down, there will be an amendment to the Finance Act. That's how it must be. It's just silly, it's silly. I fully agree with Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen that it is uncertain whether it is at all in the interests of the Left or the other parties in the right that we break down this tradition, or is it really in the interests of all of us to maintain respect for agreements? I think it is. To wind up, I would say that over the next few days, a financial law will be very likely to be agreed. It will not solve one of the most crucial problems facing Denmark. It will not tackle the poverty that we see spreading and the thousands of people who are at risk of being squeezed out of their homes because of the new poverty benefits. It will not go in and restore welfare, which has suffered from the economic crisis, where over 30,000 employees, warm hands, have disappeared out in our nursing homes, out in our hospitals, out in our kindergartens. And it will not address the greatest threat facing our generation of politicians in Denmark and the world: the threat of irreversible, irreversible global warming. It is perhaps the greatest failure, and it is one that we will remember generation after generation. Nor does this Finance Act solve the government's own problems with the major contradictions that exist among the parties that brought the government to power. The famous overall plan is as far from being adopted as it has always been. What remains is the image of a historically unpopular prime minister, a historically weak government that clings to power, not for the sake of the Danes, not for the sake of society, but for its own sake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117103921	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Josephine Fock as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117103938	Thank you. We are here today, at second reading, to discuss the government's draft budget. It is a draft budget that was originally tabled at the same time as the 2025 plan, but it has, as you know, been removed from the table. It is therefore difficult to see what the final draft budget will look like, which is why it is of course difficult to take a position on it. That is why I need to start somewhere else, namely with what the Finance Act would look like if the Alternative had the opportunity to decide. In recent years we have constantly heard that the empire lacks money, that the box is empty and that it is necessary to pursue a necessary policy. There is a narrow focus on the economic bottom line, and we see that the government wants to cut back on research, education, transfer income, the area of socially vulnerable and environment and climate. These are savings which may now and here give a plus on the economic bottom line, i.e. in the short term, but in the long term there is no doubt that this leads to a deficit both on the economic but also on the social and environmental bottom line. But it doesn't have to be that way. That is why the alternative has presented a proposal for a financial bill which makes profits on all three bottom lines, while remaining within the usual economic accounting methods. With our draft budget, we have shown that it is possible to see another future: a future in which we redistribute from black to green, from rich to poor and from individual to community. If the alternative had a majority in this Chamber, we would redistribute 120 billion over the next four years. kr. It would be financed by sustainable taxes • taxes that reduce inequality, provide a more stable society, provide a healthier society and strengthen the green transition. These are taxes that would both give money in the treasury, but at the same time have derived beneficial effects. At the same time, we would invest in a better society, a more equal society and a greener society. We wanted to redistribute from the individual to the community. We wanted to invest in education and research. We wanted to introduce full transport equality. We wanted to strengthen the SKAT. We wanted to strengthen entrepreneurship. And we wanted to allocate money to culture. We would also redistribute from high to low, from rich to poor in Denmark and in the rest of the world. We wanted lower taxes on work on the lowest incomes. We wanted to phase out the housing tax stop. We wanted to abolish the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule. We'd double the green check. We would provide an extended climate aid of 10 billion. kr. to developing countries over the next four years and we would raise our development aid to 1%. of GNP. We would also redistribute from black to green. We wanted to invest in energy and environmental research. We were gonna tax-free electric cars. We wanted to subsidise heat pumps and geothermals. And we'd have more untouched woods. Our proposal would make profits on both the social, economic and environmental bottom lines, and that is without using the economic space that the government and the Ministry of Finance point out there is. So we do not think it is a problem to point the way to a society in which equality, the green and the community would be given much higher priority. It is essentially a question of priorities and not of a policy of necessity. That is why I hope that the finance laws and overall plans that we will see in the future will focus on three bottom lines instead of one and less on preserving and more on changing, renewing and improving the economy too. If we are to take a closer look at the financial plans presented by the government, there is one thing I would like to focus on, and that is the PSP, which is a cornerstone of the green transition in Denmark. The PRS means that the polluter pays. And it should not be a secret that, in the alternative, we think that the PSO system is a good one, because it is the polluter-pays principle. At the same time, it ensures a stable and secure financing of renewable energy expansion, and the abolition of the PSO would, according to the Climate Council, mean an additional emissions of 3 million tonnes of CO2 which corresponds to between 6 and 7%. of Denmark's total discharge. At the time of the conclusion of the Energy Agreement in 2012, it was expected that the PSO in 2017-2020 would impose a corporate tax of 11,5 billion. kr. The latest estimates from the Danish Parliament's economists show that it will cost the business community approx. 12.6 billion kr. From 2017 to 2020. So that's less than 300 million. kr. more a year. At the same time, it is important to see that since 2012 electricity costs have decreased by DKK 1,300. for a typical household and 9.5 million. kr. for a typical business activity. That's not what we usually hear so much about. We think it is a pity that the government wants to abolish the PSO. And the PRS hasn't been known to be illegal, as the government has been out to say. What the European Commission has said is that it needs to be adjusted, and that could be done, for example. the so-called opening-up scheme, where foreign companies can also apply for aid. That is the model that we know Germany is pursuing, and that is the model that we in the alternative would also like to support. Calculations from the Ecological Council show that Denmark would win net on an opening of the PSP if our neighbouring countries did the same. For me, it is clear that there is an alternative to an alternative that includes a more equal, more Community-oriented and more green future, in other words a sustainable future. Instead, however, we see that the government accepts that we are now dumped into a 13th place. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117104618	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117104623	First of all, just a small comment on the quote about the financial consultant. After all, it is not the case that the parliamentary financial consultant himself has calculated the figures which are fully correctly reported. It is a summary of the information available from the government. It doesn't make the numbers any worse, but it's just for the sake of completeness. I would just like to take the liberty of congratulating the Alternative, which I think we should remember to do, and I will do so because, in the economic plan put forward by the Alternative, I see that it is not foreseen that the housing job scheme will continue when it expires in 2017. I would like to congratulate the alternative for this. I also note that the government has also chosen, in the same way, not to continue with the housing job scheme, which is neither green nor creates jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117104723	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117104724	Well, that's quite correct, sir. Benny Engelbrecht says in relation to the collection of figures, and thanks for the clarification of my comments on the figures in the PSO area. And it is absolutely true that we have not continued the housing job scheme in our draft budget.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117104748	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117104749	Could Mrs. Josephine Fock possibly give me a few extra words on the road? Why has it been taken care of? The reason why I am asking about this is that, at least for the government and for the current Prime Minister, it was crucial that you had this housing job scheme. It has then been chosen to abandon it by the government without really giving it any comment on the road. In fact, I think it might be very interesting whether it is perhaps something the alternative has discussed with the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117104820	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117104822	Thank you. No, it's not something we've discussed with the government. The reason we agreed to that arrangement was that our focus has always been that as much as we could draw the government in a green direction, we would like to. With our own draft budget, we have the opportunity to decide completely what we want, and that is where we have chosen a different strategy in terms of investing massively in the green transition. And there we think that we will get more out of the money in our draft budget than by continuing, if necessary, a green housing job scheme. However, we have been pleased to be part of the green housing job scheme because it has been drawn in as much a green direction as we could now draw the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117104902	Thank you. Thank you to Mrs Josephine Fock. Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117104910	As several parties have already mentioned, a financial law for next year is being negotiated in the strongest possible way among the four parties which form the parliamentary basis of the government. It is not, of course, because I imagine that at the very last moment I can influence the ten parties in their direction. However, I nevertheless believe that the attempt must be made, and I also think it is worth drawing the public's attention to what seemingly will not be addressed in the financial law negotiations currently under way and in which we would at least like to see our position considered again. These are all three areas I would like to mention, which concern the next generation; the generation which the Prime Minister himself addressed in his opening address to the Folketing, which he himself announced was the aim of the government's economic policy, namely, as well as putting hands under our children and grandchildren. Then I would like to ask why it is that the government has decided to cut massively in the field of education in Denmark. That's one of the things you do. in the context of the police settlement, which, together with the Social Democratic Party, has decided to cut 2%. every year in the country's upper secondary education. Together with the reforms made earlier in relation to vocational schools, this actually means cutting up to 15%. of the budgets of the country's secondary schools and of a large number of other upper secondary schools, and also of the vocational schools in two years' time. It's 1 in 10 high school teachers who stand to be fired. What is unpleasant about these savings is that with surgical precision they hit rural areas hardest, hardest out there, fighting to keep young people in youth education. It is the lifeblood of our rural areas that is being cut with a hard hand, but it is also our future. If I am to point to one thing that has defined Denmark as society, defined our development, made it possible for us to be one of the richest, safest, most democratic societies in the world, then it is our educational system. And cutting youth education, universities and research is cutting the branch that we are sitting on ourselves. And I hope that the conciliation parties that are concluding the financial law agreement now will decide on the very severe savings that are currently being made over the education system in Denmark. The second point I would like to make is development aid. I do not think we should look far into the world until we realise that more development aid, more humanitarian aid and not less is needed, at least if the aim is to help the desperate people fleeing climate change, from conflicts, from need to have a decent life in the countries where they come forward. Here, too, the government has cut Danish development aid hard and deep. We hope that at least one of the so-called blue parties will consider putting their hands on Danish development aid. The third point I would like to make today, which is also about the next generation, is, of course, our whole green transition. Here, too, we are radically involved in the ongoing negotiations on the so-called PRS, and there should be no doubt that our message to the government is very simple: stick to the energy settlement, it would be quite wrong to break the tradition we have in this Parliament, just to move around the pieces in a settlement for which there is such broad support; stick to the coastal mills so that Denmark is not perceived as a banana state out there; stick to Denmark's high ambitions in relation to climate policy. It is something that has given us great influence, it is something that has given us glory, but it is also something that has created jobs in tens of thousands in Denmark. So this is something that helps both our children and grandchildren, because we are going against climate change, which is so disastrous, but also because it creates jobs. May I just mention a number that I think is quite fantastic. At the moment, approx. two wind turbines up an hour out around the world. China, the EU, all major regions are now investing more in renewable energy than in any other energy sources. One out of every four windmills set up throughout the world is shipped out from Esbjerg Harbour. I think you could be proud of that. It could actually be said that Denmark has actually succeeded in becoming number one here. There is a strategic effort which has actually succeeded and which creates tens of thousands of jobs throughout Denmark. What about trying to hold on to that leading position instead of having as a stated goal to break it down? That is the message that we are at least trying to get through and which I hope will succeed in getting through when agreements are being made in this area. It was just three points of impact that hopefully make it clear that there is a difference between the attitudes of Danish politics and who really wants to do something for our next generation and who seems to be looking at it a little easier. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117105432	Thank you. Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten for a short remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117105436	Thank you for a very good rapporteur speech. I very much agree with what is said about the cuts in our secondary education. It's a very, very strange way to go. But I'm gonna ask you a little bit about this with the PRS. Of course, I welcome the rapporteur's emphasis on respect for the existing conciliation groups, including the energy conciliation group, and the problem of negotiations which do not involve the whole conciliation group. I am also counting on my understanding that the rapporteur is of the opinion that, of course, no agreement can be reached on PSOs interfering in the current energy conciliation, that is to say that the rapporteur's party will not sign an agreement on PSOs interfering in the current energy conciliation without there having been serious negotiations, not just that we are invited to sign an agreement, but that there have been serious negotiations in the circle of parties in the energy conciliation.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117105533	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117105535	That is our clear view, and we have expressed it at every meeting we have been called for, that as far as the financing part itself is concerned, there is no conciliation. There you can freely agree on a new financing system for the green transition in Denmark, the parties that want to. With regard to the energy conciliation that was concluded in 2012 and the elements of it, all conciliation parties should of course be involved before major changes are made in that conciliation.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117105601	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117105604	I am very pleased with that statement, because it is, after all, about how to finance things. There is a cost side and a revenue side, and both things can thus interfere with the energy settlement, but there is also another thing that can intervene if not directly, so at least indirectly, and that is, of course, that we know that a shift from PSP to, for example. bottom tax will have a consequence in relation to CO2 2 and it may at least be contrary to the spirit of the energy conciliation, if you turn it together in a new way that has the consequence. Will the rapporteur of the Radicals, Mr President? Martin Lidegaard, ensure that, at the same time, initiatives are taken in one way or another to compensate for this?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117105647	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117105649	I can at least confirm that this is what we are fighting for with our beaks and claws. It is true that in the short run there will be a higher CO2 which is why it is not grown in our garden to do so. In the longer term, then, some good things can actually come out of it, because the elle becomes cheaper and if the elle turns green, and that is the whole prerequisite if the elle becomes 100 per cent. renewable, there can be great benefits in getting more electricity into our heating sector, into our transport sector, etc., and then it can actually be a good idea in the longer term to lower the price of electricity and thus also get the PSO away from electricity. But the whole prerequisite for achieving climate change is to make a determined effort to compensate for the increase in CO2 emissions. I can confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117105740	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117105756	A financial law is not just the state's household budget; it is also where we set a direction and show a way as a government, in terms of whether we want to move in a greener direction, a more cooperative direction, a direction in which we take care of each other, including those who are most at risk, those who have lost their jobs. But this draft budget continues last year's marked cuts in welfare, housing benefits for the poorest pensioners and continues the marked cuts in education. Then it is called a re-priority contribution, because then it sounds a little technical, but it is some of the worst savings we have seen in education at a time when we are all talking about what Denmark lacks, of course not unskilled labour, but what Denmark lacks is skilled labour and that young people get a good education. We think the government has failed so violently in relation to that. Once these savings have been implemented, this means that training has been saved 10%. 10% compared to 2015 You can feel it anywhere, and at every educational establishment around the country you shout in arms, and that line continues. Of course, the municipalities must also label the savings knife, so they are also cut by half a billion a year. And this budget bill is also anti-wage, because not only must there be a lower working environment, there must also be less money for the fight against social dumping and cuts in vocational training. The Factory Inspectorate is being dramatically cut. So we get a worse working environment, while people have to work longer and longer. When the Prime Minister presented the 2025 plan, which was temporarily shot to the corner, but which at that time was naturally braided together with the financial bill, he said: Popularly, we tighten the guys on the whole tent so that it can also be in storm and storm. The weather metaphor was the closest thing the Prime Minister ever came to climate change, which we know is going to change everything. With this draft budget and with the direction the government chooses to take in relation to the PRS, in relation to wind turbines, in relation to prioritising the green conversion, I have to say that it is absolutely bizarre. We have just had a Paris Summit a year ago, when the whole world finally agreed to try to do something about the galloping climate change. We already know now that 2016 again sets a record, as previous years have done. The planet is feverish, and every year we see new records in temperature increases. And in one year the government has succeeded in throwing to the corner the leading position that we had right up to the Paris Summit, at the climate summit, has gone the whistle. As the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mr. Pelle Dragsted, also said, we're slided down the ladder. What Denmark has succeeded in earning money from, creating jobs, obtaining international recognition, can therefore, in one year, just throw out the bathing water. After all, the Finance Act is not fully in place, perhaps it will come today or tomorrow, but soon at least. If it is in any way possible to still inspire the government, I would like to finish by outlining some things that the SF would like the government to focus on. Indeed, we can afford more and better welfare, for more public investment, for green conversion and for creating new jobs, both in the private and public sectors, without anti-social cuts, without poverty benefits. SF would like to improve our common welfare, where the Left is, after all, leading to a deterioration when you recognise that there are also more elderly people. We want to invest in education, in particular, and I am very pleased that the rapporteur of the Radicals, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is here. Martin Lidegaard, also stressed the importance of this. Our world will look completely different in just 10-20 years, and the only way to be ready for it is by education and by learning and learning. We will also invest in prevention. There is nothing worse than seeing small children where the educators of a 3-year-old can say that they can almost predict his or her life course. Because we know that exposed children have a huge risk of also becoming vulnerable young people and vulnerable adults. So it is also a huge financial gain; if you only care about the bottom line, the best investment is the investment in our children at all. All children must have a good start in life. It also requires some more educators and adults present in the day institutions, and this requires us to take action against the very least. SF will also put the green transition back on track. We need more, not less, renewable energy and more energy savings to achieve climate targets. But it is not just a matter of achieving objectives. This is in order for Denmark to once again be a leading nation in the green area and for us not to lose all the thousands, the tens of thousands of jobs that are tied up on green technologies, on green businesses. Then we will also have a more equal society. Thus, at a time when equality has become almost an insult and where solidarity in some ears sounds like a 70-year-old, it is possible to say that not only do we want a more equal and more united society for the sake of the people who live here, it also creates the best societies, the richest societies, the most secure and stable societies. That's what all the studies show. So the hope that the Finance Act can end a my better than what we have seen so far is bright green a little longer. So we wait in excitement, also in relation to the PRS. For it has been somewhat a theme today, and that is my final comment: the PRS is, as Mrs Josephine Fock of the Alternative said, the levy where the polluter pays. In the SF, we will not be involved in a scheme where companies just have to let go completely. It would be completely bizarre to say that all taxpayers should contribute to the green transition, that we should all help to pay for it, but that companies should also create incentives to use the energy better just let go completely. Of course they shouldn't. Of course, a PSP solution must ensure that business also contributes.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117110617	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. And then I understand that sir... Benny Engelbrecht wishes to speak in the second round as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117110635	I am taking the floor for the second round because I understand that the Minister for Finance does not wish to speak at this second reading. I understand that as a minister one is in a process of negotiation which may take time, which may be complicated and difficult, but we do have a process here in Parliament, where, of course, there will always be elements of a polemical nature, but there are also elements of this debate here today which are purely factual and also of a more fundamental nature. I would like to highlight two elements that have been mentioned in this debate: on the one hand, that which, among other things, has been mentioned. The Enhedslisten and the SF have mentioned about energy reconciliation and respect for it, on the one hand, the question I mentioned on behalf of the Social Democratic Party about conciliation on the police settlement. I think it is very inappropriate that the Minister responsible should choose not to answer more questions of principle about conciliation in a matter such as this. I note that the rapporteur for the Left has also been present and has taken part in the debate. As a minister, I have also been in this Chamber many times and, of course, know that a minister could have chosen to send up a rapporteur to explain some of these questions, one would have had an interest in answering it honestly. Nor has it been chosen to do so. That is why I just think it is necessary at second reading to point out that it would have been most appropriate for the government to have chosen to address the two issues in particular, particularly when they are of such an essential and fundamental nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117110832	Thank you to the rapporteur. Do more people want to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. It has been proposed that the bill be referred back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117110901	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the legislative proposals go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117111004	The debate is open. And I give the floor to the first rapporteur, Mrs Trine Bramsen, to the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117111021	Radicalisation is a problem in Denmark, unfortunately. There are environments where young people cannot choose the boyfriend they want; where religious heads speak against Danish values; and where free and democratic lives cannot be lived. We must never in misunderstood tolerance towards the different and religious compromise with values that we have spent centuries building here in Denmark. On the contrary, we in the Social Democratic Party believe that it is our duty to ensure that everyone who lives and lives in Denmark can grow up without social control and without medieval religious regimes. The proposal here is a co-examination of two legislative proposals, both of which are part of the implementation of the agreement on religious preachers, which seeks to undermine Danish laws and values and support parallel legal perceptions. This is the agreement reached by a wide range of parties before the summer. The draft law proposes that the granting of residence permits to religious ministers, etc. In future, the person concerned must be required to sign a declaration of promise to comply with Danish legislation in his role as a religious minister. This is in order to ensure that we do not get preachers into the country calling for the killing of Jews or homosexuals, inciting young people to go to Syria, for example, to join terrorist organisations or stone women. And we have actually seen examples of this. It may not solve all problems, but we signal with the promise that the prerequisite for being in Denmark is that Danish values, democratic values and our legislation are respected. The proposal ensures that, if an extension is to be obtained, it will also be conditional upon the alien having completed a course on Danish family law within six months if he or she takes marriages. At the same time, the draft law requires that in future the extension of a residence permit granted to religious ministers should also be subject to the completion of this compulsory course. Are these reasonable demands? This is what we in the Social Democratic Party mean, not least because we also demand dignity for Danish priests who work in the church. That is why it is so reasonable to think that there are religious preachers who come to this country with staggered and undemocratic values and spread them to those who live and live in Denmark and therefore to expect us as a society to support them. As I said, L 30, which is also part of what we are discussing here, translates into that part of the agreement which concerns the matters covered by the marriage law and there are three amendments. That part of my speech has been contributed by our church rapporteur, Karen J. Klint. I have promised her to read her words as part of the treatment here: For many years in the church we have had an unlawful decorum requirement, a requirement of dignity, for the priests of the church according to their work. Of course, a similar decorum requirement should also apply to the formal ministers of other religions in their corresponding activities. Thus, the dignity of all formal religious ministers in their work and teachings is treated equally. This law is not a boycott of the constitutionally protected freedom of religion or freedom of expression. The Constitution already ruled in 1849 in Paragraph 67 - and I quote: "Citizens have the right to unite in society in order to worship God in the way that accords with their beliefs, but nothing is taught or done that is contrary to morals or public order. In relation to the supervision and control of the decorum requirement, it does not change the content from today, but it will now apply to everyone. The draft law mentions possible situations in which a decorum case could be raised in order to revoke an otherwise granted marriage authorisation. Any withdrawal will not have any effect on the recognition or approval of the religion in question, but will be personal to the individual priest or preacher in relation to whether he or she may perform valid marriages in his or her office. I should also like to inform you that Karen J. Klint, in the Committee on Churches, will address the problem of religious blessings of relationships that intend to circumvent the rules on marriages with civil validity. We consider it important in the Social Democratic Party that there should be no cheating on the weight or on the altar, one might say a little popularly, and no one should be told that they are married without being married. In Denmark we do not have religious marriages. Marriage in this country must have civil validity with the same rules for both spouses, and if a religious minister has obtained a right of marriage, this right must be implemented in accordance with the requirements and rules of the marriage law. A mandatory course is also proposed in Danish family law, freedom and popular rule for religious ministers outside the church. That is also what I mentioned myself in my speech, and it has to be seen in the context of the L 50 on amendments to the Aliens Act on mandatory course to obtain preacher status. Secondly, L 30 points out that at the end of the course a promise must be signed to comply with the country's laws. During the consultation phase, there was an amendment which prevented misunderstandings that the State would regulate the service itself, and that, of course, is not the purpose. So Karen J. Klint has asked that we thank the Minister for listening to this hearing response. L 30 is to be dealt with in the Committee on Churches and there is no doubt that it is in good hands in relation to both answers and possible consultations, if there is anything that needs to be clarified. In those words, both the words of Karen J. Klint and the words of Karen J. Klint, I must inform you that we in the Social Democratic Party support the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117111729	Thank you. There is, for the time being, one brief comment, and that is from Mr Seligman. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117111735	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I agree, as my own rapporteur has said, that it is very good to make demands, for example. gives someone a public authority task, and that is what is happening here. Of course, it is also important that, in relation to the demands that are then made, there is parallelism in relation to the different religions and the church of the people. So my question is really: does the rapporteur think that, for example, a Muslim preacher who argues, with reference to the words of the Koran, that polygamy, i.e. polygamy, should be allowed, will be able to serve as a preacher, or will it be subject to the decorum requirement, so that it will not be possible to argue in public, in the mosque or in worldly contexts for such a view?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117111825	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117111827	There we are actually getting into another legislative proposal in the field of justice, which we discussed here in Parliament last week and which is about what we must call for. It is very clear that one can read religious writings, but one must not call in the religious space for things that are illegal under Danish law. So I really think it has been dealt with in another legislative proposal that we discussed in this Chamber last week, but which has nothing to do with this.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117111858	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117111900	Now we are discussing a bill that is about taking the wedding authority from preachers who have previously been awarded it, and that is on that occasion I ask. And it's not just cases where these expressions are spoken in the mosque... it could also be outside. But let's keep the mosque out of it. The question is: if, for example, we are going to have to do something about it. The Baptist Church or others argue in favour of multi-wifehood in public, would it be a breach of these decorum rules, so that the Church Ministry can deprive the marriage authority? It is of course very important that we know what this is all about, because it is, after all, about the legal certainty of citizens, so that they know what is inside and outside the borders.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117111950	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117111952	But it is very clear in the second legislative proposal before us in this Chamber that if one acts as a religious minister, if it is assessed as part of a religious training situation, it will be illegal in the future and if one breaks the law, it is related to this, and then one cannot meet the dignity requirements either.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117112012	The next question is Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117112017	I would like to ask whether Mrs Trine Bramsen believes that the Muslim minister who publicly states that he will not marry divorced lives up to the decorum requirement, as described in the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117112038	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117112041	What is being proposed is compliance with the legislation. You can have a personal opinion about who you want to marry and who you don't want to marry, and so there are Danish priests who do. What is proposed in this is that you comply with Danish legislation and that you do not call for anything that is illegal, according to Danish legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117112059	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117112104	When you read the bill, you can see that the decorum requirement is considerably wider than what the rapporteur says when she stands on the floor of the Parliament. But I have to understand that the rapporteur believes that it is not contrary to the decorum requirement in the sense of the bill if a Muslim minister publicly states that he will not marry a divorce. Is that how it's supposed to be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117112129	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117112131	This is basically about preachers calling for the killing of Jews, the killing of homosexuals, the stoning of women, something that is illegal under Danish law, or which is considered to be completely unworthy and contrary to human rights, for example, that is, cannot serve as preachers.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117112155	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next speaker is Mr. Christian Langballe as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117112205	Thank you. The broadcast The mosques behind the veil revealed to everyone what many of us well knew, namely that there are radical imams who wish they could transform the Danish social order into something similar to Saudi Arabia or Iran. Understand who can. The imams in question called, inter alia, for: to stoning women and to follow other darkened provisions laid down by the Sharia Law and the Koran. One is wrong if one thinks that this kind of Islamism is merely an expression of religious conviction. No, it very much expresses a militant radical political conviction. In other words, there is no distinction between religion and politics. And the radical Islamist is only satisfied when, for example, Denmark and ultimately the whole world are politically organized according to the rules of the Koran and Sharia. It is clear that imams who subscribe to this darkened political world view are helping to promote the creation of parallel societies, to provoke aggressive opposition to the existing society and gross oppression of women, etc. Is it any coincidence that some of the people who had their way in the Grimhøjmosque subsequently went down to fight with the Islamic State to create a caliphate in Syria? I don't think so. These were the imams we had in mind when we sat down at the negotiating table and subsequently made a political agreement, of which this part is just a corner. Now it is the case that every piece of legislation must be general and that is why the bill came to be about religious preachers, but there is certainly no doubt about who I had in mind. L 30 introduces the so-called decorum requirement or dignity requirement, which means that we must not behave or act in a way that makes a person unworthy of exercising public authority. The decorum requirement is already known, for ordinary parish priests in the church are covered by it. If, for example, I... as a parish priest in a Sunday sermon called for the stoning of women or other punishable or morally reprehensible, I would undoubtedly be suspended by my bishop on the basis of a decorum requirement and probably lose my office. Now this requirement is extended from just applying to parish priests as such in the public church to all religious ministers. In this connection, a provision is hereby introduced to the effect that preachers who violate the decorum requirement, the requirement of dignity, may lose the wedding authority. All in all, good and sensible, that is the way it should be. It is also introduced for the ministers of the respective religions who want marriage authority, that they take a compulsory course in family law, freedom and popular rule. It is in this context that there is an overlap between L 30 and L 50, which we co-operate, since L 50 also deals with this compulsory course, but here for foreign publishers. In connection with the course, you have to sign a declaration that you want to comply with Danish legislation. All in all, good initiatives that basically do not add anything new, in relation to what we know of rules for ordinary parish priests, but simply apply these provisions to everyone. There will be those who believe that we are hitting freedom of religion. It's incredibly hard for me to see. In Article 67 of the Constitution, which deals precisely with freedom of religion, the extensive freedom of religion that we have in Denmark is limited for reasons of morality and public order. It is precisely this public order that the legislative proposals we are debating will defend by introducing a decorum requirement for everyone. The aim of introducing this requirement is, for our part, to hit the imams who preach hatred against Danish society and everything that Denmark stands for. Imams occupy a special position and speak with very great authority in the Islamic environments, and therefore their responsibilities are increased if they make calls to commit criminal offences. It is an aggravating fact that they are imams, just as it is an aggravating circumstance if a priest in a Sunday sermon calls for breaking the law. The two legislative proposals in question are perfectly reasonable. In other words, we would like to see more austerity in this area, but this is a step in the right direction. So we are satisfied with the result we have achieved. We'd like more, but it's gonna have to come later. DF votes in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117112756	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment for the time being. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117112802	Thank you. I fully share the criticism of these crazy views put forward in this documentary, but we are now discussing the specific legislative proposal here. The rapporteur has a great deal to say about this, if we are calling for illegal acts, and I think it is very, very firm and reasonable that, if a public authority has been granted and calls for illegal acts, the public authority should be deprived of its responsibilities. But this proposal, as I understand it, is something more far-reaching than that. After all, it is a question of dignity and what is dignity, as we know, is a relatively subjective assessment, so I would really just like to hear what the rapporteur's subjective assessment is. If a Witness who has been given authority to marry, e.g. argues for the death penalty, it could be with reference to Exodus, or it could be with reference to the Koran or reference to other religious writings, would it be contrary to the decorum requirement?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117112903	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117112906	This is a small corner, which means that it spreads into something bigger, where we then treat this relatively small part, and there will be a difference between reading up a religious text where there are different things in it and directly encouraging it. One could imagine something with the right of reproof, and if the priest then subsequently says: Go home and beat your children, then it will be punishable because it will be an invitation to break the law. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117112944	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117112949	I'm kind of back in on that. If this is a direct call for illegality, I think it is fair enough, but what makes it a little difficult to assess this proposal is that it is wider than that. I can also give another example: we have a religion, a Mormon church that calls itself Fundamentalist Church of Jesus Christ of Laughter-Day Saints, and so it is based on a dogma that women should be subject to men and that a man for salvation should be married to at least three women. Would a Witness of this religion who argues in public for this be contrary to the decorum rules and thus be deprived of his authority to marry? When I ask, it is because we are adopting legislation in here that will have consequences for some citizens of society, and then it is quite important to know when to cross the border. So would this be against the decorum rules?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117113038	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117113042	If it happens in connection with religious training that you call for bigami, that is, bigami is forbidden, isn't it? Of course. I think that's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117113057	Sir. Rune Lund next asks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117113110	I would like to ask the rapporteur whether a Muslim preacher, an imam who publicly states that he does not want to marry divorced persons, meets the decorum requirement, as described in the bill, or whether the imam does not meet the decorum requirement as described in the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117113133	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117113137	So, I would like to say now, also in relation to the last question I was asked: if a priest calls for bigami, the person concerned will also be called for an interview, and then you have to do what you think is necessary. With regard to divorce, there is a freedom clause in the general article: "What is it called? So it is not subject to the decorum requirement, that is to say, in practice, in relation to the rules applicable to the church. That is clear enough, and I am in favour of the decorum requirement following the ordinary morals that are in the society of that gives itself. That's the way it's always gonna be. But it's just that if you follow the standard decorum requirement, clergymen can say no to divorce for reasons of conscience.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117113231	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117113236	Is the answer to that question to be understood as meaning that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party also believes that if a Muslim minister, an imam, has the same view, that is that he does not want to marry a divorce, it is not contrary to the decorum requirement, as stated in this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117113254	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117113257	No, it doesn't matter. So this law applies widely to all publishers... that's clear enough. There is no difference in legislation. Whether you are a Muslim or a priest in the public church or belong to a free church community, etc., the same rules apply clearly.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117113315	The next question is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117113321	Well, the last thing here was interesting, because what we're trying to figure out and get some clarity about is, of course, what this decorum requirement really includes, and whether it's the same thing that applies to people in the folk church and others who have marriage competence. Let me take a third example here: will a Muslim minister, who publicly states that he will often be unwilling to accept divorce, live up to the decorum requirement?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117113359	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117113402	Well, I think it's relatively simple. There is a right at home, in relation to divorce, and that right must be respected by religious ministers. They may well say that they are not themselves in favour of it, but if they are trying to claim or try to maintain someone in a marriage that does not want to be in a marriage, by telling them that they cannot divorce, then it is, I think, a violation of what applies in ordinary law that is clear. You may well have an opinion that you don't like divorce, but that's just something else in terms of what ordinary legislation is like.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117113442	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117113445	It is clear that one must distinguish between a preacher who tries to convince someone that divorce is not possible in Denmark, and then the attitude towards divorce. That's the attitude I'm asking about divorce. Do you meet the decorum requirement if you have the attitude and say that divorce is not acceptable?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117113511	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117113514	Well, of course you do. Well, you can have an attitude about it. You and I can have that, yes, I'm sorry, but we can each have that in terms of whether we like divorce or not. That's an honest case. Surely no one would want to go in to legislate about that. Something else is if you say in religious training that divorce is forbidden. Well, there's a difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117113540	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Carl Holst, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117113553	As you know, the two legislative proposals that are now being examined are naturally in line with the consensus paper adopted at the end of May, where the starting point was what we do about religious preachers of hatred. The two previous rapporteurs have so well explained the content of the two legislative proposals, so I will refrain from doing so, but I would point out that the value approach to this is how to put an end to those living in a parallel society. In this case, it is a parallel society where it is the religious rules that must govern what laws the religious members must live by. That is why we are talking about dignity requirements, that is why we are talking about compulsory course in Danish family law, freedom and popular rule as a prerequisite for a marriage authorisation, that is why we are talking about promise declaration. In short, we want to ensure that western and thus Danish values are respected in Denmark. This is not about restricting freedom of expression or religious freedom in the broad sense. Against this background, the Left supports the two legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117113723	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117113727	Thank you, President. It is precisely the last thing here that is really important, I think, for us to take a position on this proposal, because it is a delicate balance we are talking about. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur about this decorum requirement and about statements of opinion that we will regard as problematic. It could be, for example, that one. I wouldn't mind hitting his wife. Let us now say that they are expressed not in a religious context, but at a public meeting, in a private context, during an interview with a journalist or other, will such views, not calls for violence, but opinions that it was okay to beat his wife, then bring one against the decorum requirement?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117113815	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117113819	No, that is an attitude, and that is why I made it very clear that it is in relation to the religious forum, because it is the ones we want to hit, that is, those who live in a parallel society and who believe and are trained and informed that you should not comply with Danish legislation, but what you are being religiously preached.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117113840	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117113842	As I have mentioned before, I think that legislation is quite simple. If it had now been written in the bill that the decorum requirement included compliance with Danish law and was not allowed to call for a breach of Danish law, then this proposal was easy to take a position on. But what makes it a little complicated for us, and we have not determined where we end up, is that it is so broadly worded, so it becomes unclear what is covered by the decorum requirement and where you are covered by the decorum requirement, and that is why we are asking about these things. That is why I would also like to ask the rapporteur on the Left something. Would a preacher, such as: Says that the person is opposed to divorce and refuses to marry divorced women regardless of, for example. are divorced because they have been subjected to serious violence by their former spouse, are they subject to the decorum requirement?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117113936	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117113941	No.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117113943	Thank you to the rapporteur. That was a brief and clear answer. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. It says here that the next rapporteur is Mr. Rune Lund, but I understand it's Mr. Lund. Pelle Dragsted, rapporteur for the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117114002	As it is a co-operation of something in the territory of the church minister and in the territory of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I have been given the honour of giving our rapporteur's speech. These two proposals, that is, L 30 and L 50, are basically about going in and making some regulation of religions, on the one hand, in connection with the granting of special rights in connection with obtaining a residence permit, where this is the case today, that it is relatively easy, as a religious minister, to obtain a residence permit and, on the other hand, in connection with exercising a public authority mandate, that is to say the marriage authorisation. The Enhedslisten is what I might call an ultra-secular party, and for a party like us, which is both very secular and perhaps often also religiously critical, it is, as a starting point, something that we are positive about. We think it is quite right and proper that, when granting special rights based on the fact that some are religious ministers, and especially when awarding private religions a public authority, we should make demands. In fact, we would like to go further. Basically, we do not think that the authority that is about dedicating people should be passed on to the church of the people or to private religions. It should be a public task because it is a public authority. It has implications for a wide range of civil matters relating to inheritance, etc. And then you can keep all the rituals you want. So if it were up to us, the bourgeois part of the ceremony was something that was going on up at City Hall. One could also easily discuss the question of whether this particularly easy access to religious preaching stays should be qualified. There may be religions that find it very difficult to find preachers if they do not have that opportunity, but there may be religions that do not. So we really wanted to go much further than is proposed in these two proposals, and we think that would be the best way to solve this problem, at least in terms of secular values. But, of course, we as a party must also deal with the way things are. And today it is the case that we pass on this authority of marriage to both the public church and the private religions. As I said, we feel that in that case it is actually okay to make demands, it is okay to regulate. It is no right for these religions to be able to make a civil marriage. This is something we decide to give, and it applies to both the church and the other religions, and therefore it is okay that some demands and expectations follow. What is then important to us and which makes us in doubt whether or not we can support this proposal, and perhaps my questions have also been heard, is whether the demands that are then made are universal, so that there is parallelism between the demands we make of the clergy of the people's church and the demands we make of the preachers of the other religions. This is the one which is really important to us and which we hope to clarify in the course of this process. We cannot quite compare this here, as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party says, because the decorum requirement in the people's church is a right of employment, and it is therefore a question of linking it to the award of a public authority. So there are two slightly different situations. The Decorum requirement in the Danish Parliament is an apology, Parliament, it might be a good idea with a decorum requirement in the Danish Parliament; I would probably fall for it myself with all the gang I have come over time for injury to come up here from the decorum requirement in the folk church is a rather loose and undefined concept, and that is why we need to clarify during the committee process that there is the parallelity, because there must of course be. There is basically freedom of religion and equal treatment as far as possible, because we do not have equal treatment. We have a church. We are the ones who believe that we should not be in the form we have today, but we do. So there's no equal treatment, but at least there's a parallelism in this. The second, which is very, very important to us, is that there is no arbitrariness. Well, it's the Church Department, as I understand it, to assess whether this decorum requirement has been met. It is really important that it is not that it is not with all due respect for the current church minister's personal preferences of individual church ministers for what is now decent and dignified that will determine it here, but that these are actually clear principles. It could, for example, be done. be that one called for breaking the law or breaking the law or things like that. I am therefore a little concerned about some of the wordings in the draft law and in the comments. I don't think that's clear. And it is also important from the point of view of legal certainty that as a citizen, whether you are a Muslim or a Jehovah's Witness or anything else, you know what you have to do; know when you are stepping on the wrong side of the border so that you lose your marriage authorisation. So that's what we're going to go for, whether this proposal is finally adopted or not. Whether we support it or not, we will keep a close eye on how this is being used. Because it must not be used to go after certain religions in a way that is not used against others. It must not create arbitrariness which means that citizens simply have no idea what they have to deal with. We will take a position during the committee procedure before the third reading on this, we think, rather difficult issues where different principles meet one another in some way.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117114644	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Bock as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117114651	Thank you. We are cooperating today with L 50 and L 30, and this is due to the fact that, following the very intense debate that the documentary broadcast has given rise to, we have found that we simply need to have a better overview and more control of what is actually going on in Denmark, also in religious contexts. On the one hand, the legislation must be complied with, and on the other hand, there are therefore essential and fundamental values at stake. The draft law deals, inter alia, with: the so-called decorum requirement, which is, after all, a requirement of dignity, which is already fully known by priests in the Danish National Church. The requirement is now legalized, and it must include all publishers in approved religions. This is a legal state already in force, and there are no problems in that way. Of course, when the clergy of the church can live with the decorum requirement, so can everyone else. There is in no way a restriction on freedom of religion or freedom of expression, and it is also essential that a violation of the decorum requirement has consequences only for the minister concerned, but not for the religious community as a whole, just as it does for the clergy of the people's church. So, for example, when... The Enhedslisten's rapporteur may be concerned about the issue of equal treatment, and whether or not we are looking for specific groups, etc., I must say that this is actually an unequal treatment today, since the decorum requirement applies to the clergy of the people's church, but not to other preachers. So that is the way to achieve greater equality. After all, it is a principle that all parties in the Danish Parliament are celebrating, and I think that the Enhedslisten, which is now in the think box, should bear in mind whether to be in or not, that is to say that this is actually a question of equality. In addition, a mandatory course in Danish family law, freedom and popular rule is being introduced for religious ministers outside the public church who want this wedding authority. It is, of course, primarily intended in relation to people who come from. For Danish church priests have already attended the pastoral seminary, and they are fully familiar with these things, and it will also be possible for publishers coming from outside and who can prove in writing that they have knowledge of Danish family law, to avoid having to go through this course. The course lasts 2 days. So it is to be overlooked, and we also fully support, that the ministers who have to go through the course have to pay to go through it themselves. Finally, we do not think it is unreasonable that people who have a marriage authority in Denmark should also have knowledge of the law about it, the law that applies in Danish society. The final part is that the Witnesses who go through this 2-day course must sign a declaration that they want to comply with Danish law. It is very, very difficult for us in the Liberal Alliance to see that this is an unreasonable demand. In fact, I would like to say at the edge of it that I think we should actually consider whether people who acquire Danish citizenship should not sign the Danish constitution. It does something to people when you sign papers, and we think it's a good way to make it known that the religious preachers who go through this course and get the right to marry people with legal validity in Denmark sign a declaration that they will comply with Danish law. So all in all, we think that these are good and sensible measures. That is common sense, and it is a legal act that already exists in some areas, and that is why Liberal Alliance L 30 and L 50 support.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117115051	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Josephine Fock as rapporteur for the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117115105	Thank you. In the alternative, we are also immediately in favour of the Minister's proposal to equate religious ministers outside the church on a number of points. In fact, in relation to the introduction of the decorum requirement, we see it as a way of introducing equal treatment. So, the clergy of the people's church are subject to a decorum requirement, and in this way we ensure that we also respect other beliefs and thus equate them. We are, as a starting point, positive about this. I would like to see and I can hear that Enhedslisten is of the same opinion in the committee work to pursue what exactly is covered by it and especially when it can be withdrawn. I think that is missing from the comments on the draft law, that is to say to make it clear when you exceed the limit. Because, in relation to the questions that have been put very well by the Enhedslisten, as to what happens, if one says one thing or thinks the other, or expresses something publicly or expresses something in his preaching, it is, as I interpret the Basic Law, that there is freedom of religion in relation to preaching what one wants, unless one calls for unlawfulness. That is why I would like to see these matters clarified in the committee's work. On behalf of the Alternative, I also think it is good to have a two-day course in family law and so on. We know that, among other things. is also one of the lessons taught by clergymen at the pastoral seminary during the six months it takes place. And what I would like to see was if we could reconsider the fact that it is not self-financed, because at the pastoral seminar it is SU-funded. I really think that with this bill we are trying to achieve equality in this area and parallelism in this area is important to us, and that is why the alternative will also table an amendment in relation to the fact that it can be financed by the public sector. For we have an interest that other religious ministers besides the clergy of the church are aware of how Danish society and family law work. The last point, and I have mentioned it before, is that it is important for us to have equality in all areas, and it is therefore of course important for me to stress here from the platform that it applies to all religions, and that is what the bill says. And that is why, as a starting point, we support it, but with the detailed questions that I have also asked from the platform. I hope that the Minister can come a little closer to that in his speech here from the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117115444	Thank you. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117115450	This is a detail, but it is only to clarify it: the course we have taken at the pastoral seminary is actually paid by the church of the people. Well, that's the thing. And in this way, that course is somehow self-funded, isn't it? So I actually think that there is a parallelity in this way in relation to the fact that it is self-funded. Then the faith communities can decide whether or not to pay for their religious preachers. There would be a good idea in that, but that is something that faith communities must take care of internally.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117115528	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117115532	Thank you for that question. In this particular case, I refer to the hearing answer that has come from Roskilde University, which Mrs Lisbet Christoffersen, a professor of law, religion and society, has written, and she writes at least in her hearing answer: Equal treatment in terms of payment for the education of priests at the pastoral seminary does not pay, but receives SU.• And that is what I referred to in my rapporteur's speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117115555	Does Christian Langballe want to follow it up? Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117115559	It's just to split it up a little, because it's true that if you're in education, you're receiving SU. That is, in general terms, the case. But the course itself, that is, the course you receive, is paid for by the church, because the whole pastoral seminary part is, so to speak, part of the church.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117115615	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117115618	Thank you. I don't know if we're gonna make this a dispute about words. So, the short part of the length is that the student does not pay it himself.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117115626	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. Lunch break is taking place. The sitting will resume at 1 p.m. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117125950	The sitting is resumed. We shall continue the first reading of the legislative proposals No. L 30 and L 50, and the next rapporteur is Mrs Ida Auken as rapporteur for the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117130004	Thank you very much. Some have probably guessed that our rapporteur cannot be present, but I will tell you what the Radical Left's position is, and it is that one should of course make demands on religious preachers. This is what we do as a church of the people, and it is therefore also appropriate to make demands on other religions. But we also agree with both the Enhedslisten and the alternative that the demands that are highlighted here are not clear enough. So if you have to make demands, they have to be equal for everyone. They must be clear and they must not be arbitrary, and we are not convinced that they are in L 30. That is why we are waiting for the committee procedure and the answer to it before deciding whether or not we can vote in favour of L 30. In relation to L 50, it is fine with requirements to comply with Danish law, and it is good with demands for a course in family law, and that part we support.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117130104	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. I do not see the SF rapporteur in the Chamber. That is why we move on to the Conservative rapporteur, Mr President. Naser Khader... I now see that the SF's rapporteur is heading into the Chamber and therefore the next honourable speaker will be Mr. Naser Khader. Holger K. Nielsen as rapporteur for the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117130132	After all, it is a good thing that the meetings start exactly and it can be done quickly with rapporteurs before me. It is always a rather difficult matter when the parliament begins to regulate religions and religious life. That is also the reason for some of the comments made here from the platform and also in some of the hearings that have been made. But the background to this is also pretty special and also serious. It is, of course, that we can see radicalisation in certain environments, in the direction of Islamism becoming an ideology that several people swear to, and this will have radical consequences, including for the young people concerned. We also know that more imams and the way these things are handled in mosques have an impact on the young people who get caught up in these radical Islamic ideas. So I think this is a problem we need to address. Because this is something that is going to affect our entire society, and that is why we have to deal with it, however difficult it may be for the Folketing to go in and regulate in relation to religions etc. I think that what has been achieved in the agreements that have been made, and also in the legislative proposals that are here, is borne by what I would call common sense. It is a question of putting this so-called decorum requirement, by the way, a new expression that I had never heard of before I prepared for this bill. But you always get smarter sitting in the Folketing, and that's nice. But it is a demand for dignity for preachers, a requirement also for priests in the church and, moreover, also for civil servants. As far as I understand, it has been part of the concept of civil servant and is part of the right of appointment that you have this decorum requirement. It is then also transferred to Witnesses outside the church. So, as I understand it, there is parallelism with the priests in the church. In this sense, I find it hard to see that this is very dramatic. It's obvious that you can get in some situations where you need to define more precisely what it means to violate this decorum requirement. That is also what has been part of the debate in the past. But it is true that there will always be a certain amount of discretion. This is not something that can be legislated for. That's why you have that concept of decorum. It is such a concept of dignity with which there is some discretion. But it is also clear that the estimates to be made may differ from one country to another, and I think that is also the case in the church today; I think the bishops estimate differently according to the rigid nature of the matter, and that will be the case. But it can't just be in thin air. It can't just be a coincidence what it's like to estimate. I understand that there is such a practice that is the starting point for the way in which it is assessed here and that the bishops must also assess it. And it may be very useful to clarify it in some way in the report for this bill, so that you are not on completely rocking ground, in relation to what this actually means in practice. I understand that there is no difference between the situation of the priests in the church. But let's make this clear if it can create greater clarity and security about these things. As regards those demands for training in family law and those statements, we also think that is sensible and natural. We do not see that there is anything wrong with the fact that if you have a marriage authority, you must also know about Danish family law and be able to handle it in a sensible way. So, even if it is of course a boring background, we are discussing it here, and even if you have to be careful when you go into this area; you always have to be so, I think it makes sense that you have arrived at this, and that is why we support the legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117130647	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it's mr. Naser Khader as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117130658	In the Conservative People's Party, we are basically pleased that we have agreed on an agreement that directs initiatives against those who seek to undermine religious freedom, Danish laws and democratic values. It is important to tighten the legs of the hate preachers that support parallel legal perceptions and intolerance. I would like to congratulate the Minister for Church Affairs on the attached remarks to L 30. It is a problem with the bill that it has been at risk of becoming rubber legislation as it was formulated. How broad can the Danish values be interpreted? The legislation must be aimed at the preachers of hatred. It should not be so widely interpreted that we are going to be bothering other religions that for hundreds of years have contributed positively to this society. Therefore, the comments must ensure that we do not force anyone to marry people of the same sex if you do not want to do so I do not agree, but you must have that opportunity and that ordinary Christian electoral and free congregations should not be unduly disturbed by the legislation. The comments have elucidated some of the uncertainties that have been raised in the proposal in the past. We hope that the examination of the legislative proposal will continue to help to clarify the impact of the legislative proposal. A new government must not be able to interpret the law in such a way that marriage authorisation is taken from Jews, Catholics and Christian free churches who have practiced their rituals for many, many years without it having been a problem. One of the clarifications we welcome is, for example, the comments on section 1, page 12. Here it is made clear that it is not possible for a religious minister to be able to make a marriage with civil validity without the consent of both parties. Similarly on page 8: Here it is stated that the legislation should not affect religions that have had a culture and religious practice that has existed well in Denmark for millennia. We could have gone beyond this legislation, but it is necessary legislation because we have seen examples of Islamist parallel societies in Denmark that undermine our democracy. It is the kind of society that the legislation should strike. We must ensure a sensible interpretation of the Constitution's paragraph on freedom of association. There is a need to protect as far as possible the peaceful religious practices that exist in approved religions, even if some believe that they are strange and unanswered. On the course in Danish family law, we believe that a little softening can be made in who can be exempted from taking the course. The bill states that one can obtain exemption from the course in family law, freedom and government if the person concerned has completed teaching at the Pastoral Seminary or completed a Danish education as a social worker or doctor, but it is also assumed that only exceptionally is exemption from attending the course. We believe that more exemptions should be made from the course, for example. if the person concerned can prove that he or she does not need the course. This could be due to another relevant education, particularly relevant education or many years of relevant working life. On the course in Danish family law, we also believe that it is inappropriate that a Danish Baptist minister who was born and raised in Denmark, with education and a long professional life behind him, should take a course with a hate preacher who has just flown in from the Middle East. A different option than exemption could be that Danish citizens can take the course at the Pastoral Seminary. But let us look at the possibilities in committee. This is certainly a point that we are very aware of. We are also fundamentally pleased with the draft law amending the law on foreigners. It is reasonable that foreign religious ministers should sign a vow and be taught family law. This applies to both a hate preacher from the Middle East and a Baptist from Texas, as both are new in Danish society. We look forward to the committee reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117131147	Thank you for the floor. For the time being, Mr President, there is one brief comment. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117131152	If I was reassured by the speeches of several of the other rapporteurs, I have to say frankly that I am very concerned about Mr Tugendhat's report. Naser Khader's speech as rapporteur. Because if I didn't hear much wrong, Mr. Naser Khader, that this law was directed at a particular religion, it was Imams, who are hate preachers, but that it was finally not allowed to hit other religions. So, hopefully, we are adopting legislation that applies equally to everyone and where it is the conduct of each religion, or that each minister, marriage courtesy, has, and not whether it is a religion that has been 200, 500, 800 or 3 years in Denmark that decides it here. So can the rapporteur clarify whether this is a decorum requirement, which must apply to everyone, that is, the same rules apply to a Baptist, to Jehovah's Witnesses, to a priest in the Father's House and to an imam in the Grimmhøjmoskeen?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117131258	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117131259	I hope the rapporteur heard the last of what I said. This applies to a hate preacher from the Middle East and a Baptist from Texas, both new in Denmark. So it's a law that applies to all hate preachers. But let us be honest with each other. The background to this is what we have seen in TV 2 broadcasts with hate preachers that undermine Danish religious freedom and Danish democracy. However, we cannot make special legislation that only covers them, and that is why we are making general legislation. That's what we did with the 24-year rule. We made legislation that hit a lot of people who had nothing to do with it in order to hit those who were exposed to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117131344	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117131345	No, thank God we can't make special legislation. It is, of course, a complete basic element of democracy that legislation applies to everyone on an equal footing, otherwise we have stopped defending our democratic values, and that is what we are saying we will do with this proposal. I hope that in his speech the Minister will make it very clear that this is not the persecution of a particular religion. It may well be that we have seen some recent events, and I am in complete agreement with that. It is not the case that we do not have other examples in Denmark's history, even in recent history, in Christian free congregations, which have acted in ways that are contrary to much of what I understand by Danish decency, dignity and tolerance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117131430	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117131431	This is not about setting up a particular religion. I have not said at any time the Muslim religion, I have said "hate preachers," which is a small part of being a Muslim in Denmark. We are all aware that they are the main problem. You can find Christian priests and others who are sometimes quite wrong, but the starting point for this is what we saw in the TV 2 broadcasts, where they behind the veil said and did a lot of terrible things that we could not come for under current legislation. That's why we're doing all this. I would have liked to go beyond that, but the starting point was that we have a parallel society characterised by hate preachers trying to undermine our democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117131526	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. And then I give the floor to the church minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117131534	Thank you, President. What we are discussing today has its origins in what, in the remarks on page 3 at the bottom left, is called the pre-constitutional custom of law, which is that the Minister, with the queen's signature, can recognise religions outside the church and give them the authority to marry. It has so far been the case that once the marriage authorisation has been granted, it has been granted forever, and that is why the government asked the Committee of the Faithful Communities with the former Ombudsman Hans Gammeltoft-Hansen in the lead if we could change this old custom of law so that we can now also have the authority to marry. And then it is that the committee has proposed that we should be linked to the so-called decorum requirement or dignity requirement which already applies to the clergy and civil servants of the people's church, and I am glad that a broad majority has accepted that. One may wonder why the law of marriage does not already have rules on decorum requirements for publishers outside the church when they have it for preachers within the church. But there has not been, and therefore there have been no rules as to what should happen if you do not meet the decorum requirement that preach outside the church. After all, it is about people who have been equipped with a public authority, and the wedding that you are doing has civil validity, just as when the church priest is going on. And so it is quite logical to regulate the decorum requirement, so it applies to both types of Witnesses. Then it says on page 5, and I would like to draw Mrs Ida Auken's attention to this: "This will make it clear that there is a decorum requirement for priests, imams and others. with the authorisation of marriage, and it is made clear that failure to comply with the decorum requirement is important both in relation to the award and revocation of the marriage authorisation. ▪ One might then ask whether it is the case that in order to have the marriage authorization taken away, one must then have lost the respect and confidence. But it's not like that. It is sufficient for the religious minister to have acted or behaved in such a way as to take into account the esteem and confidence required by the position, such as: serious criminal offences, as described in the comments on page 5, right column. And as it says, it is the case that the practice developed over time regarding decorum requirements in relation to the clergy of the people's church is linked. In other words, the pre-constitutional custom to which I referred. I do not think there is any arbitrariness, and I believe that the draft law is quite clear in itself. But we do have the committee procedure so that questions of doubt can be resolved, and that is why, of course, I call on both Mr Van der Klaauw and Mr Van der Klaauw to do so. Pelle Dragsted and Mrs Ida Auken and others. to ask questions about the ambiguities they might see in the draft law. The point of both laws is, of course, as Mr. Naser Khader said so clearly, a debate which arose in the spring and which had a growing concern about the emergence of parallel societies in the middle of Denmark, which run completely according to their own rules at odds with Danish legislation. That is the reason. But the bill is quite general and not directed towards a particular religion. And otherwise I do not believe that the former Ombudsman and the Committee on Religious Affairs would have recommended it either. That would have puzzled me a lot. So we all know the reason, but the legislation is general. Sir. Naser Khader emphasized that with regard to the requirement for a course there are reasonable exemptions in cases where people obviously have the knowledge that they should have on the course. And I agree with Mr. Naser Khader (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent report. With those words, I would like to thank you for a very good debate. I know that the Minister for Integration will now come up here and I am very pleased with the very broad majority that is emerging. I hope that my answers and the answers of the Minister for Integration are so good that the majority will even be wider. Because I sensed that those who have been concerned about the proposal are persuasive if we respond well enough. And we'll try to do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117132247	Thank you. And there are a number of brief comments to be made to the Minister. The first question is Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117132256	Thank you. We fully share the Minister's concern that parallel societies can emerge in Denmark, but from there and then to make Danish legislation that is not fully clear, there is a very long way to go for the Radical Left. We need to know what we're doing. And when the Minister says that there is no ambiguity in what is today, I would just like to ask him whether and that may be because I have come into the matter lately, I admit that we can read where the decorum requirements can lead to withdrawal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117132321	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117132323	After all, the observations made by the draft law strongly emphasise that it is in line with the so-called pre-constitutional custom on which the decorum requirement in the church rested. That is what we are linking it to, also in order that no distinction should be made between persons authorised to marry. Because if we made a difference and here created a special system that was completely different from that of the public church priests, then I think that both I, the government and others got their ears in the machine. So it is very important to link it to this custom of law, which dates from before the time of the Constitution. However, if there is something that needs to be clarified, I am happy to contribute to it during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117132414	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117132416	Well, I would like to sign for that, because it is not certain that everyone knows the pre-basic law custom, and therefore it may be good and sensible to get some of it out, so simply to get some guidelines or some clarity, in terms of what it may be, so that you get more legal certainty in Denmark, whatever you are. Because, as we know, this is not just about villains and bandits; it is about everyone who belongs to a religion in Denmark who has to comply with this. So it would be very good if you could get a little more guidance in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117132447	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117132448	I can add that, in addition to linking this to the pre-constitutional practice of law, it goes without saying that in dealing with these cases, there must be a general requirement of objectivity and proportionality in the decisions taken. When it is not described in detail, it is precisely because it relates to a current legal practice. And that is probably what we need to describe a little more clearly in the committee's answers.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117132517	The next question is Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117132520	I think it sounds like a very good idea to have it described in more detail, because in the reference in the comments it is as if the concept to which reference is made is also rather unclear. So, how is this decorum requirement applied in relation to public church priests and civil servants? There are only three examples in the comments. One is the dedication of minors; the other is the dedication of those who are forced to do so; and the third is the committing of serious offences. And if it's just that kind of thing, I personally think it would be wiser to describe exactly what those actions are, for example. lawbreaking that can lead to this. For the risk now is that there is a arbitrariness in it. I would like to hear the Minister's thoughts on why, for example, we have to look into the matter. doesn't define sharply what it's all about, rather than this very broad requirement. What concerns us is, of course, whether this is the case, for example. means restrictions on freedom of expression. I could ask the Minister: would it be against the decorum requirement to express oneself in the church, in public or in private that one supported the death penalty, that one thought it was okay to beat up one's spouse, or that one thought it was okay to chastise one's children? Can the Minister say on the basis of the three examples whether this would violate the decorum requirement?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117132649	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117132650	As Mr. Carl Holst has said several times, this is not about attitudes. We are allowed to have all sorts of attitudes, including those of divorcers, for example. and probably also to the right of reproof. But it is about practicing one's attitude in a way that makes one unworthy in the eyes of the public. However, I would very much like to reply to all this in committee, so that the ambiguity disappears. If I am to justify that we cannot list every conceivable circumstance which could lead to the disqualification of the marriage authority, then it is because it is precisely linked to a custom of law. This is a little like linking up with a convention, and then you know that there are 53 judgments in some human rights court that describe this convention. In other words, for more than 150 years there has been a custom in which there have been different decisions. That is what we are dealing with, and I do not think that means any ambiguity. On the contrary, the Folketing can be confident that the custom of law, which has been in force and which has not caused problems in the case of the clergy of the people's church, is the one which we are now transferring to all with the authorisation of marriage.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117132825	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117132826	I think it sounds really good again to get a very accurate description of what kind of decisions have been made in relation to decorum in the other cases. I think that will be very helpful so that we can get a final overview. But there's something here, anyway, for sir. Naser Khader was e.g. upstairs saying that this is about "and it was in the wake of this broadcast that I think shocked many of us that we have some people in Denmark who are opposed to our democracy." However, as far as I can understand from the Minister, we should like to have those views. I mean, you can say that democracy is a bad thing. I think it is awful that there are people who mean it and work for it, but that is something to be thought of without having their wedding authorisation taken away just to make sure we know what we are talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117132917	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117132918	The answer is yes. You can be against female priests, you must be against divorce, and you must even refuse to shake hands with female colleagues. After all, one or more priests have refused to do so, and they have not been fired for it. And that is because it has to do with attitudes and therefore is part of freedom of religion, in freedom of thought. And it's something other than the decorum requirement.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117132947	The next question is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117132949	If it stood for Enhedslisten, then marriage competence was something that the state had, and what one wants from religious rituals in addition, must then be up to oneself. Then we would avoid this whole discussion. However, I am pleased to hear that the minister of church will clarify what this decorum requirement actually covers, because our question is quite frankly an attempt to create more clarity. In fact, we find it a little difficult to take a position on this proposal because we think it is unclear what it actually contains. And the question I would like to ask is also an attempt to bring greater clarity. Now the Minister says that you can mean all sorts of things that we're then some people may think are crazy. But you can, we have freedom of speech. The question is whether one practices one's attitude in a way that makes one unworthy. And the Minister made this point in connection with the Court of Auditors. When does one take a stand on the right of rebuke, that is to say, that the right of rebuke must be reinstated because it is the parent's training mandate? That's how I know some argue. When do you practice that attitude in such a way that you become unworthy of the law besides, of course, breaking the law by beating children?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117133110	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117133111	If you break the law by beating children, you can be said to have lost your esteem in society. So that is a very good example. Sir. Pelle Dragsted listed some examples. I would like to add one more: if you are wedding a person who has a spouse in advance. Then you will certainly also fall for the decorum requirement because it is prohibited in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117133148	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117133150	But the whole breaking of the law thing, I understand, and I think it's reasonable and reasonable. But it doesn't say in the bill that if you break the law or call for illegal acts, you fall for this decorum requirement. Could the Minister give us an example of falling for the demand, that is to say, not meeting the demand here, which is not about breaking the law? Because beating your children is an obvious violation of law, and fortunately for it. When do you do something or practice something that is not illegal but that does not meet the decorum requirement?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117133226	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117133227	The question I think the committee should ask, also in the Ministry of Churches, is this: are there examples of abdication of the wedding authority of the clergy of the people's church, which is not due to lawlessness? I would rather not give the examples here.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117133248	The next question is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117133251	Thank you very much to the Minister for wanting to clarify this. I think it's really nice, so thank you very much for that. Because that is what we are all talking about, that is: what kind of practice is it today? So it's really nice to get an answer. For what I am thinking of is this: Is it possible to preach one's opinions, and what does that mean? That is one of the questions I would like to pursue in committee. Because I am thinking here that it is clear that if you say in your preaching that people should go home and beat their children, you are calling for violence, you are calling for something illegal, so it is probably illegal, and thus you could imagine that the preacher lost his dignity. But do you have to preach that you think it's okay to beat your children because you think the parents should have all the power or what you might think? I think that should be okay, because that is what should be said about conveying an attitude; it is a preaching, it is a way of thinking that is spoken of, but it is not called for by it. So I would like to know whether the Minister can clarify that part of it, that is, what it really is that one must preach.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117133403	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117133405	If one does not recognize law and justice in this country in his preaching work, it is the case that one may lose one's marriage authorization. After all, that is what we saw certain preachers do, and well to see in a teaching situation, that is, in a situation where they had religious authority toward fellow believers. That is where we set certain limits on what to use this authority for, at least if you want to maintain your wedding authority.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117133440	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117133442	Thank you for your answer. I think I will just try to pursue it in committee when it comes to looking at: what exactly is practice in this area? So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117133452	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117133454	Well, I'm looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117133458	Thank you to the church minister. The next speaker is the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117133503	Thank you. And thank you for the many speeches here today. It is not exactly this bill that has been the most debated, but I would just like to say a few words anyway, because the purpose of the L 50 is to translate the part of the agreement that the government, the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party and the Conservative People's Party entered into on 31 May of this year. This agreement concerns initiatives aimed at religious preachers who, in their activities, preach courage and seek to oppose Danish laws and values such as freedom and democracy. The draft law we are discussing today is therefore one of several initiatives designed to counter certain religious preachers trying to undermine our democracy and the fundamental freedoms and human rights on which our society is based. We must not accept that people in this country behave in a manner contrary to the values and rights on which our society is founded. That is why we must take action on several fronts. The proposal before us today concerns the part of the agreement which concerns the making of a declaration of promise on compliance with Danish law and on the one hand participation in a course in Danish family law, freedom and popular rule as a condition of residence as a religious minister. After all, the draft law must be seen in the context of the bill that my colleague, the church minister, has just presented. The draft law amending the law on aliens means, first of all, that in future the residence permit for religious ministers must be conditional upon the person concerned signing a promise of his or her activities and on compliance with Danish law. In some of the consultation responses received from the consultation parties, concerns have been expressed as to whether the release of the declaration of promise restricts freedom of expression and religion. I would like to emphasise that the draft law has nothing to do with freedom of expression or freedom of religion. The bill alone regulates the Witnesses'access to residence in this country. With the bill, the Government wants to send out a clear signal that it wants to stay in Denmark in order to provide religious guidance and advise citizens, it must therefore do so in accordance with Danish legislation. For example: it is a criminal offence to encourage crime or publicly to approve crimes against the security of the state. Secondly, the draft law means that in future the extension of the residence permit granted as a religious preacher must be subject to the condition that the alien has completed a compulsory course in Danish family law, freedom and popular rule. Today, the extension of the residence permit for religious ministers is among other things. subject to the existence of an immigration test. The immigration test consists of a test in Danish and a test in Danish social conditions. The extension is also conditional on the alien having completed a course on Danish family law within 6 months. However, this is only the case if the foreigner marries as part of his duties. The new course will then replace the course in Danish family law. The course is thus extended from covering only Danish family law to dealing with freedom and popular rule. Furthermore, the new course will apply to all religious ministers applying for the extension of the residence permit, and not only to those who make weddings. The purpose of the course is to give religious ministers an insight into and an understanding of Danish family law, freedom and popular rule, so that they have the right conditions for advising and guiding their congregations in accordance with Danish law. Finally, I would like to thank you for the very broad support for the proposal and, if there are any questions, we can either clarify it here or as part of the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117133934	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I suggest that Bill No. L 30 is referred to the Committee of Churches and to Bill No. L 50 refer to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117133955	The debate is open. I give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117134018	The proposers have proposed the introduction of a ban on masking in public spaces and wearing complete clothing designed to hide the face. The debate on the introduction of a ban on complete clothing, such as: As you know, burka and niqab are not a new debate, and the proposal is not new, but has actually been discussed in the past. During our previous reign back in 2010, the government clearly announced what demands can be made as a private and public employer and as head of a school and an educational institution. We also had legislation implemented to punish people with imprisonment for up to four years if someone is forced to wear burka or niqab, and we were made clear that they cannot be seen as witnesses. Having said that, I agree with the authors that it is also appropriate to consider again, in the light of the revelations made in the TV 2 broadcast, whether we have the right measures in place to oppose the forces that do not want Denmark. These are the forces that do not want equality, for example. believes that a woman should put on a burka and, by the way, stay within the four walls of the apartment. The Ministry of Justice considers that it will be possible to impose a general ban in some form, as expressed, against masking and facial covering if certain conditions are met. For example, it will. require the prohibition to have a recognised purpose; that the prohibition should not be designed in such a way as to constitute discrimination on grounds of creed or discrimination on grounds of facts so closely related to the creed that the result is in fact the same. So we cannot impose a ban on burkas and niqabber alone. This is similarly the assessment discussed back in November 2014 at the first reading of what was then called B 10, where the then Minister of Justice also presented the Legal Assessment of the Ministry of Justice. This means that the reality of our discussions today is a political debate on whether a general ban is the right way to go. For generations we have developed a society in Denmark where, on the one hand, there is freedom of diversity, but also duties and responsibilities towards the common. We must preserve that, and we must safeguard it. When I see a person wearing burka or niqab, I don't see a woman. Honestly, I see a subdued and sad existence shrouded in spiritual and material darkness. And I see the burka as an expression that you do not want Denmark and that you do not want our values and our culture. I fully share the view of the proposers that in Danish culture it is crucial for our dealings with each other that we can actually see each other's faces. This is simply the prerequisite for an equal dialogue. We are therefore in complete agreement on this objective. We must put an end to the anti-womenism and counter-culture that we see and that the burka is an expression of. However, the government does not believe that new legislation in the form of a general ban is the right method to achieve the goal. The government attaches crucial importance to the consideration of personal freedom, including the right to decide for yourself how to dress. Such a fundamental right of freedom must not be allowed to make us give up. Instead of openly confronting dark ideologies. Then I would also like to urge relevant actors, such as the European Commission. school managers, employers and municipal representatives to use the rules in force, including management rights, to say no to the use of e.g. Burka. Because we already have ample opportunity today, based on existing rules, to say stop when we are confronted with the use of burka on, for example. schools, jobs and in relation to the public system. Therefore, and on that grounds, the Government hereby suspends the rejection of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117134524	Thank you. There is, for the time being, one brief comment, and it is from Mr Seligman. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117134530	Thank you. I must not hide the fact that it is my view and the view of the Danish People's Party that, unfortunately, we see that society is becoming increasingly Islamised; that the extreme forces in a number of areas are gaining ground. I also think you see when you're moving around different places in the street picture... but it's hard just to count it... that the use of burka and niqab is becoming more widespread in Denmark. So developments in a number of areas are in the wrong direction. I think it is becoming a bit hollow when you say that, for the sake of freedoms, you want to retain the possibility that people can wear burka or niqab in Danish society. This is, of course, a very, very clear departure from the value base on which Denmark is based, including our freedoms. So I would urge the government to come to terms with action at some point. Because it is fine to condemn it, but if you just condemn it, nothing will come of it. I think that the other parties have moved forward, including with the legislative proposals that have just been adopted, and that is sensible, and that is good, and that is positive, but there is a need for an extra step away. But I would like to ask a specific question. Does the Minister think that it is reasonable that there is in fact nothing today that forbids, for example, that people should not be allowed to do so? as a public servant wearing burka and niqab?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117134638	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117134639	I think it is crucial that you have a management right that makes it possible to say that it should not take place in the workplace. We introduced that right of management at the time, and I also believe that you are in your right to use and use that right.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117134659	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117134700	I still do not think that the Minister is dealing with the dilemma that exists. I recognize the dilemma. But it sounds a little strange to say, in a sense, with reference to freedoms, that people in Danish society should run around with burka and niqab, and that it is quite all right. I think we have simply passed it. It is a question of people who very, very clearly distance themselves from Danish society, and in some cases it is also a question of women who are grossly oppressed. And that doesn't have much to do with freedoms. So the Minister is very happy to make a few comments on that. The second part of my question was that, if you are employed in the public sector, it is not prohibited to wear burka and niqab today. It may well be that there is a leader in the public sector who comes to the conclusion that he does not think this is a good idea. But he or she might as well come up with an excellent idea. In Faxe Municipality, attempts have been made to say that public employees are not allowed to bear it, but that could not be achieved. Why would it not at least be said in this House and on the part of the government that if people are public employees, they should at least not wear burka and niqab?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117134755	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117134756	First of all, I fully agree with what I said in my speech that this is both anti-female and highly oppressive. It was one of those things. That is why, at the time, we introduced the rules for punishing someone who requires someone else to walk, for example. with burka, with up to 4 years in prison. It is precisely to say that we do not want others to be oppressed by forcing people, for example. To wear a burka. So the rapporteur is simply not right in what he said just now. With regard to the public sector, I would like to say once again that I believe it must be up to the municipalities. I know where I stand, and I also know where the Danish People's Party stands. And we can then hope that people around the municipalities are in the same place as us, namely that people should not bear it if they work in the public sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117134857	The next question is Mr. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117134857-2	I have to say, first of all, that I cannot really understand the reluctance to ban burkas, and there are so many reasons for this. It is, of course, in the nature of the burka that it is a symbol of Sharia, which is precisely the rules of purity and all kinds of regulations in relation to the behaviour of the woman, and that it will isolate the individual from society. And that means that integration will be virtually impossible. Secondly, I would like to say that the face is an identification point in relation to the personality of the individual. This means that it is very important in debates and when you meet each other, that you can see who each other is. Both are not present when carrying niqab. On the contrary, they say that you isolate and distance yourself from this society. That is why I just think that there is good sense in society ensuring that you can see who you are facing and that the oppressive symbol of the burka is removed from public space.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117135007	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117135008	But those opportunities are already there today, Christian Langballe, because you can say: in our municipality we will not accept it, or on our company we will not accept it. So the possibilities are complete today. And I kind of think you're kicking an open door in relation to the attitude. I do not disagree that it is both a strong women's oppressive symbol and that it is also a counterculture to Danish culture if you wear niqab or for example. Burka.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117135040	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117135041	Well, we're not talking about "can," we're talking about "should." In other words, it is crucial that we can see the people we are facing. Now let's imagine that all women were shrouded. Then it would be almost half of those who walked the street, who you wouldn't be able to identify when you met them, and you wouldn't know who you were talking to. Or if you get a teacher in school that's wrapped up, you can't see who the teacher is. I mean, I think it is so fundamental, in terms of how we view things, that a burka ban and a niqab ban would be the only right thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117135126	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117135127	However, I do not disagree with your view that you should of course know who you are facing, nor do I disagree with the view that this is women's oppressive and that it is a counterculture of Danish culture and that it does not fit in with our set of values. The only question is whether we should make a general ban or whether, as we have done now, we should give the opportunity to say: this should not be in our company or in our institution. That possibility already exists today. This is an opportunity that we introduced together, just as we imposed penalties for forcing others to wear a niqab or burka.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117135207	Thank you, Minister. The next speaker is Mr. Dan Jørgensen as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117135218	Thank you. When you as a foreigner come to Denmark, you get a share in the fundamental freedoms that are in this country. You have the right to express yourself freely, the right to assemble and the right to practice your religion. But, as you know, these rights also include obligations. First of all, the duty to look after the open, democratic and equal society that we have built up for generations, the duty to respect Danish values and the duty to respect gender equality. Fortunately, Denmark is one of the most secure countries in the world to be a woman, and Denmark is one of the countries with the greatest gender equality. In Denmark women do not lower their eyes for men, in Denmark women do not go covered, for fear of what might happen to them and their families if they do not. It is generally the case, and that is the way it should continue to be. Let me therefore say quite frankly that a demand by a man that a woman should wear burka or niqab is, in our view, totally unacceptable. It is women's oppression, and we cannot accept that. That is why I have a great deal of sympathy for what is the main intention of this motion for a resolution, namely to put an end to an outdated, religiously conditional and a women's oppressive demand for women to be fully covered in order to maintain their honour. Having said that, we cannot back the proposal anyway. After all, the extent of the problem is, fortunately, relatively modest in Denmark, and we therefore believe that it is an excessive and violent step at this stage to create a general ban and legislation. To legislate on people's clothing is a big step to take, a potential interference in human freedom, something that must only be done if it is absolutely necessary. Overall, of course, this is an assessment issue. There are good arguments both for and against imposing a ban, but we believe that the interests of freedom and citizens' rights are the most important here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117135433	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117135438	Thank you. After all, we have dealt with this proposal a few times here in the Parliamentary Assembly, among other things. In 2009, when the Danish People's Party also had a proposal, Mr. Henrik Sass Larsen as then political rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, and I now quote from the daily Information and from the Jutland West Coast: "We still think that burkas are an assault on women, and we originally thought that a ban was a good idea. But all the experts we have talked to say that it is probably contrary to the Constitution. We must, of course, bow to that, says the Socialist political rapporteur, Henrik Sass Larsen. What has happened in the meantime is that the experts are now saying that we can implement it within the framework of the Constitution. Well, then, sir. Dan Jørgensen agrees with Mr. Henrik Sass Larsen?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117135525	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117135526	It is clear that if there had been a constitutional reason why it could not be introduced here, then I would probably not have spent all my speaking time promoting some other arguments, but I would probably have just said that it is against the basic law, so we do not support it. But now it has been established that it is not necessarily against the Constitution, and therefore one concentrates on the other arguments.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117135547	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117135548	When we dealt with a similar proposal from the Danish People's Party in 2009, the Social Democrat position was that one would like to vote for the Danish People's Party's proposal, but that one could not because it was contrary to the Constitution. Now we have the Minister of Justice's word that it is not contrary to the Constitution. What, then, prevents the Social Democrats from voting for it unless the Social Democratic Party openly and honestly says that at some point it was good to have a burka ban, but you just couldn't, and now you think it's a bad idea to have a burka ban, even if you can? Sir. Dan Jørgensen must either agree with Mr. Henrik Sass Larsen, who said that the Social Democratic Party would like to, but must not because of the Constitution, or must he openly and honestly acknowledge that there is simply a disagreement between him and Mr. Henrik Sass Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117135632	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117135633	I simply lost the thread in the author's reasoning logic, but what I can point out is that we have dealt with this proposal several times, including since 2009. Whoever has then said what in all sorts of newspapers, and at exactly what times and what arguments they have weighted most, I shall not judge, nor do I have any views on it either. But what I would very much like to say is my own position and that of my party today, and if Mr. Martin Henriksen has any further questions in that direction, he must bring them. He has then used up his speaking time, but then we can take them next door.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117135710	The next question is Mr. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117135713	I agree with the rapporteur that it is, of course, a serious intervention to legislate on people's clothing. We agree with that, and that is why we do not do it. The rapporteur then says that freedom will be defended. But that's exactly what we're doing with this ban. The interesting thing is that we are doing this to defend freedom. In other words, if there is a Sharia law requiring the individual to be locked up in such a kind of prison by a black bag, then one can say that it is a violation of general freedom, at least as we understand it here in the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117135802	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117135804	As I think I was also told in my speech, this is a question in which there are, in fact, good arguments both for and against. I also recognise quite frankly, and I believe that it is women's oppressive to use these garments, especially, of course, if that is something that has been imposed. That is why I actually think that the balance that has now been found, even though it has not been easy, is quite good. Because there are certain measures that you can use, where one of the strongest is that there is a penalty for those who require others to put on these garments. Perhaps it is also very good to go after those who oppress rather than impose a fine on those who have been oppressed, which I understand the Danish People's Party is proposing.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117135856	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117135857	I have to say that for so many reasons I am in favour of a burka ban. It is true that it may be 10, that it may be 100, that it may be 500, or perhaps 1,000, we agree with that, but if this goes on, and you, for example, if you go for a walk in Copenhagen, cannot identify half of those who walk the street, you can barely look them in the eye, then everyone will understand that this is a huge problem. I really believe in every way that the burka simply symbolises the worst form of oppression, and that is barbarity in the back door.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117135935	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117135936	It cannot be said that there is something like this coming in through the back door, since we are taking this debate in the first floor of the country and from the country's foremost platform, although the rapporteur is quite right in saying that we do not know whether we are talking about ten people. But it cannot be said that something has come in through the back door, because we actually take it very, very seriously and treat it in the Chamber, despite the fact that it may be only a very few people. But I think it's good that we do, too. It is clear, of course, that we must be very, very aware that these issues can also spread. That is why neither my party nor, I understand, the Minister can actually see any blank rejection of the fact that such a ban can be introduced in the future. It may be necessary at some point. At this stage, however, we believe that it will be out of proportion and that it will do violence on some other rights to serve this purpose.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117140031	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Marcus Knuth as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117140042	Thank you. Let me begin by saying that I have the utmost sympathy for the intentions of the proposers when it comes to combating the use of burka and niqab in Danish society. I believe that burka and niqab reflect the darkest women's oppressive hooks of Islam, something that we in no way want in Denmark. However, before we embark on legislation, we need to ask ourselves very simple questions, first of all whether this is a problem that is so extensive that it actually requires a change of law. I would honestly say that I have never seen a burka in Denmark in my entire life. It is not because I do not know what a burka looks like, because I have seen them many times in Afghanistan, where unfortunately they are part of the normal picture, but burkas are practically not used in Denmark. On the other hand, unfortunately, we sometimes see that the niqabben is used here, primarily in Copenhagen. I'd say I've never seen one at home at Lolland, it's not going so well with the beet fields. But even in Copenhagen, it is fortunately rare to see them. But having said that, a niqab in Denmark is a niqab too much, and that is why we must take the problem seriously. That is why the second question we need to ask ourselves is whether there is already legislation to combat the use of niqab in public spaces. And there's the answer, yes. The right of management provides ample opportunity for people to refuse to use burka and niqab, for example. in schools, at work and in the public system, and the municipalities can do so. We also saw this in the case of Lyngby earlier this year when a group of girls appeared for VUC education in niqab, after which the head of the school decided that it was simply not allowed. The Minister also mentioned that there is other legislation and punishment in relation to coercion and prohibition of use in courtrooms when witnessing etc. So if there is already adequate legislation in relation to the real challenge we are facing right now, is there a need to invent new legislation? The third question, which I think we must ask ourselves, is whether this proposal, as it is described here, will affect some of the wrong people. After all, I cannot help asking myself whether a total ban on masks, as is stated here, will also mean that children cannot wear flying suits in winter and take a scarf over their faces if it snows, or whether it means that Danish children are not allowed to go to Halloween or that you cannot wear a motorcycle helmet. That is my third concern about this proposal, that is, the way it is formulated, and for these reasons the Left is against the proposal. But should the use of burka and niqab grow into a bigger problem in Denmark than it is right now and I really think God forbid it and we therefore have a situation where the current legislation is not good enough, so let us look at it, and then of course we should take it seriously, but I would say that it is at this stage. So if there is a general development of society here, I think one hundred percent that we should look at what we can do, and that is what we should do every time Islamism sneaks into our society. However, as the world looks today, where we have legislation that has so far been effective enough to counter the use of burka or niqab in schools, I do not think we need further legislation. Legislation is something you initiate when there is a real need for it. Especially in a situation like this, where it is something to do with freedoms, I think we should be careful to restrict our freedoms as long as there is no need for it yet, and hopefully there will not be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117140414	There are some brief comments. The first one's from sir. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117140420	It is strange that everyone who has been on the platform so far says that it is a problem that there are people who use niqab in Denmark; it is a problem. If that's a problem, don't you have to deal with it? There are also some who are very pleased with the expression called due diligence. Well, you have to deal with a problem before it grows bigger. Moreover, I believe that the problem of Islamism over the years has grown more and more in Denmark. So it would be timely care to introduce it now if Mr. Marcus Knuth and the Left can see that there is a development that is not so appropriate, and already think it is a problem today with niqab. So I simply do not understand the argument. Then I would like to ask: if the Left has the view that at least as a public employee you should not wear burka and niqab, why would the Left not make a law saying that you should not do it as a public employee? Why not?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117140511	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117140513	If I may take the first part first, I would say that unfortunately there are many things in our society that I do not think are right. I have also been to political meetings with Danish families, where the mother in the family, when it comes to politics, goes into the kitchen, etc., so that men can talk politics. We should not, of course, go in and legislate against this. There are just parts of society that are still too old-fashioned. The same can be said of niqab and as long as people go into it in their private homes, I do not think we should legislate on it. In relation to the issue of municipalities, I would like to say that as long as the municipalities or, for example, the municipalities are involved. The education institution in Lyngby uses the legislation that exists, in other words, in relation to the right of management, appropriately, and as long as municipalities and schools use it to solve the problem, there is no need for national legislation at present, in other words, as the country currently stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117140606	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117140608	Thank you. Well, our proposal is not about banning it in private homes, but in public spaces. And then I understand that it is a problem, but that you do not want to do anything about it until the problem has got bigger. But then my question again is: if you mean "and that is the point of view of the Left" that you would like to allow it in public space, but do not think that it should be allowed for employees in the public sector, why would you not be involved in making a law saying that you are not allowed to wear burka or niqab when you are employed in the public sector? Because there are some public institutions that have made it reasonable to say that we must not do so. However, in Faxe Municipality, the attempt has been made, and it has at least been achieved not to impose a ban on it. So would it not be very sensible if we had a broad view in here at Christiansborg that public employees should not wear burka or niqab • to make legislation to ensure that they do not?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117140654	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117140656	I have a great deal of sympathy for what the rapporteur says, but that would only be necessary if we see that the municipalities do not use the administrative law that they have. In other words, if municipalities go in and allow the extensive use of burka or niqab, that is another issue. But there have been few individual cases, for example. in Lyngby, where women appeared in niqab, and there the leader immediately entered and used the right he has to ban it. It is also a reflection of how Denmark is divided between state and municipalities in general. In other words, we are trying to maintain that the municipalities have a certain right of self-determination and authority, and as long as they manage it well enough, there is no reason to go in and dominate them.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117140744	Then it's mr. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117140749	I would say that the fact that this is a general problem must call for general legislation. I think that's what I'm talking about. If perhaps someone is wearing niqab and teaching children in primary school, is it necessarily just because it is one, excellent that the children cannot see who is teaching them? I just think it's so intrusive, and I think the niqab is so intrusive. Then the rapporteur says: well, we must also defend freedoms. Yes, that is exactly what is at stake, because a niqab ban will mean a defence of freedoms. That is what is so paradoxical in this discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117140833	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117140836	I fully agree that niqab is a violation of freedom, but when it comes to specific education, I have not heard of a school where there is a woman who stands and teaches wearing niqab or burka and where the head of the school refuses to go in and make a ban. That is the whole point of this discussion, namely that it is not a problem that has yet arisen. If this happens, I think we should take it extremely seriously, but so far I have every confidence that our schools and our municipalities can manage it here. I am not saying that it is an impossible or a stupid idea to make a national ban, but as the country is currently on the day we have right now, there is not a school that I know, where there are women and teachers wearing niqab, and that is why there is no need for legislation in this area either.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117140921	The questioner doesn't have any more questions. Then the next question is Mr. Carsten Kudsk, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117140942	I would like to ask the rapporteur a question about refueling a gas station and coming in and having to be served by some staff. It says, for example, that you should not wear hoodies or a crash helmet, but, funny enough, it does not say anything about burka. So I would like to ask the rapporteur: how does the rapporteur think the staff feel about a possible robbery when someone enters the burka, where you cannot see who the person is?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117140953	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117140956	I imagine that the staff at a gas station are thinking: it was a terrible example of women's oppression that we have there; how amazing it is that you cannot see this woman's face. But we do have a management right that says, for example, that you have to. At a school you can say: Don't wear a hoodie, don't wear a hat that says something dirty on it. After all, it is up to the individual institution to go in and legislate. And if it is the case that a service station has a problem with them being exposed to armed robbery by people in a motorcycle helmet, then I can see that they have a problem. But I do not think they do, nor do I think they have a major problem with them being robbed by niqabs. And that is why there is no need to legislate on it either.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117141040	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117141043	Now we've seen examples of that I can just mention an example from Nyborg, where a burka-dressed woman actually managed to get into a prison, and where the criminal person in question put on this burka and slipped out again, and that gave rise to an outcry. And the problem is that if you point out to gas stations or private ones that they for example. We must have some kind of picture, and we shall also begin to have this discussion about whether it is discriminatory in relation to public space. Does the rapporteur not think it would be good if the person who comes to the gas station did not wear burka? Because it's totally crazy that the person comes to the gas station, and then they have to pull the burka off. Then it is better to send a signal that it just shouldn't be there in public space.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117141122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117141125	Well, now I don't see there's a bigger problem with burka-clad women entering gas stations. And besides, as I said before, there are virtually no burkas in Denmark. Burka is primarily something you see in Afghanistan. But then let's talk about niqab. Well, I don't think niqab at gas stations is a common problem. The day it should be, and I hope it never happens, so let's have a talk about it. However, since I am aware that there are no women who teach in Danish public schools, there is no need to legislate on this either. And it is precisely because this is something that affects our freedoms that I say that I do not deny that we can be forced to do so, but because it affects freedoms, we must only do so when there is a real problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117141204	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117141212	Neither burka nor niqab is, fortunately, a widespread phenomenon in Denmark. There is no doubt, including here in Denmark, that women are forced to cover themselves up. And that's a problem. It's not just a problem for the women it hits. This is, I think, a problem for all of us when there are people in our society and in our community who are subjected to illegal coercion. There are certainly also some women who voluntarily choose to wear a burka or a niqab. Personally, I find this strange, but I do not think it is a social problem that there are women who make personal choices that I think are weird. For me, the burka and niqaben are expressions of a profoundly reactionary view of women. Several people have said that today, so this is what women's vision is all about. But I also think it is a deeply reactionary man's vision. Well, what kind of a view of men is it that seeing a woman's face is so crazy that they can't control themselves? I think that is also a derogatory man's view, in fact, that the poor men are regarded as such willless creatures who are unable to control their own sexuality. There is something like when women who have been raped meet with one: Well, but you could just have put on a longer dress, or: Weren't you a little depressed? Apart from the fact that it is deeply rude to say that to a woman, I also think it is a strange approach to men, i.e. a derogatory way of thinking about men. The key question must be how to tackle coercion and social control and how to combat reactionary attitudes towards gender, no matter where the coercion or reactionary attitudes are expressed. I do not believe that the criminalisation and prohibition of the burka or niqab is in any way a useful tool. Firstly, I assume that the aim of the proposal is primarily to be a helping hand for women who are subjected to coercion. I find it hard to see how to help these women by punishing them. Well, you could ask if they should be fined, community service or prison for being oppressed. I find it hard to see that punishing women who wear burka or niqab is in any way helping them. Secondly, we run the risk of pushing a group of women who already live in the outer circle of our society even further away. So we risk them never coming outside a door. I don't think so either. Thirdly, I am very excited about living in a country where we have to decide for ourselves what clothes we wear. It is, of course, the compulsion to fight, that is to say, the phenomenon that there are fortunately few, as it is very little common in Denmark that is forced to go with burka and niqab. It is the coercion that must be fought. The question then is how to combat coercion and social control, in other words, in addition to the obvious fact that it is, of course, a criminal offence, and it must also be the imposition of illegal coercion on people. So, how do we fight coercion? How do we combat social control? We do so, I believe, not by making symbolic proposals in this Chamber. We are doing this by ensuring that women, men, boys and girls who are subjected to social control and coercion are actually offered the help that is needed to leave the environment or those who are subject to coercion. And that they are aware that the help exists. There are far too many women, for example. end up in shelters that end up going back to the violent man or family. That's a huge problem. The Enhedslisten has recently again put forward proposals to ensure that these women are protected, i.e. that when they are finished at the crisis centre, there is actually a system that picks up. The national organisation for women's crisis centres has been shouting at this for years and saying: 'Try to hear: There are not enough safety nets that catch when women, and for that matter young men, leave families who impose coercion on them.' If you want to combat women's oppression, if you want to combat human oppression, as I think it can be expressed here, then that is where you have to take action and make sure that these people are aware that they can get support and that the support actually exists. We must also ensure that all refugees and family members acquire good Danish knowledge, even if they did not get started with, i.e. even if they get started a little late. And, as I said, we must also listen to the many professionals who say: make sure that aid is there when you leave controlling environments. In conclusion, I am simply very concerned that a proposal such as this will strengthen the reactionary forces because they can say: well, freedom in Denmark is being talked about a lot. Just not for us. And if there's something we're not going to do, it's giving these reactionary forces wind in the sails. The Enhedslisten cannot support the motion for a resolution, and I should like to welcome it from the SF and say that they cannot support the motion for a resolution either.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117141751	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117141807	We are discussing a motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party on a ban on masking and covering clothing in public spaces in human language. This has been proposed before, and I really think it is quite fine that we are now taking the debate again, because the subject is both at home and abroad a politically hot potato. This summer, the South French town of Villeneuve-Loubet introduced a ban on burkini, but later the ban on the Muslim bathing suit was lifted again because the Constitutional Court considered the ban illegal. I understand the need for the debate and the eagerness to act, because what we are doing when people are wandering around us and in public spaces dressed in a suit that represents values that, for most of us, are completely out in hemp and in direct contradiction with what generations of Danes have fought for: women's liberation and equality. In the Liberal Alliance, we do not like women covering themselves for religious doctrines. We have no doubt that someone is doing it under compulsion, but we have no doubt that someone is doing it because they want to, no matter how difficult this is to understand. As liberals, however, our starting point is that we must dress as we please. This also applies to Muslim women. On the other hand, do not force others to dress in a certain way against their will. It is already prohibited, it is contained in section 260 of the Criminal Code on unlawful coercion and is punishable by imprisonment for up to 4 years. We cannot agree to legislation on how we dress, even if we do not like the burka and everything it stands for. I believe that if the proposers imagine that a ban will cause Muslim women to throw the burka, they will be badly disappointed. The result may be more that some women are not allowed to move outside the four walls of the home, and then the home is de facto a prison for them, and we will not have come a nick closer to breaking the social control that flourishes in certain environments. Here is exactly an area in which we must let the forces of civil society prevail, where we openly and loudly challenge the values represented by a burka and press for the mental, doctrinal burka to be thrown away. The Liberal Alliance cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117142044	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Josephine Fock as rapporteur for the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117142054	Thank you. After all, we are discussing the Danish People's Party's motion for a ban on masking and covering in the public space, specifically the burka ban. The authors of the motion for a resolution justify the fact that the social cohesion of the Danish society is threatened by complete clothing. The question I would like to ask is: is the cohesion of our country really so weak that the few people who go with either niqab or burka can destroy the cohesion of our society? I don't think so. Secondly, it is motivated by a desire to end the oppression of women among radical Muslim environments. What I would like to question is how a ban on masking and covering clothing in public spaces can prevent women's oppression. I am rather extremely concerned that those women will really be kept indoors and not be allowed to go out at all. One can say that it is not the clothes in themselves that are women's oppressive, it is actually the fact that you do not have a free will to wear the clothes you want. I also think that the proposal envisages the possibility of punishing women who wear burka or niqab, and that makes no sense to me if the reason is that it is because it is women's oppressive. In 2010 we had what was called a burka committee, which also dealt with this issue, and at that time it was estimated that there were approx. Three women wearing burka. I guess that number's up a little bit. I sometimes see burka-clad women in the vicinity of Aarhus, but that's mainly where I encounter them. At that time we had a wide-ranging questioning round throughout the public administration, and nobody said that the problem was of such importance that it was entitled to a specific legislative initiative. Nor was the committee able to prove at the time that facial coverage was a problem in terms of identity checks, since the public administration and an authority such as the police generally have useful opportunities to establish a woman's identity. I am happy and proud that in Denmark I can still think and think and believe what I want, and I am also proud that we do not legislate about what clothes we must wear. For me, the personal freedom to wear what you want is absolutely essential for a democracy and a rule of law, and that is why it is important for me to be able to dress, as you like, in public space. I think it would be problematic if we were to legislate on clothing. There may be situations where we don't understand why these women wear these clothes, but in my optics it must be up to the women themselves if they want to cover themselves up. For some it is a free choice, and for some, I fully recognise it, it is part of a oppressive culture, but there it is that I think we are not helping these women by prohibiting them from coming outside a door. I think that the way to ensure that there is no women's oppression is a long way and a hard struggle. In reality, it is always to make sure that Denmark is a freedom-loving country, we have the right to do what we want to do as long as it does not hurt others, and we have the right to dress as we like. So I don't think it's up to the Folketing to decide how to dress. In the sports world, we can see that things are going the opposite way, because rules have begun to be laid down as to how little clothing women must wear, and that in my optics is also completely twisted. So I think we should work together to ensure that we constantly move towards a society in which neither oppressive men, nor sports federations, nor parliament should decide how women's bodies are to be exposed or uncovered. The alternative cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117142513	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. I do not see the radical rapporteur in the Chamber. That is why we move on to Mr. Naser Khader as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117142526	Perhaps someone has noticed that when the Islamic State has been defeated in their territories and the population has been under the occupation of Islamic State, the first thing women do is burn their burka. They start smoking, and some have been interviewed and have said that now they can get air in their face. Burka is mostly not self-chosen. It's totally women's oppressive. At least I haven't seen any men wearing burka. It's all about women and rein in their sexuality. I recently published an interview book with a Syrian fugitive, Hanan. One of the first things she did when she came to Denmark was to drop the hijaben. She said she'd wanted it all her life, but it couldn't be done where she came from. It's a myth if you think the women choose it for themselves. Perhaps a few do, but mostly it is coercion. We in Conservatives support the motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party banning masking and covering clothing in public spaces. In any case, we support all the initiatives that go in this direction. We want a burka-free society both in Denmark and globally. Several critics of the proposal have said that we should be able to dress as we like, and we think that we should also be able to dress as we like on the basis and in principle. But burka and niqab are not an innocent garment. Carrying them is not an expression, it is an extreme political act • also a women's oppressive act. Burka and niqab do not belong in public spaces in an open society. In an open society, we must be able to see the face of our fellow citizens. This isn't about scarves, that's what covers the hair. I disagree with the people who cover their hair, but I don't feel hurt by someone doing it. I don't want to get involved in that. What I insist on is that I will be able to see the face of my fellow citizens. Burka and niqab are totally women's oppressors. They're sending the wrong signals to young women who want to be integrated, and then we have to be able to see who we're talking to in this society. It is conservative policy that a society not only demands that you can do what you want. There must also be limits. A free society requires a minimum framework for how we deal with each other. We need to be able to see each other in the face. The Burka is women's oppressive because it wraps the women in and away. Burka minimizes female expression in public space. For the same reason, in 2009, we proposed a similar proposal as part of our integration initiative. We dropped the proposal because the Ministry of Justice at the time considered that a ban would violate human rights. Since then, the Ministry of Justice has become wiser. The Court of Human Rights said in 2014 about the French ban on burka that the ban does not violate rights, nor does it conflict with religious freedom, privacy or equal treatment. We agree with critics of the proposal that caution should be exercised in banning dress, but precisely burka and niqab are special and require special legislation. Burka and niqab suppress and weaken the joint conversation in public space. We don't demand much, but we demand that we see each other's faces. That is why we support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117142924	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117142934	Thank you. The Danish People's Party is working, as most people hopefully have noticed, continuously to tighten the law on foreigners. However, we must also work on new approaches to the increasing Islamisation of society. Our proposal is not a new proposal. This has been achieved several times before, and although both the Left and the Social Democrats have expressed their support for a ban over the years, the parties in question always find an excuse for not voting in favour when the proposal comes into the Chamber. I shall be the first to regret this, for this means that a majority in the Folketing is holding hands over some of the most extreme Islamists in our society. It is actually remarkable that so many parties can repeatedly make themselves express themselves critically about scarves, burkas and radicalised environments and yet refuse to vote in favour of today's proposal. The arguments against change. At first one wanted to vote in favour, but one could not because it was against the constitution. Now, in the words of the Ministry of Justice, we know that the proposal does not conflict with the constitution, and we even know that it does not conflict with the conventions. We even have the words of the European Court of Human Rights that it is not contrary to human rights. So now the parties can no longer use that argument. Other arguments have been put forward today, some also slightly more recent arguments. And now it is typically said, I hear so often, that the proposal is merely symbolic politics, understood that symbols do not matter. But symbols mean a lot. Just see how much formbrog means to the Danes. In the Danish People's Party, we believe that it is the Danish Parliament's job to protect the symbols that gather the Danes, while at the same time going against the symbols that divide us and which also mark a clear distance from Danish society. Of course, not all the problems will be solved with this proposal, but if it is adopted one day, the Folketing and the government will very clearly indicate that there are limits and that these limits must of course be respected and that they do not respect those limits, it also has a consequence; there is a sanction attached to it. The Danish People's Party believes that in Danish and Western culture it is a crucial part of our dealings with each other that we can actually see each other's faces. It is essential for people's interaction and life in Denmark that one cannot hide one's face or identity from one's fellow citizens. We therefore consider it essential for social cohesion that masking and covering clothing, such as clothing, for example. Burka and niqab in general should be banned in public spaces. This is not how we should do things in Denmark. Several books, articles, common sense, but also most recently the TV 2 documentary The mosques behind the veil have shown that Islamisation and radicalisation in Danish society have not decreased, but rather increased. During these years, many people come to Denmark from Muslim countries as refugees, family members and as a labour force, and it is important that they meet with a society that clearly shows our democratic and Danish values and therefore clearly signals that life in Denmark is lived in respect of equal worth between men and women, so face-to-face clothing in public space is not accepted. Of course, there is also a safety aspect in a ban on wearing clothing that covers the face. Both terrorists and other criminals can use such clothing to blur their identity while engaging in acts of terrorism or crime. I now think there are many good reasons and arguments for introducing such a ban. Actually, I think there's gonna be more and more of them. However, I would like to thank you for the debate and, above all, thank you to the Conservatives and to Mr Conservatives. Naser Khader for the support of the proposal. That was a clear speech. Of course, I think it is good that everyone is opposed to Islamism, but I think it sounds rather hollow when the majority is not ready to put action behind words. The rejection of this proposal by a majority is another victory for some of the most extreme forces in our society. You can see that in the Folketing and in the politicians you speak; you say that what they are doing is too bad, but when it comes down to it, it is hard to do anything about it seriously. Of course, I shall be the first to regret this. Those were the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117143336	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Dan Jørgensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117143343	Thank you. Sir. Martin Henriksen said earlier in today's debate that Mr. Martin Henriksen had the impression that the problem got bigger and bigger, that more and more people were wearing these costumes. Could Mr. Martin Henriksen did not elaborate on that point of view? Is that something, sir? Martin Henriksen himself has seen such on the streets and straits, or is it something that he has a factual knowledge of also is the more general picture?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117143406	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117143409	It is my own personal experience when you move around in different areas of Denmark that the problem is getting bigger and bigger. But I really think, now that Mr. Mr. Dan Jørgensen is taking the floor. Dan Jørgensen should listen a little bit to what Mr. Henrik Sass Larsen of the Social Democratic Party has said. For Mr. Henrik Sass Larsen has said very clearly that the Socialists would like to support a ban on burka and niqab in public spaces, but the reason why it could not be done was because it was against the Constitution. Now we have the Minister for Justice's word that it is not contrary to the Constitution, and we know that it is not contrary to human rights. That is why the Socialists can do what the Socialists basically want to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117143442	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117143445	It was an excellent attempt, I think, to create a diversion. But the rapporteur did not succeed anyway, because I shall now stick to the question. It's such a feeling you have. Okay. I know a little bit about statistics, I had Bjørn Lomborg for statistics in the morning of time at the university, so I followed closely. I know that no matter how much Mr. Martin Henriksen must have been out in the country, sir. Martin Henriksen's simply cannot have seen for himself enough examples of this to be able to say that this is an increasing problem. This was also well illustrated by Mr. Martin Henriksen's colleague, Mr. Christian Langballe, who said earlier in the day that he didn't know if it was 10 or 1000 this was about. Then Mr. Martin Henriksen then did not make a suggestion about how many people we are talking about in Denmark that this is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117143538	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117143541	Well, it's my own experience that it's a growing problem, and I shouldn't hide the fact that I think that one burka or one niqab is too much. In the Danish People's Party we have the view that we do not want it. We simply think it goes far beyond our borders and we think it should be banned. Now I hope I have the answer to Mr. Dan Jørgensen's question. At least I've done my best to do that. It may be, sir. Dan Jørgensen does not like the answer, but that was the answer. That is why I shall return to my diversion, as Mr. Dan Jørgensen called it, namely that I understand that the Socialists have in the past refused to support a ban on carrying burka and niqab in public spaces on the grounds that it is contrary to the Constitution, but actually wanted to do so. Now we know that this is not contrary to the Constitution. So I would urge the Social Democrats to do what they really want and vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117143625	Thank you. It does not appear that anyone else has asked for the floor. That concludes the debate. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117143642	The debate is open. Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democracy, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117143711	Thank you. Social democracy is in favour of the scrapping scheme, which ensures environmentally sound scrapping of cars. We also support the fact that the system should not provide a permanent surplus and thus accumulate funds. It is therefore also reasonable that initiatives are now being taken to reduce the environmental contribution of car owners to the benefit of the Danish car owners' economy. And it is gratifying that the incentive to scrap old cars and perhaps replace them with new and more environmentally friendly cars increases when the scrap premium is now set up. That is why the Social Democrats can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117143753	Thank you. There are no comments. Then it is Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117143800	Thank you. After all, every time we pay for liability insurance on our car, an environmental contribution is charged. The environmental contribution is that once we scrap our car, we can also get a so-called scraping premium. That scheme should go to zero; it does not do so at the moment, which is why the government has proposed to set up the scrapping premium from DKK 1,500. currently to 2,200 DKK. That is quite positive. At the same time, the environmental contribution is actually less, so we get 25 kroner. more a year to ride with as car owners and that's for a good cake, I guess. That's quite excellent. One might say that the purpose of the proposal is actually to get more people to scrap their cars in an environmentally correct way, because that is actually not what is happening right now. When the scrapping premium was introduced, the share of the environmentally soundly scrapped cars increased, but now it falls with this premium of DKK 1,500. It is then the Minister who has an assessment or a presumption that when we set up the premium, more cars will also be scrapped in an environmentally correct way. We believe that too, and we also hope that this will happen. I would like to say a few words about the fact that we in the Danish People's Party would like to see the percentage of when a car is totally damaged raised. When we say that, it is because in these days you have cars with airbags, and then we know that airbags are very, very expensive. If they have to be changed, then a car is very quickly completely damaged. This means that cars which may well be repaired, even if it is expensive, but which could easily continue, are actually scrapped because they are declared to be totally damaged. We find this problematic, especially if we look at it from an environmental point of view. So we hope that at some point we can get a look at that. Then there is one more thing that I think is a problem and which is also mentioned in some of the consultation answers to the bill, and that is, in relation to when you as a citizen can see that you have gone to a scrap dealer who is actually part of the scheme, that is, where you are approved as a scrapper and where you know as a citizen that you are doing it in an environmentally sound way. Apparently, some people on the Internet use false logos, etc., and I find that problematic. I think we should at least address the problem and then do something about it so that, as a citizen and as a user, when you want to scrap your car, you also know that you have gone to the right place. So I hope that somehow we can find a solution. Perhaps that is not the point of the proposal, but at least I think we should address the problem and do something about it. But the Danish People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117144103	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117144112	Thank you. The car scrap scheme must be economically neutral, and this requires regular adjustment of the scheme. This bill, with the now known conditions, ensures financial balance in the scheme over the next four-year period. The Left, like others who have been on the platform, also wants to combat the illegal scrapping of cars, and we do so because we want to take care of the environment, the scraping industry, we can say, and consumers, and by adjusting the car scraping system, we can do so both in terms of protecting the environment and in terms of operating the system as it should. So I would simply call this proposal common sense. Illegal scrapping undermines an industry that has already been challenged. It is estimated, and of course it is only an estimate, that up to one in four cars are illegally scrapped, and we need to get rid of these a little stumped vessels, so that we can ensure that, as far as possible, we get all old cars scrapped in the right way. Illegal scrapping does not just damage the environment when old oil and lead are not handled properly, it is also a waste of resources, so there are many good reasons for adjusting the scheme here, so we also increase the incentive for the old cars to be scrapped properly. And when we can then do so so that the economic conditions improve, it can hardly get any better. So, of course, the Left will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117144253	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117144256	In the Enhedslisten, we consider it both sensible and positive that this bill seeks to restore a balance between expenditure and revenue in the scrapping scheme. In addition, we think it makes sense to increase the scrap allowance so that there is an increased incentive to hand over your car to an approved scrapper. Basically, we find it really nice and positive that fewer cars are scrapped and that people are running longer in their cars rather than going out and buying new cars. And that is why, like the Danish People's Party, I would also like to take this opportunity to express an annoyance that this repair limit has been reduced to 65%, because it means that we are actually forcing people to send cars for scrap, even though it might be very sensible to repair them. So from here I would also like to express a very strong wish that we should have a look at that repair limit. It is simply untenable and stupid if you can repair a car, that you do not do it because of some politically fixed limit, because we basically believe that we should work for more cars to be repaired rather than to be scrapped. In examining the consultation answers and the consultation note, we also took note of what the rapporteur of the Left pointed out, namely that it is pointed out from several quarters that the monitoring efforts to ensure that the rules for proper environmental treatment of the cars used are complied with are not satisfactory. And we can read out that the Danish Environmental Protection Agency has organised some workshops and is working on improved guidance in relation to the supervision and the supervisors from the municipality. But I think we need to clarify in connection with this bill why it is that it is so difficult for the municipalities to fulfil their supervisory obligation and why it is that this criticism of lack of supervision is raised. We would like to see this further illustrated. However, as I mentioned in my introduction, the Enhedslisten can support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117144516	Thank you. Then it's mr. Danny K. Malkowski, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117144530	If it should have been passed by, I can tell you that the Liberal Alliance is not in favour of the accumulation of taxpayers' money in the Danish treasury. This is also the case here, where the existing system of a premium payment for scraping at a registered autocutter has been found to generate a profit. The scheme is financed by car owners themselves as an annual environmental contribution through statutory liability insurance. However, the system must, of course, balance between payments and payments and not accumulate a surplus that does no good. That is why, of course, we in the Liberal Alliance can also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117144602	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117144609	Thank you. The alternative can also support this bill. We think it is a good thing to have an increased incentive to return your car correctly. However, we are a little concerned about whether we reach a reasonable level and we read in several consultation answers that perhaps there is a need to look at supervision. And we're thinking that by just raising the amount from $1,500. DKK 2,200. It may be limited how far we actually go in that direction. After all, we would like all cars in Denmark to be delivered for proper scrap, and that could be done, for example. be a possibility that the contribution of DKK 101 is retained. and then used some of the profits that are to strengthen supervision. But of course this requires a slightly different combination of the proposal. Then I would like to mention that what both DF and now Enhedslisten have mentioned, with the repair limit of 65%. We have also considered the inappropriate aspects of this. And it would be nice to have that problem looked at on occasion. We therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117144729	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117144739	Thank you very much. And on the part of the Radical Left, we also think it is quite reasonable that what is paid in the premium and what is paid in the compensation for scrapping should be more or less in line with each other. What we could consider in this context was whether one could raise the level of when a car could be recycled. There has been quite a lot of annoyance that cars are scrapped, even if they are damaged, and it could be considered whether some of the money could be used to actually raise the percentage of when cars can be recycled. But we will then look at this in the committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117144816	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117144823	I'll be brief. Old cars without license plates, which are all sorts of places because it is too expensive to get rid of them, no one can be served with. We must do what it takes to get people to deliver their old scrap-and-drop cars to a professional scrap-and-drop who also ensures that the scrap is handled environmentally securely and that as much of the material is recycled as possible. That is why we support in the SF the proposal to increase the scrapping allowance and reduce the environmental contribution so that there is no continued accumulation of surpluses in the scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117144902	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117144909	Thank you. The aim of this bill, which has been mentioned by several previous rapporteurs, is to restore this balance between revenue and expenditure in the scrapping scheme. The fact that the scheme must be financially neutral and aim for balance over a four-year period is a principle that we, the Conservatives, support. And since we now see that a deficit in the scheme has turned into a surplus, we must, of course, regulate the environmental contribution down, i.e. the contribution that Danish car owners pay annually along with the liability insurance which is compulsory. Making it cheaper to be a Dane and lowering taxes does not happen every day here in the Assembly Hall, so we can rejoice a little, even if it is only DKK 17, while at the same time we can enjoy a well-functioning system that ensures that we manage our wasted cars in an environmentally sound way. With these comments, I can say that we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117145008	Thank you. And then it's the Minister for the Environment and Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117145012	Thank you for that, President. And thank you for the comments made by the rapporteurs. The car scraping system has been in place since the year 2000 via a broad political majority. The scheme ensures that car owners deliver their wasted vehicles for environmentally sound waste treatment, as car owners receive scrap compensation if they deliver the car to a legal environmental processor. The scheme has lived up to its purpose and still does so, as it results in many cars being handed over for legal scrapping. And we have to decide whether the amount of the environmental contribution needs to be adjusted. We did so by 2013, when the environmental contribution was increased from DKK 60. DKK 101. At that time, consideration was given to whether the additional incentive provided by the scheme was still necessary. The consideration was whether producer responsibility and compulsory delivery for proper environmental treatment could adequately address environmental concerns. The assessment was then that a well-functioning scrapping scheme reduces the risk of vehicle owners opting for illegal scrapping and that, therefore, the number of abandoned cars would increase without the scheme. That remains the assessment. But this year there is a need to reduce the environmental contribution of DKK 101. for 84 kroner. We can do this because in recent years too much money has come into the scrapping scheme, which must rest in itself. The surplus is expected to be phased out by 2020. At the last change in law in 2013, the scrapping allowance was also adjusted, it was reduced from DKK 1,750. 1,500 kroner. The adjustment of the scrap compensation was made by means of an amendment to the notice. At that time, it was decided that the effect of reducing the scrap payment should be evaluated in 2015. Deloitte, at the request of the Danish Environmental Protection Agency, has examined the effect of the scrap payment, including the reduction of the compensation. Deloitte's analysis generally concludes that the remuneration leads several car owners to scrap their car with a legal scraper. However, the analysis also points out that there are still a considerable number of illegal scraps. That's why I'm going to raise the allowance from $1,500. $2,200, as I expect it will end many of the illegal scraps. The new remuneration is expected to reduce the illegal market share from 25%. 10%. This must be done both in order to meet the industry, to maintain jobs and, above all, to ensure that cars are delivered for legal and environmentally sound waste treatment. It is both a question of avoiding environmental damage and of making the best use of the cars that have been used out, and in this way we are doing something good for both the industry, consumers and, above all, the environment. An increase in compensation is not expected to solve the problem of illegal cutting. Therefore, there are a number of additional measures to strengthen the incentives for legal scrapping. And just to address the point raised by the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, yes, there is today a list where you can see the recognised scrap sites, which you can always check in relation to possible cheating. Then there will also be a scrapping campaign, an information campaign that seeks to promote the legal scrapping of cars by informing citizens that a scrapper who is not registered on the list of authorised scrapers and who does not comply with environmental rules is operating illegally to the detriment of the environment and society. At the same time, the campaign points out that the use of unregistered scrapers is illegal. The campaign also seeks to inform about proper behaviour in relation to the handling of worn-out cars and about the possibility of receiving compensation for scrap. Deloitte's analysis also indicates that citizens want to protect the environment and comply with legislation rather than gain an illegal financial gain. The Danish Environmental Protection Agency's experience, Deloitte's evaluation and information from sources in the industry show that citizens typically act in good faith when they deliver their wasted cars to an illegal scrapper. Therefore, targeted public awareness efforts are important to ensure proper environmental treatment of cars. I therefore propose that the environmental contribution be reduced, as car owners should pay no more than necessary. In these words, I would like to see a good discussion of the proposal in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117145425	Thank you. Then it is Pia Adelsteen, the Danish People's Party, for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117145427	Just a brief question. I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech that the Danish People's Party would very much like to see this so-called percentage of when a car is totally damaged set up so that we might be able to retain more of these cars. What does the Minister say about such an idea?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117145446	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117145448	This is not something that lies within the framework of this proposal, but it is clear that it is essential to look at what we use and recycle, for example, cars throughout the circular economy. So this is not something the government is opposed to; it's just not part of this legal procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117145505	Then no one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117145518	The debate is open. It's first, sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117145530	Climate change is a reality. Specifically, it means more intense weather, including at home. In several municipalities across the country, therefore, citizens experience more frequent floods, for example in Roskilde and Egedal municipalities, where storm Bodil 3 years ago forced up to 800 families from house and home. Hundreds of homes were under water. Floods of this magnitude are a huge burden on the citizens concerned; citizens who for many months have to live with the trouble of the flood and who often have to live with the fear of new floods for many years. Especially the children pay a price for such insecurity. Flood cleanup is also extremely expensive. According to the Storm Council, more than 400 million have been paid out to the affected areas at Roskilde Fjord alone. kr. in compensation as a consequence of the storm Bodil. For this reason, the Social Democratic Party launched a coastal analysis to describe the need and ensure that the solutions put in place in cooperation between the municipalities and the landowners became holistic solutions that do not merely push the flood problem to the neighbour. L 78, which we are now discussing, is an expiry of the coastal analysis, and the law must allow for a simpler and faster process in the municipalities with regard to the implementation of concrete coastal protection projects. Specifically, it is a question of bringing together the right of appeal and the consultation obligations in connection with municipal coastal protection cases so that complaints can only be made when the municipal council's overall project is ready on the drawing board. At the moment, complaints about sub-decisions may mean that coastal protection projects will be postponed for a very long time. There are examples of coastal protection projects standing still for many years. The law also allows municipalities to obtain expert assistance earlier in the project, so that the final plan with an increased probability can be approved by the Nature and Environmental Complaints Board if a majority of the municipal council chooses to promote a coastal protection project. Social democracy supports providing municipalities with better tools to deal with climate challenges, and we therefore support the proposal with the remark that we should have looked at whether the involvement of citizens in the planning phase of coastal protection should be strengthened in relation to what is on the table now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117145807	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117145813	Thank you very much. I would just like to hear what the Social Democrats think about what is in the proposal to halve the consultation period from 8 weeks to 4 weeks.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117145823	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117145825	It follows from the law on plans that the consultation period is generally halved, and that is what the draft law also follows. We can discuss it in committee but, as a starting point, I believe that the consultation periods should be followed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117145846	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117145849	But does the Social Democrats basically believe that 4 weeks is sufficient for such cases here, which can be relatively complicated and when the times can be during the summer break or during other periods? In other words, there is the possibility of extending it for the municipalities, but there is no obligation to do so. Is it not to pull the process in the wrong direction and the possibility of democratic influence in the wrong direction?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117145911	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117145913	Democratic influence and the ability of the citizens to be heard are, of course, crucial, and therefore I also think it is important to mention that the municipalities are in fact a little contrary to what Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding says that they should not plan the consultation period of 4 weeks over, for example, the summer holidays or the Christmas holidays. They shall take into account the time of the year of the consultation period.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117145935	Thank you. There are no more comments. Then it is Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117145943	Thank you. The Danish People's Party is not part of the Coastal Protection Act, which is currently in force. Back in 2006, we said no to it because we believe in principle that coastal protection should be a task for the state. There is a history of the West Coast getting paid and North Zealand not getting paid. And there are many challenges, because we are, after all, a country with very many islands. We are a country with 7,300 km of coastline • I think I have heard that number so many times that I could say it in my sleep and there are great challenges in terms of how we shore-proof. I would say that, in principle, we in the Danish People's Party feel that it is not, of course, because the coastal protection law as such is wrong when you look at the main objective, namely to protect people and protect values from erosion for the sea, etc. That's quite excellent. What is the problem is that there are eight considerations to be taken into account, and gradually it has become so that consideration weighs more heavily than the purpose itself. That is why, when we are around Denmark, we see houses falling into the sea. We see people who are really affected by the fact that their values are challenged, to say the least. We see it in North Zealand, we see it in South Zealand, and we see it everywhere in Denmark. And that's a big problem. Therefore, we also liked to see in the Danish People's Party that the Coast Protection Act was changed so that it may well be that some consideration has to be taken into account, but that it must always be the case that the purpose is the most important one. Nevertheless, we are positive about this proposal because it is actually an improvement. It is so that when you look at the way in which the processing time is going on today, there are examples that, if you have made a project and want to secure your property and your values and yourself, because of the possibility for complaints today, in such cases it can take as much as ten years. It's just grotesque. In the ten years, every time it gets autumn, you can sit and look out the window, look at the sea, look at the waves and then hope that there won't be a Bodil, or whatever all these storms have of names, and roll your property into the sea. It's just not okay. It is not at all when we are dealing with holistic solutions, as we see in Roskilde, as we see in Slagelse, which we see in many places. So, of course, this is something that needs to go a little bit faster. And what is the problem, and which I think this proposal solves, is precisely that you can complain in the various processes, and that is why the procedure takes so long. This does not mean that you cannot complain about a decision, because if, and this is what the proposal is really about, it is a project and the project is clear, you can complain about the project. You can complain that the municipality says yes or no or goes to the right or left. You can complain about that, but you cannot complain throughout the course of the proceedings, and I think that is quite excellent. There are, however, some small things I wonder about. The draft law states that the municipality will be given the opportunity to bring an action without any prior indication of interest from the citizens concerned. And when I read it, I thought that means that the municipality of itself is going to say that we need a coastal protection project here. No citizens are interested in it, but we are. I just find it hard to imagine that this should be the case anywhere, because I think that if there are citizens near any water that is removing their land, they will be interested in making some moves. But it may be that in my imagination up in my head there has not been an opportunity to find such an example, it is possible. In the Danish People's Party we support the proposal. This is a positive development. And then we also hope that at some point we can do something more in terms of changing the coastal protection law so that it really comes in and actually meets the purpose it actually has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117150351	We thank the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beazley's report. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117150405	Thank you. First reading today Bill No. L 78, which is a follow-up to the coastal analysis presented back in September. Denmark is one of the countries in the world that has the longest coastline in relation to our area, and we have seen several times the violent forces that nature has. We have seen that our coasts, buildings, roads and other values have been damaged close to the coasts when the storms have raged, that is to say that it is precisely on coastlines. So there is good reason to focus on it and dealt with it. Therefore, we have now identified the risk of flooding and erosion along the Danish coastline, and now we are acting as a follow-up to the coastal analysis. This bill, L 78, is one of several initiatives designed to ensure that we can better protect our coasts from flooding and erosion. L 78 should ensure a simpler and faster process for municipal coastal protection cases, and we have seen examples of cases that have been delayed and have only been settled after nearly 10 years. It goes without saying that it is far too long when it comes to matters that must help to ensure greater coastal areas and safe conditions around the coasts. L 78 brings together the right of appeal in the case of coastal protection so that only the final decision can be complained of, and L 78 also provides a clear framework for the proceedings of local authorities and gives local authorities more freedom to involve citizens at a later stage in the process than is the case today. This is a legislative proposal designed to make the process more flexible and to ensure that we do not have cases that are dragging on unfairly. Hopefully this will be a joy both to the municipalities and to the citizens and to the pilots concerned. The Left, therefore, will of course vote in favour of L 78. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117150620	We thank the rapporteur. There are no brief comments and we go further in the rapporteur's report to Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117150643	As the Socialist rapporteur has said, climate change is already here today, and it is felt everywhere on the planet. We have more storms, more rainfall and more drought. Climate change is already causing people to flee and to cost lives. Fortunately for us, we are not as hard hit in Denmark as we are in other parts of the world, but here too we are experiencing the consequences of global warming. We see rising water levels, storms and clouds, and it pushes the coasts and causes floods, among others. in the cities. That is why it is so important for us in Denmark to have a priority for the protection of our coasts and to be put in place in time on the coastlines we consider to be protected. The legislative proposal we are discussing today must make it easier and simpler for municipalities to implement projects to protect the coasts. In the Enhedslisten, we believe that there are a great many sensible elements in the bill. We are in favour of bringing together the right of appeal so that we can only complain about the final project and not continuously. We certainly also support the creation of larger, coherent and holistic solutions, and we support the achievement of the same rights and obligations as landowners of all land owners who gain protection or any other benefit from a coastal protection project. As I said, there are several very good elements in this bill. However, we believe that there are also some problems, especially with regard to ensuring the involvement and consultation of citizens who may be affected by a coastal protection project. We believe that it is absolutely essential that the citizens concerned are involved early in the process, and we do not believe that the mandatory section 3 meeting so far should be done voluntarily. And we can also see significant problems in the fact that citizens should only be heard by a digital letter with a link to a website where you can follow the progress of the project. This seems to us to be a form of one-way communication and not real involvement and consultation. Last but not least, we are critical of shortening the consultation periods from 8 to 4 weeks. In the coming committee we will be asking a number of questions which, on the one hand, can shed light on the consequences of the proposed restrictions on the involvement and consultation of citizens, and, on the other hand, we will be tabling a specific amendment on the consultation deadline. So, in the light of the detailed questions and discussions in committee, we will await our final position on the overall legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117150941	We thank the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Danny K. Malkowski, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117150947	The Liberal Alliance believes that the changes introduced by this bill are a right step to take a step that will ensure a more effective process of establishing holistic coastal protection around Denmark. The amendments include: the possibility of past and more flexible involvement of both affected citizens and the Coastal Directorate for sparring and advice. In addition, in the future, all citizens concerned will have the opportunity to ask the municipality to initiate the process. Last but certainly not least, the right of appeal will be brought together so that only the final decision of the municipality can be complained about. The changes will probably, overall, mean greater consideration for local conditions, better dialogue between citizens and the municipality and the Coastal Directorate and, at the same time, improve the possibilities for coastal protection in vulnerable places, in constant harmony with coastal nature. Also without a grueling complaint process, as we know it today, where a number of complaints with suspensive effect can delay obvious and necessary projects almost indefinitely. The Liberal Alliance therefore also supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117151050	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments here either, so we move on to Mr. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117151056	Coast protection is and remains Sisyphus work. It is very difficult to protect the coast, especially when you do it in small bites, and coast protection has been a feature of this for many years. It is the private initiative that initiates some things that get a little random distribution around the country. That is why it is a very sympathetic intention that lies in this legislative proposal which ensures that the case process, the right of appeal and so on. simplified and streamlined. But we do not agree with the means of creating this better process. Several of the consultation responses express concern about the involvement of citizens by the municipal council. There is no evidence to say that it will result in less dissatisfaction and fewer complaints with what is being proposed here in the proposal. On the contrary, there is evidence that the better the basic owners concerned are involved early in the process, the easier it is to take account of their proposals and objections. This increases the chance that the project will later be adopted without significant complaints and delays. It is something like this. The Board of Technology specifies with reference to studies they have carried out in this area. To postpone citizen involvement to a later date, which is one of the key elements of this proposal, would therefore restrict democracy. In the alternative, we want to strengthen the involvement of citizens, which is why we cannot support the proposal as it stands right now. But we are, of course, prepared to discuss it in committee. In addition, the draft law will limit the consultation period to 4 weeks, when there is normally 8 weeks time limit. There is also a concern about this among several of the consultation parties • The Technology Council and other organisations. 4 weeks is a very short period for interested parties to get acquainted with some often complicated cases and deal with them in a qualified manner. The draft law also provides that municipalities may choose to contribute in their capacity as public authorities, in addition to contributing as landowners or the like, which may obtain financial protection or other advantage from the measure. This provision on municipal financing, in addition to the utility principle, considers the National Association of Municipalities to be inappropriate, as it opens up unrealistic expectations of what taxpayers should finance for their respective landowners. The KL therefore believes that it is absolutely essential that all contributions should be justified on the basis of the utility principle, and we also believe that this is an important point which we take up in the alternative. Then DN points out that the cases concern the protection of the coast of several properties over long distances and will therefore typically be subject to a screening obligation, according to the rules set out in Annex 2 to the EIA Regulation and which will often result in an EIA statement. It lays down certain consultation and complaint periods and therefore the whole legislative proposal may in fact be superfluous. If the projects are not subject to the EIA Statutory Order, the adjustments in the draft law will mean that the municipal council itself can fix the consultation period if the project changes after the original consultation period. Here DN proposes that it should really be 8 weeks and at least set at 4 weeks. So, overall, we are critical of the way in which the proposal has been put together right now, but we would like to see improvements and the possibility of being positive in the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117151502	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117151506	The coasts of Denmark are very special. It is really the last untouched nature we have left, it is something that is quite unique to our country, and it is an area that we should have an overview of what it is for some parts of the coasts where we want there to be free development and what it is for some parts of the coasts we need to have protected, so that we stick to the values and get properly planned about it. So, on the part of the Radical Left, we would like to see a real plan for coastal protection in Denmark. In the draft law, L 78, which we have before us today, there are both some good things, and there is something we might be a little more concerned about and which we will ask about in the committee process. What we are glad about is that the rules are simplified, and there is broad support for that too. We are more concerned about the involvement of citizens in the process, for example, it is simply too late for this. The landowners get involved? A better solution and a better process will not be achieved if they are taken into account in the past, as several people point to both the Free Air Council and agriculture pointing to the same thing in this context. Furthermore, we are not happy that the time limits for complaints are reduced from 8 weeks to 4 weeks. I know it is a minimum rule, but there will still be links where it is simply too little. It is good that complaints are allowed to go to the name and not to the ministry, and I would like to commend the fact that the ministry has held on to that. We will go in and ask some of these things in committee before we finally decide whether we can support the overall legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117151653	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mrs. Trine Torp, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117151656	In the SF, we support proposals that support joint holistic coastal protection solutions... a focus that is also in the recently published coastal analysis. The coastal analysis was commissioned by the former Minister for the Environment Kirsten Brosbøl and was intended to have an overall assessment of the situation on the coasts, i.e. a comprehensive picture of where the risk of flooding and erosion is greatest, thus providing an updated basis for discussing how to ensure future coastal protection based on where the need is greatest. The analysis should provide a basis for a political discussion of the coastal protection law. I have to say that if this bill is the only thing the government intends to do on the basis of the coastal analysis, the money has somehow been wasted. If the analysis were to be used for what it was intended, it should also form the basis for a long-term plan for the protection of the Danish coasts in the light of climate change. It is also essential that solutions are found for financing, for example. the idea of a national fund, which some have aired. Financing is the crucial barrier to the absence of holistic, coherent and long-lasting solutions. We need a national plan for coastal protection. And we have just been on a study visit with the committee in North Zealand and seen why such a plan is needed, and we also have a hearing next week here at Christiansborg about it. However, in relation to the proposal we are discussing today, we are positive about the part of the purpose of the draft law which is to create a simpler process for municipalities in terms of creating holistic solutions, i.e. to bring together the right of appeal and some of the other good proposals. However, we are concerned about the reduction of citizens' rights in the legislative proposal. It is fine to try to build up the system, as in other areas within the Ministry's area of responsibility, but it makes no sense to limit the consultation period to 4 weeks instead of 8 weeks. I do not know whether it is a general aim of the government to cut back on the consultation periods. The draft law amending the law on plans, which has since moved to the Ministry of Business and Growth, also proposes 4 weeks instead of 8 weeks, and we think it is an incredibly bad idea to shorten the consultation period if you really mean something by involvement and the citizens' right to be heard. In order to be sure that all the landowners concerned are consulted and involved, minimum requirements are required for the involvement of citizens by the municipality, including that they are not involved too late in the process. It is not enough for the municipality to be able to do so. We hope that in the work of the committee a majority can be created for changes that guarantee citizens' rights, and until then we will be waiting.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117151958	Thank you. There are no brief comments. I agree that negotiations are the important thing here in the Folketing, but I would ask that this be a little more subdued, because the negotiations that are currently taking place are very loud. Here you go, Mrs. Mette Abildgaard, Conservative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117152011	Thank you. In September we had the long-awaited coastal analysis published. This helped to highlight some of the shortcomings that have been linked to the handling of coastal protection cases. At the same time, I also believe that most of us in this Chamber have followed the case very closely from the municipality of Roskilde and the municipality of Egedal, and I believe that these things together are the reason why we are today dealing with L 78. Here we will have some necessary changes made which I just want to make a few comments along the way. After all, when the municipal council decides whether to apply for a permit for the establishment of common coastal protection, it is done because no agreement could be reached locally. Therefore, the municipal council enters the case. Unfortunately, with the current rules, such protection projects have a low rate of implementation and mention is made, among other things. The explanation for this is that it is possible to complain about all these sub-decisions during the process, and this helps to drag the process out very far. It is stalling and preventing good projects from being carried out. With this new legislative text, it will only be possible to complain about the municipal council's final decision, which we support. But that does not solve the problem alone. I have to say that. We need to bring down the processing times so that citizens do not run the risk of having their homes flooded because the system is too slow and bureaucratic. I understand the frustrated citizens of Roskilde and Egedal. A whole year's processing period creates the risk of new flooding for over 500 properties at Jyllinge Nordmark and Roskilde Harbour, because the construction of the protective dikes cannot get started until the Nature and Environmental Complaints Board has dealt with their case. Very few citizens are blocking the security of many citizens until April 2017. We should be able to do better than that. But this bill is moving in the right direction, which is why we plan to back it up. I think that some concerns have been expressed today about the issue of consultation deadlines, which I actually think are quite relevant. It is true that in a number of areas the law restricts the consultation period from 8 weeks to 4 weeks. This is not something that we in the Conservatives supported, but that is how it is in the course of negotiations. Everyone must give and take. But I now remember that, when we had debates on the EIA here in the Parliamentary Chamber not so long ago, it actually succeeded, among other things. Conservative pressure to maintain the consultation deadline of the 8 weeks. So let us try to discuss it during the committee procedure, and in any case it must at least be made clear that it should not just be optional for a municipality to send anything in the middle of the summer vacation with a month's deadline. I do not fully recall the precise wording of the legislative text in order to be able to say whether what it is now before us is an invitation or a demand, but it is clear that there should be no consultation in July for four weeks. It's self-evident. I also hope that no municipalities would have the imagination to do so, but that is why we can make sure from a legislative point of view that this will not happen. I hope we can have a good discussion on this in the committee work that awaits us.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117152328	Thank you to Mrs Mette Abildgaard. We move on to the Minister for the Environment and Food. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117152333	Thank you for that, President. Let me start with one clarification, because I understand there are some doubts about these consultation deadlines. It is not a question of reducing the consultation period from 8 weeks to 4 weeks. It is a minimum of four weeks. It's never been eight weeks. It is planned to be 4 weeks. Then I hope it is in place for everyone. I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their contributions and for their support. After all, we are a small country with a very large coastline, as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party also pointed out, 7,300 km. We have all seen, on our own or through the media, that there are places around the country where coastal protection and floods, when we have big storms, pose challenges for landowners with properties close to the sea. To see cottages that go to sea, to lose the property that may have been in the family for generations, makes a great impression on us all, as well as when we see that people in their private homes are being hit by floods with enormous consequences. It is something we are concerned about doing something about. Allan, Bodil, Egon and Gorm are four powerful storms we have experienced in recent years. We may experience this as unusual, but according to climate scientists, we need to get used to and adapt to more and stronger storms over Denmark. The expected stronger storms and sea rises will, of course, be a challenge for Denmark with our many and long coastlines. It is important that our legislation is up to date and allows municipalities and citizens to adapt to future climate change in time. I would like to thank the previous government for having launched the coastal analysis... has for the first time given us an overall picture of the challenges of coastal protection in Denmark. The analysis shows, among other things, that a great many places have already been protected from coastal erosion and floods where the need is greatest. There are also some places where there is a need that has not yet been met, and the government has a focus on guiding and supporting landowners and municipalities in finding solutions. The coastal analysis also shows that coastal protection is implemented most cost-effectively as a whole for longer distances or larger areas. The country's municipalities generally have an important role in establishing holistic solutions for coastal protection. The municipalities have among other things: in the context of the coastal analysis, pointed out that they find it difficult to implement holistic solutions due to a challenging and lengthy process of disagreements between citizens on financial contributions and other matters. The government has therefore also decided to step up the counselling efforts towards the municipalities so that the number and implementation rate for overall solutions increases. Why is holistic solutions good? Yes, because you only export a problem further up the coast if you don't get holistic solutions that are technically good. The draft law introduces a number of new possibilities for a simple and rapid process in the municipalities with regard to the implementation of holistic solutions in accordance with Chapter 1a of the Coastal Protection Act. The right of appeal in connection with the municipal coastal protection cases shall be brought together so that only the final decision of the municipal council can be complained of, whether it is a refusal or a decision to pass the project on to the approval of the Coastal Directorate. It is important for the government that the consumption of resources in each municipality can be kept calm and that the resources of the municipalities are spent where the need is greatest. The municipal council will therefore be able to obtain expert advice from the Coastal Directorate early in the process with the bill. The involvement of citizens by the municipal council is also moved to the time of a specific project. This provides a better framework for citizens to submit concrete comments on the project. We maintain the right of appeal, which is important for a liberal government, but it will be brought together at the time when it is most relevant, namely when the municipality has one single project clearly. Finally, we will leave it to the municipal council to assess whether a meeting with the real estate owners concerned is appropriate in a specific case. I am glad that there are already municipalities working on comprehensive solutions, for example. on Roskilde Fjord and on the north coast of Zealand. This bill helps to give local authorities a hand in simplifying the legal process, and the bill establishes a good balance between faster procedures and the preservation of citizens' legal certainty. Of course, I hope for broad support and also look forward to the continued examination of the bill. I would just like to point out what the Conservative rapporteur said about the time of complaint, among other things. in the Nature and Environmental Complaints Board, that this is something the government fully agrees that we must do something about. That is why we have now set out to add, I think it is 23 million. kr. to the processing plus to free employees to support the processing. Because it must not be the case that complaints, which few submit in relation to many in a comprehensive solution, lie too long in our complaint system. No one is benefiting from this, and certainly not from those citizens who are at risk of flooding their property.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117152901	There is one brief comment from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117152906	Thank you very much. As far as I remember, at some point in the planning act, the deadline for consultation is reduced from 8 to 4 weeks, and when you make this bill, you have to decide where it is you put the cut. And this is where a number of organisations say: instead of putting it as low as the four weeks, we should not use, for example. what applies to the EIAs and instead of putting it at 8 weeks, so we give people a greater chance to give their opinion on some things that can be really important for many people and that can affect them very closely. So I just want to hear the Minister's opinion on whether you could look at taking the EIA consultation deadline for the 8 weeks that have been raised by several organisations. And then I would just like to ask these four weeks: if you leave the four weeks during the summer holiday, or at least put the deadline for consultation in the summer break, is there any obligation to extend it beyond the four weeks that you should take? This is how I read the Danish Environmental Protection Agency's review here that it should be taken into account that it is in a summer holiday, but I suppose there is no obligation to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117153014	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117153015	Thank you for the questions. It always annoys me when I have to disappoint Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding. In relation to the consultation time: i.e., the EIAs are so extensive that it makes sense to have a longer consultation time, but when it comes to these kinds of cases, which typically will also have had prior attention in a local area, the government considers that 4 weeks are appropriate. I simply cannot remember whether, in relation to the four weeks, you are obliged to extend them if you put them over a Christmas or a summer holiday. It is certainly a good idea that as a municipality you do not do so, and since most municipalities have an interest in conducting a proper consultation process with their citizens, I would be surprised if you did so.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117153100	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117153101	I shall then put it as a written question, because it is somewhat unclear to me. If it turns out that you can put it in the middle of a summer holiday, then 4 weeks is really short. Could the Minister not reconsider, if it turns out that there is no obligation to extend this consultation period, also because there is in fact a very late involvement of citizens in the legislative proposal? It has to be when the project is final. It speaks for an even greater relevance to the fact that we are expanding and giving people an increased chance of being allowed to relate to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117153137	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117153138	I will certainly not refuse to consider it. I'd like to say that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117153142	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked for the floor, so the negotiations have ended. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117153158	The debate is open. Sir. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117153213	The purpose of this draft law, which we are now examining first, is to extend two transitional arrangements which are contained in the current law on the keeping of dairy cattle and the offspring of dairy cattle. Basically, the bill is about giving a hand to the needy dairy farmers by postponing the requirement for modernisation in their stables. Overall, the government's proposal has two parts. The first part is about extending the transitional period for the phasing-out of binding stables from 1 July 2022 to 1 July 2027. The use of electrical aggregates during the transition period will continue to be possible in the housings and young animals kept on fully divided floors can also continue to be kept there. At the same time, the government will demand that the cows go to grass during the summer months and that bindings be used to give the cattle more freedom of movement. Despite these conditions, we in the Social Democratic Party are concerned about the animal welfare deterioration resulting from this part of the bill, especially in view of the fact that the vast majority of cows in the hind stables already go to grass every summer. The second part of the proposal is part of an agreement concluded by the Social Democratic Party with the Danish People's Party and the government earlier this year. It is about postponing the requirement for rotating cowbrushes for skin care. This requirement will be deferred from 1 July 2016 until 1 July 2022 and will apply to holdings established before the entry into force of the applicable law, namely 1 July 2010. In order to ensure that animal welfare does not deteriorate, a sharper focus on skin care is introduced in the health advice. We are confident that the veterinarians can shout guard in the rifle if the animals do not have sufficient skin care by other means. In the Social Democratic Party we would like to recognise that Danish dairy farmers are currently in a difficult economic situation. That is why we also agree with the government that it makes sense to postpone the demand for cowbrushes, as we believe that it can be done without having negative consequences for animal welfare. So we can support that part of the proposal. On the other hand, we are concerned about the part of the proposal which deals with the binding houses, as we fear for the animal welfare consequences. Against this background, we cannot support the proposal in its present form, and it is our hope that in the course of the committee work we can get there, that the government will share legislative proposals in two, so that we in the Social Democratic Party can live up to the agreement to help the Danish dairy farmers, whom we entered into in constructive dialogue with the Danish People's Party and the government earlier this year.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117153508	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117153511	Thank you. I am a little surprised that the Social Democrats cannot support the postponement, as the rapporteur himself has just explained, in relation to the dairy sector. The rapporteur expresses his concern but does not justify it. And I am a little surprised that this is the way it is put dead, because it has been clarified in the legislative proposal and the animal welfare conditions have been taken into account so that it does not impair animal welfare. So I am surprised that the Social Democrats cannot support the proposal. Could the rapporteur clarify this a little?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117153546	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117153547	I'll do that. I think I referred to this in my rapporteur's speech, but I should like to clarify it a little more. I mean, for us, it's about the animal welfare aspects. A few steps are being taken which the government itself assesses are sufficient to offset the negative animal welfare consequences of maintaining the enclosures and prolonging their phasing-out. We do not believe that this is enough, nor do we believe that it was part of the agreement we reached earlier this year. Of course, the two things in the context mean that we now have to look at how things can be distributed in committee so that we can manage to live up to the agreements we are making and possibly also how we can ensure animal welfare in connection with the binding houses.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117153631	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117153632	Thank you. However, should I understand the answer that it is not entirely out of the question that, by means of a good dialogue within the committee, we will be able to clarify and clarify that it has no animal welfare implications, so can the Social Democrats support it, or have we taken a final position?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117153651	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117153652	I think it would be wrong to conclude that we can be persuaded that maintaining the enclosures has no animal welfare consequences. I still think I can give my commitment, that is, that I am not sure that I will get to that conclusion. But let us have a constructive discussion in committee. I hear the ruling party in such a way that there is an opportunity to discuss animal welfare measures that can bring things into balance, and that is what we are concerned with in the Social Democratic Party. Then you can get there and we will be happy to discuss it with the government in the committee work. I simply note that the way in which the draft law has been put forward now makes it impossible for us to vote in favour of it as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117153728	Then it's Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117153730	I would like to ask two questions. Firstly, how can the rapporteur know that it will not have any animal welfare consequences if we postpone the demand for cowbrushes? If there are no animal welfare consequences at all, that is a pointless requirement. Well, I guess it's got to make some kind of difference whether we make that demand or not. Secondly, is it really reasonable that when we do something good for animal welfare and introduce quite lenient transitional provisions, and the industry then comes and says: God, we didn't reach it despite the fact that it doesn't cost all the world to install, then they just get postponed the requirement? So how can we take ourselves seriously when we try to legislate on various animal welfare measures?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117153810	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117153811	I think it is easy to take a Parliament seriously, acting in relation to the reality there is, for example. among our cattle farmers right now. I believe that both the questioner and I share the feeling that this is a serious situation for our cattle farmers, and there are many factors that apply in this respect, but investment requirements are one of the things that affect the economy, of course. Doesn't cowbrushes have animal welfare significance? Of course they do, and that is one of the reasons why the demand for it has been introduced at the time, and that is why, in the agreement we have made with the government, we have been concerned with having a sharper focus on the animal welfare aspect that the cowbrushes provide, and we do so through the health advisory agreements that lie there. I'm actually comfortable with that. But this is a balancing act, on the one hand, to help a crowded industry and, on the other hand, to ensure that it does not impair animal welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117153902	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117153903	This is not the first time that agriculture has come when the deadline for fulfilling certain requirements has drawn nearer and has said: 'Oh, we did not achieve that.' Sometimes you have to stick to it and say: it may be, but animal welfare also has to weigh heavily. Does the rapporteur not agree that investment in cowbrushes is not a very large printout for the industry and that we are talking about the fact that they have already had a reasonable number of years to implement such an action, which is not very large, but which can really have a real impact on animal welfare?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117153939	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117153940	No, I acknowledge that investment in cow brush is a significant cost. That is why this is also where we are looking when we are trying to help a profession that has been pressed very hard right now. There is a cattle exception floating in the air, there are milk prices which may be stabilising but which have been very low it is a profession that is generally very pressured. We take that responsibility and we want to help in this context. Then it has been important for us to find the balance, and we have one of those. This is done by saying that this applies to farms from before 2010 and by having a balance in the health-care agreements that lie there.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117154019	Thank you, sir. Simon Kollerup. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Lise Bech, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117154024	Thank you. This bill is about the amendment of an existing law on the keeping of dairy cattle and the offspring of dairy cattle. In fact, it deals with a temporary relaxation of certain requirements. Firstly, to extend the transitional regime of the law for binding houses until 1 July 2027 and, secondly, to postpone the requirement for holdings which are before 2010 for cows to have access to at least one rotating cow brush. It will then be postponed until 2022. It would be very good if the phasing out of binding stables followed the original plan. Approx. 8% of the total number of dairy cows is still lost in binding stables. But sometimes the world of reality is just not so simple. The industry is experiencing financial difficulties and it may be difficult to borrow money to meet these requirements, just as it is also difficult to sell and regenerate the farm because of this. This is typically about smaller herds. The cows must have sufficient freedom of movement with this proposal and their neck strap must be of soft material. The positive thing about this amendment is that there is now a requirement that cows should go to pasture at least six hours a day from April to 31 October. There will be a requirement to register which animals have had access to grassland when and on which dates. As regards the requirement for rotating cowbrushes, the same is true. We must give a hand to a profession which is in financial difficulties. So although I recognise that this is not optimal for cattle, I am aware that it is considered to be animal welfare to be justified to postpone the requirement. As part of the health advice, an assessment will be made as to whether animal welfare is sufficient for cows to have access to adequate skin care. If there are problems, an action plan will be put in place, so it will be dealt with in this way. I would like to stress that the postponement does not, of course, exempt the industry from thinking about animal welfare and the welfare of animals. But I am also convinced that the farmers affected are fully involved. Therefore, the Danish People's Party can support the bill to extend the transitional regime of the law for 5 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117154318	There is a brief comment from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117154321	I just want to know what the rapporteur understands about this animal welfare issue. After all, there is no doubt that it is an improvement in animal welfare that is being put off, and everything else equal is, after all, a deterioration in relation to what was originally there. I understand the Danish People's Party as a party that is very concerned about animal welfare. That is why I think it is a pity that, despite fairly long transitional conditions in introducing this animal welfare improvement, it is nevertheless agreed to postpone it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117154358	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117154359	We are very concerned about animal welfare. The good news is, they're all going out in the summer. I know that Enhedslisten has also advocated this with us having them out to grass. So when they're in binding stables, they're going out in the summer. As regards animal welfare and the lack of cowbrushes, this is not the way they do not have cowbrushes. But we have this thing about there having to be one cowbrush per. Fifty cows, but now it may be 55 cows per. Cowbrush. And if there is anything missing, there is a veterinary check that, like, makes us put an action plan into effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117154448	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117154449	But does the rapporteur not agree with me that it is an animal welfare deterioration that, rather than sticking to the requirement that these cowbrushes should be in place per year? 1 July 2016, is it now 5 years late?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117154506	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117154508	Yes, but we must also bear in mind that the smaller housing houses we have left are mainly owned by conventional farmers with an average age of 57 years, and for ecologists it is 59 years. So they are in many cases in the process of winding up and that is to say, in the five years we then shoot it, we solve some of the problems and others may get better economy and afford to change it. We are not going to postpone it again, I would just like to say that, because, of course, it is very important.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117154550	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117154559	Thank you. L 79 is a long-awaited bill designed to ensure that the requirement for binding and rotating cowbrushes is postponed and, of course, the Left will vote in favour of the proposal. The transitional scheme for binding stables will be extended for five years and will run until 1 July 2027 by L 79. The requirement for cows to have at least one rotating cow brush is postponed, and with L 79 this will apply from 1 July 2022. The reason why we have to deal first with this bill today is that the Danish cattle industry has major economic challenges. The industry has difficulty finding funding to make the changes that need to be made on the basis of the law on the keeping of dairy cattle and the offspring of dairy cattle. So, when we propose to postpone the requirements mentioned, it is, of course, because we consider it to be animal welfare justified. Therefore, it is also important for me to emphasise that, in order to continue the operation of a binding house as from 1 July 2022, certain animal welfare requirements must be met. The cows shall be fed to pasture during the summer season and the volumes used shall provide sufficient freedom of movement for the cows. The Left will vote in favour of L 79, which will ensure that farmers are financially insecure in a responsible way for animal welfare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117154731	Thank you. We move on in the rapporteur's line, and after the Left it is the Enhedslisten. Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117154754	This bill is intended to postpone the entry into force of the requirement for cowbrushes in cattle stalls and the requirement for the phasing-out of binding stables. Let me take the cowbrushes first. From time to time, we in the Danish Parliament agree on various initiatives to improve animal welfare in Danish agriculture and, for the sake of the industry, we always introduce rather lenient transitional arrangements, so there is plenty of time for the needy farmers to introduce these animal welfare improvements. It therefore seems a little strange that when the industry has had several years to introduce an improvement in animal welfare, it comes running when the deadline is exceeded or is very close, and says that unfortunately they did not reach it, so we have to postpone it and then we do it virtually without blinking. So what's the point? Apart from the fact that it is unfair to animals, it is quite unreasonable to all those farms that have actually taken this deadline seriously and that have found the money to invest in the legal requirement that one knew came when one can see that all those who have been indifferent or who have not found this money will only have five more years to live up to the requirement. I think it is quite important when we decide to improve animal welfare, that we also mean it and that we mean it so much that we stick to it and not just ignore the fact that the industry has apparently done nothing to comply with the legislation. This is a view of the legislation being introduced which we cannot simply ignore. In relation to binding stables, I would say that in the Enhedslisten, we are not in principle opposed to binding stables as long as the animals have the opportunity to exercise every day, and as long as we prohibit the use of co-trainers, as it is called, I have learned from this bill. We would therefore very much like to see no demand being made for the phasing out of binding houses at all, but to introduce in return a requirement that cows should, of course, have exercise every day. And it is comprehensive if you have to get your cows out every day, but you just have to say that it is comprehensive to keep animals in a way that is responsible and decent. Enhedslisten can't support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117155044	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Danny K. Malkowski, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117155100	Thank you very much. In the Liberal Alliance, we would generally like to help ensure good and competitive conditions for Danish business so that we can turn zero growth in the economy into positive growth and job creation. We would also like to contribute specifically to the fact that the previous difficult times in agriculture are now becoming better times, so that we can create growth throughout Denmark and more jobs in rural areas. With the bill here we have a slight adjustment to the existing law on the keeping of dairy cattle, in which a number of farms can, during an extended transitional period, continue to operate in binding stables and without cowbrushes as before. The requirements are therefore maintained, but the transitional period is extended by five years. At the same time, the draft law introduces a number of new requirements aimed at ensuring that animal welfare is sound in the binding houses during the transitional period. We believe that this is a good thing, in other words, in exchange for the extended transitional period for binding stables, a requirement is introduced that the herds should be on grass during the summer and have sufficient freedom of movement. In other words, overall, it is not a question of reducing animal welfare, but merely an extension of the existing transitional regime, with the result that farmers have the opportunity to postpone compulsory costly investments in new barn furniture. On the basis of that, the Liberal Alliance can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117155211	There is one brief comment from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117155215	Does the rapporteur not agree that when you had a deadline to introduce animal welfare improvements and you postpone it by five years, there will be a deterioration? Then I would like to ask the rapporteur to elaborate on what is meant by investment costs or the word used in relation to cowbrushes.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117155238	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117155239	With regard to investment-intensive investment, I am really just talking about the fact that we want to ensure that there is a good balance between animal welfare and the welfare of business. With regard to the second question, namely whether animal welfare is deteriorating, the draft law takes account of it and, indeed, it is deteriorating because the transitional period is extended, but, on the other hand, there are new requirements. The farmers will be among other things. required to ensure that the cows exercise by coming out during the summer and, at the same time, that the binding stable should actually be designed so that cows can move relatively freely.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117155311	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117155312	Well, that was actually a very good answer to my question: yes, there is an animal welfare deterioration by postponing the entry into force of this requirement for cowbrushes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117155322	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117155323	I do not, in fact, agree with that when you look at the proposal in its entirety. There are two things in this, not only a postponement of the transitional period, but also additional requirements.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117155331	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117155336	For the alternative, it is important that we continually try to improve conditions for animals in animal husbandry in Denmark. That is why it is good that this legislation has been adopted. The problem is that we see it as very problematic that transitional arrangements should be postponed and extended in general. As has also been pointed out by the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, this gives rise to a distortion and unequal competition compared to those who have taken new legislation seriously and adapted to it, contrary to those who have not yet reached it and who are now having a long time to adapt to the new rules. I myself am not very familiar with the precise measures contained in this proposal, but I am listening to what comes from the various competent consultation bodies here, and there are several parties expressing concern about animal welfare. That is why we cannot support the proposal. The reason for this is animal welfare, but also because we think it is an unhealthy principle to continue to extend transitional arrangements. It is not just a question of giving one year or a maximum of two years longer. There are several years in the proposal. So we cannot support it as it stands here.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117155523	Thank you. Then we'll have to ask, sir. Andreas Steenberg to interrupt the negotiations and put on the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117155537	Excuse me, President, and thank you for the floor. This bill will certainly mean that some important animal welfare initiatives for dairy cattle will be postponed for a few years. It is not an easy decision to make. Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding said that it was something that was done without blinking her eyes. That is not the case with the Radical Left. We have considered a great deal back and forth whether the economic crisis in which the dairy farmers are in really should be allowed to mean that animal welfare is deteriorating. We have discussed this back and forth, and we have heard from various organisations. Although it has been difficult for us, we choose to support this bill because we think it is a sensible way both, at least in the long term, to strengthen animal welfare, but also to get dairy farmers through the economic crisis that has arisen, especially because milk quotas have been released recently. I think it is a very good thing that when you delay phasing out stables, you require cows to go out to grass in the summer, so that they get some more movement. As far as cowbrushes are concerned, we understand that most stables have cowbrushes. Then there may be some sick bays where there are no cowbrushes, but here the cow can do so, too, with the bill that lays • get extra veterinary visits and checks, so that animal welfare can be maintained anyway. We therefore believe that, overall, this legislative proposal and the challenges to the economy of this industry have found a sensible balance in the long term, thereby strengthening not only animal welfare but also enabling agriculture to make the investments needed. So the Radical Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117155743	Thank you, sir. Andreas Steenberg. We move on to Mrs. Trine Torp, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117155747	The overall objective of this bill is to allow dairy farmers to postpone investments because of the economic challenges they face. Because of the agricultural package, the government lost the cattle exemption, and it is in this way well under way to make it even harder for cattle farmers. We in the SF want to help a crowded industry, but then it has to be done in a way that does not delay the measures we have adopted to ensure animal welfare. We cannot, therefore, support the proposal to extend the transitional regime for binding houses, which were otherwise intended to ensure a development from binding houses to barns. And even if, as compensation, we introduce requirements for grazing during the summer, which is positive in this respect, it is only a patchy solution to a proposal that slows down the development of better animal welfare. The cows need exercise and social association in the open every day. Nor can we support the proposal to postpone the requirement for cowbrushes for farms established before 2010 and do not believe that the veterinarians' assessment of animal welfare in relation to their health advice can compensate for this. Because what's new in that? They are already making that assessment today, and no new criteria have been formulated for that assessment. As the University of Copenhagen's Faculty of Health also writes in its hearing answer, the cowbrushes are a relatively small investment, so the question is whether it really has any impact on the economy of the industry. The SF cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117155922	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no one from the Conservatives, so then I will give the floor to the Minister for the Environment and Food. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117155935	Thank you for that, President. I would also like to thank the rapporteurs for their excellent contributions to today's debate. This is a constructive approach, even if we look at the solutions differently. After all, the aim of the draft law is to extend the transitional regime for binding houses and to postpone the requirement for cows' access to cow bristles for holdings established before 1 July 2010. The aim of the proposed amendments is to postpone costly investments for milk producers. The background is the low milk prices and the high debt, which means that farmers have not had sufficient income to make the necessary investments or find financing to make the investments. The Ministry of the Environment and Food has therefore carried out an assessment of all transitional arrangements under the Act based on the evolution of the cattle industry since the adoption of the Act in 2010, and at the same time an assessment has been made of the animal welfare aspects of the possibility of extending the transitional arrangements of the Act. This has resulted in the present draft law, which provided for a five-year extension of the transitional regime for tied houses. In order to ensure the well-being of the dairy cows in the stables, additional animal welfare conditions shall be imposed at the same time for the continued operation of this type of barn. In order to be able to continue the operation of a binding house, it will be necessary for the cows to be put on grass during the summer months, just as it is a requirement that the volumes used provide sufficient freedom of movement for the cows. There will be farmers who will have to make investments in order to meet the new conditions of continued operation during an extended transitional period, for example. in the form of the establishment of access to grazing land, but overall, there will be less costly investments for these holdings than if they had to be converted to loose farming. This will be particularly important for many typically older farmers who have old housing houses with smaller herds, which can thus continue to operate a little longer without large investments, since when the transitional scheme expires, these farmers will be forced to stop production. The draft law also proposes that the requirement for cowbrushes be postponed for the holdings established before the entry into force of the law in 2010. Many of these farms have found it difficult to find the necessary funding to make the investments needed to meet the law's requirements for cowbrushes. Although cow bristles make it easier for cows to carry out skin care, it is considered that the requirement can be postponed until 1 July 2022 as it does not concern the basic needs of cows, such as: is access to feed, water or rest. The proposed change helps the severely economically affected farmers, as they can therefore postpone investment in cow bristles until 2022, but the focus will continue to be on the welfare of dairy cows. Finally, I would like to point out that it is not a question of repealing the many provisions laid down by the law in 2010 to improve the welfare of dairy cows, but merely to postpone individual provisions for economic reasons where it is considered to be possible to do so while maintaining an acceptable level of welfare. In those words, I would like to look forward to the committee reading of the draft law and thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117160238	Thank you, Minister. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be sent to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117160255	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117160320	This is a bill that includes a very small group of people, but at the same time contains great ethical dilemmas. When an adult suffers from evolutionary inhibition and thus in many ways is like a child and at the same time has sexual drive as an adult, but a sexual drive toward children arises a need to shield the children from the adult. Knowing that the person is unable to understand the consequences of his actions, it is just necessary to discuss this issue. For the child who is subjected to the paedophile assault, it does not matter that the criminal is degenerate. For that child it gives exactly the same scars on the soul, whether the criminal is evolutionary or not. The criminal or the handicapped adult will be convicted of his crimes, but will be sentenced to social measures at secured and closed social education institutions. That is how we protect today against further abuse of children. This is, of course, on the basis of judgment. However, the sentenced people still have access to the Internet to some extent, and in this context, the convicted mentally disabled citizen can exercise his paedophile behavior over the net. It doesn't work by its very nature. Our legislation is old-fashioned on that point. So we agree with the Minister that something needs to be done in this area. There should be no doubt that we support the Minister in this area. However, when we read the bill here, we do not believe that the dial is completely clean with regard to the tools. For example, it is suggested that a paedophile developing person can be isolated for up to 4 hours, but this does not prevent these attacks from happening via the Internet, just as the post-op searches are mostly relevant if you want to look for hardware. We would therefore like to ask whether this legislation actually achieves what you really want. At the same time, we are, after all, more than concerned about removing access to the Internet completely. These are once convicted people who are placed in a closed environment, and we are therefore not convinced that the tools contained in this bill are entirely suited to the problem. On the other hand, it will annoy us if the whole thinking behind the legislative proposal, that is to say, by putting in place and making changes in this area, falls on the ground. That is why we are today calling on the Minister to discuss the proposal further with the parties of the Folketing, discussing the tools contained in the proposal. Is it the right ones, do they have the right effect, and how will they be put into practice out there? That is why it must be our call before we go further into the discussion of the legislative proposal here, because there is no doubt that the intention, that is to say, that we will have new tools, is necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117160719	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117160728	Thank you. The bill put forward by the government contains several elements to which the Danish People's Party needs to ask a number of clarifying questions. I will deal with these in more detail during the debate. The purpose of the draft law is to support the possibility for municipalities to ensure that the staff of secured and non-insured settlements under Section 108 of the Service Act have the necessary means of intervention to ensure the enforcement of the criminal law decision which the municipalities are implementing. The draft law proposes that the current rules be supplemented by additional means of intervention, both on non-secure and in specially secured departments, including Kofoedsminde, without a court order, when deemed necessary for security reasons, including to prevent or prevent new crime. It provides for the possibility of examining the effects of the installation, the introduction of the possibility of opening and checking the mail to the person seated. In addition, it is proposed that the current rules should be supplemented by the following additional intervention options only in specially secured departments such as Kofoedsminde: study of effects, including bags and packages brought into the accommodation of visitors, and storage of effects during the visit; introduction of the possibility to lock the accommodation of the accommodation of the person placed for the night as well as the possibility to lock off a specially secured section, for example. in order to establish an appropriate circadian rhythm; introduction of the possibility of using isolation rooms in connection with specially secured departments when there is imminent danger that the person will harm himself or others. The insulation shall be as short as possible, maximum 4 hours, and as gentle as possible. With regard to the possibilities of intervention for non-insured residents, we believe that we need to ask further questions about this, including the legal consequences, but also because we have all signed Section 72 of the Constitution, which says that the dwelling is inviolable. What is it like with a room offer, for example? is placed because of criminal proceedings, in the light of the Constitution and what is called your own residence? Are we risking here to carambola with the Constitution? I would very much like an answer to that. In the Danish People's Party, we recognise that special efforts are needed in the specially secured departments, including Kofoedsminde, which is a safe accommodation under section 118 of the Service Act. Among other things, this is where we live. mentally handicapped persons who have committed serious or perilous crimes and who are placed on Kofoedsminde, precisely because this group is not suitable for general prison sentences. Unfortunately, we also have, among other things. seen that a convicted pedophile continued to lure little girls into sex from a top-safe institution, although he did not have access to the Internet and mobile without supervision. There are also a number of critical consultation responses. Among other things, it says: in the hearing that the Minister should consider that the increased powers of the bill should only apply to Kofoedsminde by virtue of their special status, and I would also like us to have the Minister's comment on that. DF is concerned whether this means that the staff should have two rules on the accommodation offer, i.e. a set of rules for those who are placed under criminal law and another for those who are not. DF would like staff working in everyday life who are employed to be thoroughly trained in the use of force, how the use of force should be handled, how the use of force can be avoided and how clear guidelines for this have been drawn up on the settlement offer. We think that is also one of the shortcomings in the legislative proposal. Then there have been a number of sceptical responses to the question that there is no need to extend the current scope for intervention or that there is a need for new powers of coercion or power on social services. It is important to say that the new possibilities of intervention are based on the existing rules and the purpose of Chapter 24a of the Services Act, and that is when objectives cannot be achieved with less intrusive initiatives, for example. In this context, I would like to stress the importance of the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and preparations. This means that the intervention can only be applied to the extent that it is proportionate to the objective pursued. The draft law includes a number of impact adjustments and clarification of individual authorisation provisions in the Services Act following the adoption of the Adult Responsibility Act in May. The Danish People's Party needs to ask some clarification questions and get some answers to them, and we will of course be involved in a discussion of this. There is no doubt that there are some challenges in this area that we should like to resolve. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117161303	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Carl Holst, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117161311	The draft law concerns persons with reduced psychiatric capacity who have been placed on the basis of criminal proceedings. Paedophilia, arson, robbery, rape and violence are the main reasons why they have been placed. The aim of the draft law is to avoid the introduction of effects into these installations by carrying out investigations when there is a reasonable suspicion that there is reason to investigate in order to avoid mobile phones. There have been examples that a paedophilia sentenced person has received a mobile phone that has enabled him through it to continue access to child pornography, etc., but also examples with knives. Following this, it opens up the possibility of opening up and controlling mail on suspicion and, in general, ensuring that other effects do not enter. It's opportunities you put in place for the employees to have. These are opportunities which must be based on suspecting them. And yes, it's a procedure. Therefore, I think it is to the credit of the thing that every time we talk about increased powers and interventions, we are very careful. I think that in the further work we can uncover some of these things in order to clarify what it is that lies in the law; who it is that includes. I believe that this can be done in a way that enables us to follow with confidence the further legislative work and end up with the legislative proposal having a content that exactly meets what we are also very aware of, namely legal certainty and other things. Then it is also important to stress that it is of course opportunities that are set up for you to have on the bosses and especially in the bill focused on Kofoedsminde. After all, these are not opportunities for the skilled employees, who I am thinking of our joint settlement on settlements based on the five four-year killings that have asked for it. When I say that, it is because the security of the employees also played a part on that occasion. This security will not be exacerbated by it; on the contrary, it will be improved by focusing on preventing knives from entering the settlements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117161633	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117161643	I think that such people as us, who can just walk away and stand up and open the door, find it hard to imagine how violent it is to do it to a human being, to lock him in a room, all alone, without knowing or perhaps understanding when he will come out again or have the opportunity to talk to someone or call someone. And I say that because we are talking a little bit about it, as if the thing about locking a door for the night, or until the situation calms down, is very easy to say. But we must also, I believe, at least try to understand what is happening to people who are doing something like this and who already have a real, real difficulty in understanding and managing the world in which they live. So we are not talking about minor interventions in connection with this bill. To examine people and thus to mess with them by coercion and to look at what they have on them, to no small procedure, as you just do just like that. I don't think anyone in here would put up with it, no matter how much was said about order and security. And there are some things that, when we talk about doing this to people with a severe mental disability, gets worse because it is people who may find it difficult to understand and rationalise what is going on. When I read this bill, I have to admit, frankly, that I have not yet seen the Ministry point to the need. Well, what kind of need do you see? What kind of specific problem is it considered to be able to solve with these additional coercive measures? That is also why the Institute for Human Rights, the Social Pedagogues and the KL say that they simply do not see any evidence that these additional possibilities of intervention are necessary. There are also several of the consultation responses that point to something that I think is right: a worrying tendency for us to constantly extend the use of force to some of our most vulnerable citizens instead of trying to look at the treatment they generally receive, the resources available and how they are used and used against them. This kind of backward-looking approach is beginning to see the use of force as something that should be preventive. And I, who walked and thought that power and violence were something that had been abandoned as treatment and education. I find the Ministry's answer more worrying. You say, in a nutshell, that the evaluation shows that the intervention options that are already used are very limited and that, moreover, staff are capable of being aware of the fact that they need to be used very little. I agree with the latter. And, therefore, you can afford to introduce more possibilities of intervention. I don't understand. It is also unclear when these means of force can be used. The Ministry argues here that the Constitution does not prevent it. We should not do everything that the Constitution does not prevent, I just want to make it clear. They are people here who are exempt from punishment because of their mental condition. I mean, it's people that we say is so much in trouble that we can't, on an equal footing with everyone else, hold them accountable for their actions. We cannot really blame them in the same way as we can blame all sorts of others, because that simply does not allow their psychic abilities. And yet we are now beginning to want to use some means of force against those who are incredibly similar to those they have in prisons, for example. Isolation rooms, and I find that worrying. Basically, there are users and patients here who need a solid social education effort, and they will have no fewer problems from the fact that more coercion is being exercised against them. If anyone is in doubt, Enhedslisten is extremely sceptical about this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117162200	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Danny K. Malkowski, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117162208	Thank you. This bill will tighten the scope for intervention both on secured and non-insured settlements, where placement takes place as a consequence of a criminal decision. The specific proposal concerns the possibility of controlling items carried and the possibility of opening up and controlling the mail and investigation of effects carried by guests without their consent. In addition, the proposal is to make it possible to lock down the accommodation or a department at night and to introduce the possibility of using isolation rooms in connection with specially secured departments. These are all measures that sound rather draconian to liberal ears, but one has to note that one cannot have well-functioning psychiatric services, where the staff do not feel safe and where the residents do not either. At the same time, we cannot have a legal situation where people sit on the basis of crime and in the settlement offer have the opportunity to commit new crime. We believe that we should have a strong eye for legal certainty for citizens with a mental disability and that we should be very careful to go too far down this road. Unfortunately, however, it turns out that actions such as those described may be necessary to prevent new crime and to provide security for staff and residents. Against this background, the Liberal Alliance is in favour of the proposal and looks forward to the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117162328	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117162347	Thank you. There should be no doubt that in the alternative we think this is really difficult. It is difficult because it concerns people who are subjected to violations of staff, residents and children who are subjected to violations, and residents who are subjected to violations if coercive powers are extended too much. We believe that there are a large number of outstanding issues and relevant concerns, including in the consultation responses. We would like to try to understand what is happening to a person who is subjected to violence or violations by residents of these housing services, but we would also like to understand what is happening to a person who is locked up or subjected to other coercive measures. We think that this bill contains major dilemmas, so we need more clarification in the work of the committee, for example. in relation to the need for it and in relation to the target group for it here, then we will take a final position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117162456	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then the next rapporteur is Mrs Marianne Jelved, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117162505	Thank you. It is always very difficult when we have to deal with this kind of legislative proposal where it is a question of the staff of an institution having some kind of power. We had a lot of long discussions and very difficult discussions when we adopted the law on the use of force against children and young people placed on institutions, and therefore it is also natural that we should have a thorough committee work on the legislative proposal we are discussing here, because there are also a number of dilemmas. And, of course, we need to have the opportunity to ask questions and to clarify the points on which we feel difficult to take a position. But basically, they are people with disabilities and, of course, they have a particular vulnerability to other people simply because of their disability. It is people who have been given a criminal court ruling and where the municipalities have to carry out their punishment by placing in residence forms. And here, of course, the staff, both in secured and non-insured housing, must have the necessary opportunities to handle their task. This is where the dilemmas come in. This is done without a court order when deemed necessary, e.g. for safety reasons or to prevent damage to other or new crime, and it is essential that we ensure that staff receive the necessary training in how they handle it. And it is perhaps even more necessary to stress that the prerequisite for the use of force in certain situations is that the objective cannot be achieved with less intrusive initiatives. It is clear that everyone will think it best to have a social pedagogy effort to prevent the use of force at all. This applies in all other contexts where we have had these dilemmas in relation to legislation, and that is also true here. So the principle of proportionality must apply and only to the extent that it is proportionate to the objective can power be used. That is why it is also necessary to report all the use of force and to monitor what is happening in each institution, whether it is secured or non-insured institutions. So we look forward to constructive committee work on questions and answers as we know it, in order to clarify the dilemmas and doubts that exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117162746	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Trine Torp, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117162754	When we in the Folketing deal with legislative proposals that are about extending the scope for intervention and power over vulnerable citizens, we must always be very careful. In the SF we have the basic view of power that it is never a lasting solution to a conflict that has arisen. Social education is the way forward if people are to develop. That is why we would also like to focus on ensuring that there are enough trained staff and that they have the right skills, because that is really what also prevents a large number of conflicts. Increased powers, on the other hand, are a last resort and a final solution to a conflict which would otherwise be unsolvable. That's gotta be it. Unfortunately, I do not see the same view of the use of force in the legislative proposal that we are discussing here today. According to the words of the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior, the proposed bill focuses on this, and I quote: "the municipalities must have the necessary means of intervention for people with reduced mental capacity who are placed in a social housing situation on the basis of a criminal offence'. That is why the government now wants to extend the scope for intervention to this target group in a number of areas. It is a question of the possibility of examining whether the citizen placed has effects and of extending the possibility of opening and checking mail to the person placed. These increased possibilities of intervention must apply both to secured and non-insured settlements under Article 108 of the Services Act. At the same time, in specially secured departments such as Kofoedsminde, the rules will also be extended in relation to the control of visitors, the locking of the accommodation at night and the possibility of using isolation rooms. These are quite powerful possibilities of intervention, and for us in the SF it is absolutely essential that the powers that can be used match the needs that exist in reality. I am not sure that is the case with these new possibilities of intervention, and I am leaning on a number of the consultation answers given by professional organisations in connection with this bill. A large number of organisations therefore question the proportionality of the proposed rules. The National Association of Municipalities, which in fact represents the municipalities that the government wants to support with this proposal, calls for example. in their response to the consultation that, instead of the proposed intervention options, attempts are being made to examine long-term solutions in this area and to analyse the development of the characteristics of the target group concerned. KL therefore proposes that the increased possibilities for intervention be removed from the adult bill, and the National Association of Municipalities is supported by the Institute for Human Rights and the National Association of Social Managers and the National Association of Social Pedagogues, all of which, in their response, problematize that there should be a real need to extend the scope of intervention for the particular target group, as proposed in the bill. Your response to the consultation simply questions whether there is proportionality in the draft law. I think it is remarkable that the organisations representing the professional group which should ultimately enforce the proposed intervention options do not think that they are proportionate. I think we should take full note of that. At the same time, one can be surprised that the five social inspections, which are responsible for supervision and also have a great deal of knowledge of the area, have not been asked in the consultation process. I also believe that they could have contributed significant points in relation to the legislative proposal. I do not wish to deny that it may be necessary on a rare occasion in relation to particular target groups, and here I am thinking of a very small group, to use more possibilities for intervention, because if there is no legal basis for it, it may happen, and then the Social Protection Agency will sometimes discover it, but will have nothing to do with it. However, I believe that this is a very, very limited small group, and I think it is very violent to make a general amendment to the law for that reason. So, in relation to the bill, instead of including a special provision in the law that special agreements can be constructed around very individual citizens in cooperation with the region and the Social Protection Agency, precisely in order to prevent new crime. How such a special provision is to be further arranged could of course be one of the things that we could continue to work on in committee. We in the SF are always ready to examine whether the powers that are present today are sufficient and whether they measure up to the realities of the various institutions and departments, but in this case I think it is essential to listen to the professional organisations and other organisations which, in the majority of their consultations, do not consider it necessary to extend the scope for intervention. Against this background, we in the SF cannot back the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117163307	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117163315	The purpose of the bill is to support the ability of the municipalities to ensure that the employees of secured and non-insured settlements under Section 108 of the Service Act have the necessary means of intervention to ensure the enforcement of the criminal law ruling which the municipalities translate into the estates. The Conservative People's Party can support the bill as a starting point. We believe that it is sensible to provide the municipalities and therefore the staff with the right means of intervention to ensure the safety of both their own and their residents, the order and, at the same time, to prevent and prevent new crime. We are ready to give these tools to the municipalities, but it must of course be done in a way that will make it seem both balanced and appropriate and where it cannot be seen as harassment or in any other way escalate a situation. Gears must be used appropriately. Conversely, it is also clear that we cannot accept that paedophiles while placed on Kofoedminde have access to the Internet, through which they make contact with minors, or that the staff feel insecure at their work. This is obviously unacceptable. There's been a lot of consultation answers. It is clear that it makes an impression when there are a number of people who have expressed some concerns about the proposed measures. We are also ready to discuss this in the further work of the committee so that we can make things work in the best possible way. For us, the most important thing is to strike the right balance between ensuring that criminal decisions can be enforced in a safe manner. The safety of the staff, the safety of the other residents, security and then the need for legal certainty are important. That is why it is also important that the new possibilities of intervention should only be applied when the aim cannot be achieved through less intrusive initiatives such as: It is also important that the principle of proportionality should continue to apply, i.e. that intervention should be necessary and proportionate, and that the intervention should only be applied to the extent that it is proportionate to the objective pursued. With these comments, the Conservative People's Party is in favour of L 54.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117163536	Thank you to the rapporteur. That concludes the rapporteur's report, and I give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117163544	Thank you for that, President. And thank you to the rapporteurs. I completely agree that this is difficult. This is where you stand in a dilemma and not just think it's super, super simple to come up with this bill. Even when we look at the agenda, everything else will give cause for concern that there is talk of lockdown of rooms and departments and the creation of special isolation rooms; I fully agree with that. But let me begin by expressing my appreciation of the draft law and also of the constructive debate that we have had in this Chamber. It is quite right to say that we are talking about a very, very small target group. And the overall aim of the draft law is to enable staff to maintain order and security on the one hand, and to prevent or prevent those placed from continuing their criminal career within the institution's walls. Yes, it is true that we are talking about mentally retarded. We are also talking about people who have committed serious crimes, such as those that have been committed in the past. arson, robbery, rape or violence, and there is a risk of committing new perilous crimes. And it's only to these people that these new rules can be applied. Although it is difficult and difficult to do so, I believe that all the rapporteurs have a great responsibility to prevent, for example, the fact that the Commission is not in a position to do so. convicted pedophiles may continue to contact minors over the net. And with the current rules, it is difficult for staff to prevent their placing, for example. Smuggling cell phones onto the booth and thus accessing the Internet. That is why further intervention is needed. But, of course, I also stress that these are opportunities, and I also think it is very, very clearly described how such opportunities are used, how they are reported and how they are monitored. But I would like to make it clear here that, in the committee procedure which is to follow, I am of course available to answer the questions that come from the members of the committee and that in doing so we will continue the dialogue on the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117163832	Thank you, Minister. There are a few brief comments and the first is from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117163841	Thank you to the Minister for the speech. I would like the Minister to clarify something about the fact that this is a matter of both secured and non-insured housing, in other words, in relation to defining the difference precisely in relation to when we talk about Kofoedsminde. So in relation to what I said in my rapporteur's speech: how will the Minister ensure that the staff working every day on the accommodation offers have enough staff to carry out their duties, 2) receive training and training in handling the use of force and avoiding the use of force, so simply get training in it? Will the Minister explain this?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117163923	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117163925	First of all, I would like to say that I also remember from the rapporteur's speech that it is not the case that all of a sudden, with this draft law, the staff on the accommodation offers are about to be maneuvered with, you can say, two different rules. This is already the case today, since it is precisely the mentally retarded convicted, i.e. mentally retarded, who are doomed to being placed; therefore, there are already two sets of rules today. In order to introduce new powers, new possibilities, new possibilities of intervention, as we are discussing here, I would like to say that it is obvious that part of this work is also precisely about what the guidance in this area is like and that we must always be careful to ensure that staff are aware of what working tools they have and how they use them and, in this case, also know that the least intervention is always the first, as is the case when we discuss powers.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117164037	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117164040	In relation to the two sets of rules mentioned by the Minister, in other words, in relation to both secured and non-insured settlements, one can also discuss whether convicted persons, in other words those who have criminal proceedings, should be associated with other residents who do not have criminal proceedings. However, the second part is on how to ensure that the staff receive training in this respect, according to what the Ombudsman also said earlier in a case where, unfortunately, there was a use of force in which a person died, namely that clear guidelines were lacking in relation to this. How do you ensure training in this for the staff who work with it?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117164123	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117164125	I fully agree that it is essential that, as a professional and as an employee on one of the country's settlement offers, one is well trained and is aware of the tools that are widely available, both in relation to the ordinary resident, one can say, on a settlement offer or the sentenced mentally retarded resident on a settlement offer. As far as I am concerned, it is vitally important for any amendment to the law, for any extension of something, that we are also very specific, in terms of how counselling is handled, how it is followed up and how continuing training is carried out, so that you know what rules you are dealing with and how to use it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117164211	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117164215	Thank you. I think that these are very relevant questions that are being asked, but I would like to delve into this one a little bit about the necessity, about the need for the increased use of force. After all, we only have to do this if it is absolutely necessary in the specific situation, but it is also a necessity that we, as legislators, must take on board. The Minister cites an example of convicted convicted pedophiles who have access to mobile phones and therefore has to carry out a personal examination to see if they have that mobile phone on them. And that is polemically said, yes, but how does it prevent the making of the isolation room access to a mobile phone? There are many possibilities of intervention here, which are very violent, and I have not heard the answer to what the explanation is for all of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117164319	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117164322	The intention, as I said very briefly, when I responded to the draft law here, is precisely to be able to stem these cases, among others. convicted pedophiles. But in addition to that, stories actually show that the current opportunities within the Service Act are simply not sufficient. I do not know whether the rapporteur himself has visited Kofoedsminde and been in dialogue with the employees and gained an understanding of the composition of people living at Kofoedsminde, i.e. mentally retarded sentenced people, but there are very, very clearly and very specifically wanted and you can also read this in Danske Regioner's answers to several interventions. However, I think it is important to stress here that these are provisions of the Treaty on European Union and that these provisions should only be applied when the social-educational effort is inadequate in order to ensure order and prevent and prevent new crimes being committed by those who have been placed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117164424	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117164428	I fully understand the Minister's intention behind the proposal. I understand that. What I question is the effect. Because one can probably stand out on Kofoedsminde and ask for more options for intervention, but that does not mean that in here we are free to take responsibility for whether the intervention options that we then provide are the right ones and can work, and that it is not just something that you grasp in desperation. And that is why we must ask for an explanation and also, of course, an explanation as to why this should apply everywhere and not just at Kofoedsminde.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117164508	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117164510	It's not all the scope for intervention in this bill that's gonna apply everywhere. It is very, very important to make it clear that anyone who no doubt really raises dilemmas when talking about isolation rooms specifically applies to Kofoedsminde. The idea of being able to study the rooms of mentally retarded people is something you can already do today. Here we are also talking about being able to examine the person. And again, I would say that the intention is to stem cases that are all equal to a long history of "we're talking about convicted people who have committed perilous crime and opportunities are being sought out among the staff. And I recommend that you also read the consultation answer from Danske Regioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117164605	Mrs. Trine Torp, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117164609	I'd like to stay on the same track. Because this bill is based not only on a need expressed by the Kofoedsminde staff, but also on a legislative proposal which deals both with the possibilities of intervention at Kofoedsminde but also with other institutions. Or where else do these needs come from? Where have they been described? Because I do not see it from the consultation answers, and that is actually why I am rather annoyed that there is no response from the social services. Because they are about someone who knows the possibilities and limitations in each place. That is why I would also like to hear: is it because they have not been invited to take part in the hearing? Or why do we not have any of those perspectives?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117164659	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117164702	It's gonna be a little free from memory in relation to the hearing party and the Social Services Department. It is true that they are not part of this, and I do not think they are in general terms, but I should like to come back to that in writing. I have to point out that this is not just about the smuggling of mobile phones on Kofoedsminde. It is part of the proposal and therefore there are specific intervention options only in relation to Kofoedsminde, but the stories show that the current opportunities in the Services Act in this area are not sufficient, and here we are talking about housing offers where there are mentally retarded sentenced people. It is difficult for staff to avoid, for example, placing them. have mobile phones smuggled in and thus have access to the Internet, or have other effects smuggled in that make it impossible to prevent the criminal run. And that's kind of the purpose of providing these opportunities.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117164805	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117164808	History shows, it says. So far, I have only heard this with the paedophiles, and it is a very good example to use if you want the dilemma to be sharply drawn up. But it's a lot wider than that. So I would like to ask: what kind of target group are we talking about? What are these stories that have shown this?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117164827	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117164830	This isn't about whether it's up-to-date to pull up a proposal on Kofoedsminde. This is, as I said at the beginning, and as several of the rapporteurs have also spoken about, about a very, very small target group. We are talking about doomed mentally retarded people who, because of being mentally retarded, cannot serve in a prison, but who, in the sentence, are either serving on Kofoedsminde or serving in a settlement offer, and it is just important for me to draw attention to what history shows. So these are people who have committed dangerous crimes, and there we and the employees also have an interest in preventing that from happening, when, as it were, you are not behind closed doors in a prison, but on an ordinary residence offer.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117164919	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117164922	Thank you. As I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, in the alternative we also need some clarification in relation to what is before us, and thank you for the questions that have been asked so far, such as those relating to the environment. the need and the target group, which I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech. What I would like to ask is one of the points raised in the hearings. For example, the Lawyers' Council stresses that the use of isolation rooms in particular is a very serious intervention, and in this respect I would like to ask the Minister about the guarantee of legal certainty, which the Lawyers' Council also mentions. Can we be sure that these interventions are subject to heavy guarantees of legal certainty? And my second question is whether the Minister will deepen the balance between treatment and punishment, as some also mention, like balance. What is treatment, and what is punishment?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117165024	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117165027	In relation to the proposal on the possibility of isolation rooms, I would point out that it is precisely about Kofoedsminde. I would like to mention again that if you have visited Kofoedsminde, you also know about the physical construction of the site with the small housing units in which the different people live, and there is sometimes a need for conflict situations and there is simply a risk for both the employees and also for the lives of other citizens that you can take a person away for a short time, a maximum of 4 hours, constantly. The whole isolation intervention is very intrusive, but when that option is created, it will be exactly as it is now with the existing rules and with regard to how to use isolation elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117165124	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117165127	I would also like the Minister to answer my second question, that is to say, this is a balance between punishment and treatment. You can see the 4 hours in an isolation room as a form of punishment. In any case, one can imagine that the person who is staying there will do so. So I would just like to hear the Minister elaborate on that balance between punishment and treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117165154	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117165157	Yes, the best way to describe the balance and handling of the employee concerned, and how the employees at Kofoedsminde, for example, are to deal with this is precisely to say that it is important that the intervention options proposed here are only some that can be used when the social educational effort is inadequate. That is why we must and must also show the professional confidence that this balance can be struck, and we must, of course, report on this type of use of powers.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117165237	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Social Affairs and Home Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117165250	The debate is open and the first rapporteur is Mrs Karin Gaardsted, Social Democrat.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117165317	This bill comes to the Chamber today at the request of the Home Government Council for Health and Home Affairs in the Faroe Islands and means that the Danish Parliament will give an authorisation to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior so that she can set up parts of, among others. the adoption law in force in the Faroe Islands. The challenge is that only parts of the new adoption system for international adoption communication are put into effect in the Faroe Islands. This is usually done by a royal decree, but since this method can only be used once in relation to each law, there is now a need to give special authority to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior. In order to make the necessary changes, the Faroes' regulatory structure in the field of adoption and in other areas as mentioned by the President must be updated to correspond to the structure in Denmark. This applies in particular to the handling of complaints about adoption decisions. In order to comply with this, it is assumed that parts of previous amending legislation will be put into force in the Faroe Islands and that a provision of the adoption scheme for the Faroe Islands will be promoted and amended. The Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior does not have the authority to implement this at the moment, but with the bill the Minister will be given the authority, which means that the Minister can bring relevant provisions into force for the Faroe Islands by a royal decree. That is the wish that has come from the Faroe Islands. The Social Democratic Party naturally supports the bill, and I should like to say that so does the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117165508	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Brodersen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117165521	This bill is a coinage of L 7 from last year to ensure a better adoption law, so it will also include the adoption of children to the Faroe Islands. Of course, we in the Danish People's Party can only support this. The overall aim is to ensure the future of international adoption dissemination and to support the necessary stability of the adoption system, while also increasing the security of the adoptions implemented. The proposal must also help to support good conditions for the children who come to the Faroe Islands, but we do not in any way doubt that those in the Faroe Islands who adopt children also take good care of them. Then there is a little passage about some regulatory simplifications, and of course we have no objections to them. I am not going to prolong the debate, but only to say that with the implementation of L 57 we are making it possible to make progress on this issue in the Faroe Islands, and that is what everyone wants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117165621	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117165629	Thank you. I am not going to spend the time of the Things to recapitulate what previous rapporteurs have already very well described regarding this draft law. This is a better adoption law, which should also apply in the Faroe Islands. Implementation of the proposal creates the prerequisite for the changes to take place in the Faroe Islands, and the Minister is authorised to grant the Faroese request for entry into force. We have an interest in common legislation in this area also with the Faroe Islands and interest in updating the Faroe Islands in the adoption system. That is why, of course, the Left is voting in favour of the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117165711	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we move on to Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117165718	Thank you. I don't think I have to tell you what this proposal is about, but I would like to remind you that we were dealing with this bill, namely Act No. 1790 in the Danish Parliament 10 months ago on the basis of the mess in the economy of adoption organisations, mistakes in cases and a suspicion of child harvest, that is, where you simply find children and get them to countries where there are rich people who want them. At that time, we criticised the legislation quite strongly because it did not result from the fact that there is no right of access to own papers when you are 15 years old; that there is no right to relation to biological parents and family; that there is also no right to advice without the involvement of adoptive parents; and that cooperation has not been restricted to the countries that have signed the Hague Convention on the Rights of the Child. This made us vote against the law ten months ago. But we also have a principle that states that if the Faroese, Greenlanders or others in the Kingdom community want to be independent and on their way to independence will introduce some laws that apply in Denmark, we will not stand in the way of that. It must be the right of the Greenlanders or the Faroese to decide for themselves what laws they want in their country, and we therefore vote for the proposal alone.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117165844	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Danny K. Malkowski, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117165851	I'll be brief, too. The proposal will authorise the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior to bring into force the rule of appeal in the adoption law for the Faroe Islands and to amend the provision of the adoption regulation on complaints about refusal of approval as an adoptive. The reason for this update is that the Faroese side has requested that the adoption law be put into effect in the Faroe Islands. Once this bill has been implemented, the entire adoption law, including amending laws, can be implemented per year. Royal Decree, when the Faroe Islands have adapted their regulatory structure. For us it is also very difficult to have any objections to it, and we can therefore of course also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117165924	The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Roger Matthisen from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117165930	Thank you. As has already been said, we naturally support the fact that the Faroe Islands must be allowed to seek the independence they think they need, and this also applies, of course, when there is some legislation that they lack. So, on this basis, we can support the proposal. However, in the alternative, we are also taking the basic debate on transnational adoption, and we are highly critical. The main appeal out of many is that we see these children getting their ties cut to their families, and we simply see double standards and hypocrisy in a system, and we would never let that happen in Denmark if children were to be adopted and thus be forced to cut off all ties and not gain insight into documents. It is simply as if we were clapping on a system that is basically completely misguided and untenable. We saw it in Romania in the 1990s with children who, under false information, were kidnapped, were sold, everything was possible. We see it in Ethiopia now. We have seen countless examples in Korea. It is simply time that we talked about how to stop it; how we might change it or make a temporary stop until we have managed this unsustainable system. This is something that we are discussing in the alternative, and I would actually like to ask the Home Rule Government of the Faroe Islands to take the same discussion. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117170129	You're welcome, sir. Roger Matthisen. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Martin Lidegaard from the Radical Left. He does not seem to be here, but there is a replacement, so we are giving the floor to the Radical Left rapporteur, Mrs Zenia Stampe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117170148	Thank you. That is absolutely right. I have to inform you on behalf of Martin Lidegaard that we can also support the proposal, which is actually just about implementing the new Danish rules also in the Faroe Islands. And, of course, we can support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117170200	Thank you. The SF has spoken out, and the next rapporteur is Mr. Rasmus Jarlov from Conservatives. He is not here, and then we go to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117170215	Thank you for that, President. And thank you to the rapporteurs. I would like to start by signing for the receipt of the bill and saying that, as I said, it is intended to make it possible to bring into force the law on a new adoption system for the Faroe Islands. And with this bill, we bring the treatment of international adoptions in the Faroe Islands into line with the treatment given to international adoptions in Denmark. And the entry into force of the law has been agreed with the Faroe Islands. Quite briefly on the alternative's comment: unfortunately the rapporteur is not here, but with regard to this concern for international adoption in general, I would very much like to take an interest in having that discussion with the alternative, since we had a very, very long course of negotiations a few years back, when we actually changed significantly on the adoption legislation in Denmark, precisely in the light of some of the matters that the rapporteur expressed there and precisely in the light of that concern too. So I would almost venture to claim that we are, and at any rate insist, a little to act as a pioneer in ensuring that there are safe adoptions, information and so on. But let us take that discussion of the adoption system in general. At any rate, I note that there seems to be very broad support for this, and I would like to thank Things for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117170400	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Roger Matthisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117170407	Thank you. I mean, I recognise that adjustments have been made, but I still find it deeply problematic with the lack of supervision in relation to our transnational adoptions. However, I do not really think that we are going to have the basic debate, and we should have taken it. I would really like to ask the Minister whether it is reasonable that we, I would say, should at best be incompetent in this area or close our eyes when we hear time and again about these cases of missing papers and child harvesting. Does the Minister consider the system to be optimal today?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117170459	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117170500	I am inclined to answer: Yes. It is perhaps too much to say that the Danish system with the changes we have made is completely brilliant, but it has been tightened up very much in relation to exactly what is so crucially important, namely what it is for a history that the child in question has and how the issuing country is able to account for it. In fact, this was also the reason why I previously closed off adoption from Ethiopia. It was for exactly the same reason that there was simply a concern about the papers, that is, that security in relation to international adoption was not good enough, and it must be. That is also why we must be able to close cooperation with potential donor countries. And that's why we have to stay on our toes forever compared to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117170602	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117170603	Thank you. However, although we have had the most transparent process here, I still think that the primary and fundamental criticism is that we have a double standard. We cut the ties with these children and their families, and there is no way to maintain some normal human connection. I think that is simply a double standard in terms of how we treat children and their rights in our own country.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117170637	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117170639	Well, I would very much like to have a discussion with the rapporteur on the dilemmas of international adoption and the discussions about whether you are a supporter or an opponent of open adoptions and, incidentally, also very much like a discussion about national adoption. As far as I am concerned, I find the thought-provoking fact that national adoption is not something that is being applied at all. Yes, it is, but to a very, very small extent. And I am surprised that as a country, within its own ranks, we do not actually use that tool which could very much be open adoptions, i.e. where the child in question, adopted by other parents, is constantly familiar with and contacts with the biological parents.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117170729	There are no more brief comments, so we would like to thank the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Faroes Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117170750	The negotiations have been opened. The first rapporteur is Mrs Trine Bramsen from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117170817	Rundtom in the prisons of the country is pulsing life on the loose, and this bill does not prevent it from continuing, but it should ensure that the staff do not suffer damage as a result of the dense smoke in the indoor areas of the criminal services. The draft law we are discussing here today must ensure that there is an indoor smoking ban in the criminal services institutions. In all public institutions, in nursing homes and for those who receive home care, there are very clear rules for smoking, and therefore it is reasonable that the same rules apply in our prisons. One thing is the smoke among the inmates, but the proposal here is primarily aimed at the employees, whom we politically have a duty to ensure proper working conditions, including that they can work without constantly being exposed to passive smoking. I would like to thank the Minister for Justice for listening when a majority of Parliament's parties made the same proposal in the spring. It was in March that it was presented with among others. Social democracy as a sender. The proposal here also has great support from the prison workers' unions, which in March also had an article on the problem of mass smoking. It is basically for the health of employees that the proposal should be adopted here. Having said that, however, it is also excellent that the proposal sets out to provide smoking cessation courses for prisoners, and we in the Social Democratic Group believe that this will also be beneficial. In these words, we support the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117171016	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peter Kofod Poulsen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117171028	With the bill, we really make our prisons and detention houses smoke-free. This is based on the great desire of many criminal services staff, who often follow the pain of smoke in the cells. I do not have to hide the fact that in many ways I have had difficulty with the restrictions that have been adopted over the last few years when it comes to the possibility of enjoying tobacco around the various places, but it must also be said that when it comes to tobacco smoking, the legislation has been speeded up. However, these measures have now taken place, and it is a question of whether this should not also apply to our prisons and our detention houses. I think it should. I believe that we have an obligation to take action when the criminal services staff so wish and, at the same time, bearing in mind that developments in society are moving in one particular direction in this area. For us, it is absolutely essential that, when this is to be enforced, there are good solutions in cooperation with the prison staff and the detention houses, so it will make good sense for the staff we actually have in mind when we adopt it. I have also read the criticism directed at the proposal from some quarters, and I must admit that I therefore take the criticism with serenity. If you are sorry that you are not allowed to smoke, if you go to prison, then you have to remember that you are sitting there because you have committed something punishable, and that can give you reason to think about life. There are more opportunities to stop smoking, to smoke at the facilities that are provided, or to stop committing crime for the future, so that you can continue smoking outside the prisons. It's not that hard again. When schoolteachers around the country have to be outside the matrimony to smoke, when Mrs Jensen in the nursing home cannot be allowed to smoke a cerut in her own room, yes, people who are deep criminals must of course not be able to pulsate in the prison cells either. So I can announce that the Danish People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117171226	There is a brief comment from Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117171232	Thank you. I'm getting a little puzzled down here. I am a former health rapporteur, and we were negotiating this EU directive, which came earlier this year, which we had to implement in Denmark, and which DF was against, because it meant some tightening up in relation to our current smoking legislation. So where's the difference? Is it that makes the difference that we are talking about inmates when DF goes in and supports this proposal, because DF is against most other proposals that are about tightening smoking legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117171309	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117171311	Well, Mrs Maier may have a point, because the Danish People's Party has, when you look at it historically, had a very difficult time with the limitations that have been, for the possibility of being able to smoke tobacco so there is absolutely a point in that. But now it has to be said that developments have been going in one direction for many years, and it has been against the fact that it has been harder and harder to be allowed to smoke around, and when you take that development into account, there must of course be some fairness in things, and therefore, of course, it must also apply to prisons and detention houses. I really think we have a special obligation to protect our employees, and that is what we are doing with this proposal. But yes, Mrs Maier is right, we have had difficulty with the restrictions that have been here.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117171352	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117171354	Okay, but then I have a thoughtful example here. If it had been the other way around, if we had introduced a smoking ban in prisons first and this bill went on a smoking ban for schoolteachers, for example. or, not least for citizens receiving home help, would one have taken the same position in DF?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117171420	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117171422	Many thoughtful examples can be drawn up, but I am, in fact, dealing with the real world, and that is that there has been a strong development in this area, especially over the last 10-15 years, and we must live with it. I have to live with the fact that my party has been in a minority in Parliament when it has come to these things, and when we are in this situation here, I think it is quite reasonable that the restrictions that have then been adopted by a large majority in the Folketing will of course also apply to prisons and detention houses.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117171450	There is a brief comment from Mrs Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117171453	But it may well be that I do not know the rules well enough, because I think there are also exceptions for elderly homes, housing and so on. etc. They have been exempted, as far as I know, on an equal footing with the institutions of criminal justice. My question is this: when the Danish People's Party opens the door to imposing a total ban on smoking in the institutions of criminal justice, the Danish People's Party also intends to support a total ban on smoking, for example. nursing home?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117171524	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117171526	This is going in one direction, there's no doubt about that. Now it is going to apply to the Criminal Services, precisely because people sitting there cannot just move outside, that is. that they prefer to smoke in the cells. It puts pressure on the employees who experience discomfort in relation to it, and I think we should listen to that. After all, it is a large majority of our prison officers who are experiencing problems with this smoke, and that is why I think it is quite fair to act. But the problems that may be in nursing homes and sheltered homes are simply not enough for me to know, so Mrs Zenia Stampe will have to enlighten me.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117171601	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117171603	In fact, as far as I am aware, the rule is also that these institutions or old people's homes, nursing homes or accommodations are excluded, and for them it is true that many of the residents are only inside. This is particularly true of older people who are unable to go outside. They are also going inside, which is why I just want to ask about them and about their opportunities to smoke in the future, whether the Danish People's Party will support a possible ban on smoking in their elderly homes, in their homes at the nursing home, etc.?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117171642	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117171643	I am simply not in a position to inform Mrs Zenia Stampe about this. My health and elderly rapporteurs have to be asked about this. I am sure they know much more about the situation in our nursing homes and our elderly homes around. Mrs. Zenia Stampe must address that to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117171659	Thank you, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Preben Bang Henriksen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117171709	Today there is a general ban on smoking in workplaces unless there are exceptions to the Smoking Act. One of the exceptions was, in fact, one of the exceptions. prison cells and associated visiting rooms. That's what we're changing with this legislation. The derogation is lifted and prisons become indoor smoke-free. However, I would stress that there will continue to be the possibility of smoking outdoors, to the extent that you can get out. For good reasons, it is a little limited under those circumstances. Why are we making this legislation? Yeah, we do, for example, because seven out of ten prison officers are following their lead. We are doing this, as I have said, for the sake of the staff, the inmates and, above all, those who are in prison in terms of visits and work. There will be smoking cessation courses, at least that is what is indicated and what has been set aside for the debate, and I hope that you will take part in them to the extent that you have problems. What happens if you go to your cell anyway? Yeah, you get a disciplinary sentence. The penalty is, in the first case, a warning and, in the second case, a fine of DKK 50, in the third case a fine of DKK 75. and, in the fourth case, one of 100 kroner. It doesn't sound like much, but it has to be kept up to an hour's wage, which is right on the bottom of 10 kroner. This is the system we now have, with disciplinary penalties in prisons, and I can say that the general smoking ban that will apply here supports the Left by its very nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117171858	There is a brief comment from Mrs Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117171901	It's a question. There is, of course, an exception today for the care and elderly sector, which I mentioned earlier in my question to Mr Seligman. Peter Kofod Poulsen, and that is why I should like to ask whether it is also envisaged to introduce a ban on smoking in the other excluded institutions, i.e. for example. housing services, 24-hour care facilities and nursing homes.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117171934	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117171935	There are many who compare nursing homes with prisons, but it is now usually when the luxurious conditions need to be described more closely, but here it is in connection with smoking. In fact, I can best answer by quoting my colleague's answer fairly well and saying that our health rapporteurs must of course find out. We are here today to find out whether there should be a ban on smoking in prisons, and it is important here that seven out of ten staff members feel bothered by it. I myself have been in prison many times, however, I have also come out, as some may know and I can confirm that it sucks, and we cannot offer that either the inmates or the employees. That is why the Left supports this proposal. How we deal with nursing homes and nursing homes, and what the situation is in nursing homes, I am not going to comment on, but like my colleague Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen says that this must be addressed by our health rapporteurs in the context of a debate and closer examination of the situation in nursing homes.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117172037	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117172039	I have, of course, received an answer to my question, because apparently I cannot really get an answer. When I ask, it is because I really think we are going to touch something rather fundamental. For I certainly see prisons as a kind of temporary home for the inmates, and in this way they can be compared to other public institutions which serve as homes for citizens. That is why we have to pass the issue on to the Left Health rapporteur, because if it is the well-being of employees that is the motivation to make this proposal, then I assume that this also applies to the workers in the care sector. I mean, when sir... Preben Bang Henriksen says that it is because seven out of ten employees are harassed by passive smoking, I assume that it will also impress the Left if the same applies to workers in the care sector. But I will put the question to the person concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117172135	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117172137	It was one of the moments that the employees were bothered by it. So it is the case with prison cells that, thankfully, they are replaced a little faster than nursing homes do, so I suppose you can also argue more strongly that the next person to come should not be exposed to the tobacco smoke hanging in the prison cell. The same view does not now apply in nursing homes. But take the nursing home discussion with the health care officer that would be quite fine.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117172203	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Preben Bang Henriksen and welcome Mr. Rune Lund from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117172227	After all, this is about extending the smoking ban in the criminal services to include the inmates' own living quarters and visiting rooms. On the part of the Enhedslisten, we find such a total ban strategy problematic. We understand the concern for employees, but we also think that there are some other considerations that should be taken into account here, and we think that the problem should therefore be solved where it should be avoided that employees and others should also be exposed to passive smoking. We would recommend a more practical approach and thinking about practical solutions rather than adopting this bill. We understand the concern for the staff, and we also understand the concern for other prisoners, but this is a special situation for people in prison, people who are in prison, because the employees who come to the inmates not only go to the inmates' homes, you might say, but they come to their homes in the form of a prison cell. We know that when you are incarcerated, you are in a forced situation, you will experience a stressful everyday life, and you may have some problems with your luggage, and cigarettes may be a sweetening of your life, and we know that there is an over-representation of smokers among, for example, inmates. Instead of such a quadruple ban, you could have a more practical approach, and there are many things to grab. You could start by setting up more smoking booths. This is an approach that is known here from Christiansborg. I believe that we, who move around Christiansborg, do not have to move very far until we bump into a smoking booth. So that kind of booths and solutions for people who smoke, including the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, you can apparently find and spend money on when it comes to the Folketing, but when it comes to people who are in a forced situation, such as: In prison, there is obviously not the same will to think about these kinds of practical solutions; then it is the ban strategy that is gaining ground. I think that is worth noting. Apparently, there is one approach for the Folketing and another approach for the prisons, which I think is just worth noting. You could also give more outtime to the employees. You could give better opportunities to smoke outdoors. It could be with some atrium farms or in the form of balconies. Farm trips could be offered to a greater extent. More frequent ventilation or better extraction of the cells could be ensured. There are, in fact, other things that could be done instead of adopting such a ban on smoking. There are some questions which arise and which have also been raised in the consultation responses that have been received in relation to isolation prisoners. They may have some particular challenges if they are smokers and have that need. One might also think of making a division into smoke - free departments or smoke - free cells and then non smoke - free departments or smoke - free cells. And one might consider whether perhaps there should be more flexibility in relation to a smoking ban for closed and open institutions. Inmates in closed institutions are in many cases locked in a very large part of the day and will actually have very limited opportunities to smoke. Last but not least, more than today, you could be seeking out in relation to smoking cessation courses. In this respect, I have noted that the government considers that this bill will have the consequence that there will be some additional costs in relation to smoking rehab courses, and one can hope so. But, overall, we would like to see it done here with an approach that was about freedom rather than coercion. We think that the anti-crime strategy here is boring, it is a pity, and we think that practical solutions should be taken as a starting point and a practical approach instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117172658	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mrs Christina Egelund from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117172720	The Liberal Alliance cannot support the proposal we are debating here. Of course, one can sympathize with the fact that the prison officers and other prisoners would like to get away from smoke, but the way the proposal is screwed up, it is simply too far-reaching. Instead of a completely indoor smoking ban, one could, for example, do so. have made a ban on smoking in common areas or visiting rooms alone, where you bother each other with smoke. Normally, in this type of case, we in the Liberal Alliance will argue with the free choice of the individual, but we recognise, of course, that it has been greatly undermined in relation to imprisoned criminals. However, I think it is worth emphasising that there are other important reasons for risking with ease in introducing a total ban. We know that in prisons there can already be a hard working environment and many conflicts lurk under the surface. We are witnessing an unprecedented escalation of violence against staff outside working hours. Therefore, it seems strange to create more tension for such a relatively small result. I am simply afraid that smoking bans will lead to more conflicts and heated huts. Moreover, it would be resourceful to enforce in practice if it were possible to do so at all. I think there is good reason to question whether it is wise to deprive desperate people of their right to smoke in their own cells. The ban will, by its very nature, result in more control. Criminal services staff are already fighting a tough fight against hashish and other drugs, and they must now also use their energies to fight an otherwise legal drug. Unfortunately, there is good reason to fear that the level of conflict will rise as a result of total bans. Basically, it gives rise to doubts as to whether all the consequences of the bill have been carefully thought out. Have the consequences of an increased level of conflict in Danish prisons been seriously assessed? Unfortunately, I do not think that we can get far with rehab courses and nicotine patches. On this basis, the Liberal Alliance cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117172930	Thank you to Mrs Christina Egelund. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier from the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117172946	Thank you. I liked sir. Rune Lund's comparison between the Folketing and the prisons! There are not many other places where you are also forced into a Thursday night. But, as I said, this bill is about extending the smoking ban in the criminal services institutions, and I would like to start by stressing that in the alternative, we have enormous sympathy for the intention in this, namely to minimise the nuisances that may be experienced by employees in relation to smoking in prisons. That is why we are also interested in looking at measures that can actually help with the problem, but we disagree with the means that the government has chosen to use in this bill, which we are both for principle but also for practical reasons. A total ban, therefore, is, in our opinion, too far-reaching an infringement of the right to privacy, which is not adequately compensated for by other considerations. Among the consultation responses, among others, highlight: Dignity is also the fact that a person's home is the physical area in which privacy is developed, and it has to be said that it is for the prisoners in prisons, at least for a temporary period. The Association for Legal Affairs emphasizes the same in their response to the hearing, expressing concern that the cell should be regarded as the inmate's home and that the cell should be regarded primarily as a place of work for the employees. Nor should we forget the principle of normalisation of criminal services, which, according to the criminal justice system's own programme of principles, is an important and fundamental principle, and the principle of normalisation is of the opinion that we should try to set up prison conditions in such a way that they are as far as possible different from the day-to-day life outside prison. And it's not just the D.A. saying that. It is also a principle that we find in UN standards for minimum rules on the treatment of prisoners. This rule states that the prison should endeavour to minimise any difference between prison life and free life, which is in danger of challenging respect for the human dignity of the inmates. It has to be said that this bill is against. So we see that the bill violates both the right to privacy and this principle of normalisation, and we should remember that the prisoners are already serving a sentence and have been deprived of their freedom. Do they really have to be double-punished because they smoke? We don't think they should. Some may then point out that the inmates could just go on a farm trip a little more often, but we do not believe that in prisons resources will be prioritised in this way, and a number of restrictions have also been seen over the recent period, when prison staff spend an enormous amount of time, among other things. search cells for cell phones. So we fear that this bill will just mean even more time spent on the wrong things, you might say; on control rather than building sensible relationships between inmates and employees. The lemon is, so to speak, already under pressure, so this could potentially lead to more conflicts in prisons. On the basis of these considerations, the alternative cannot support this bill. We believe, as several rapporteurs have also mentioned, that we should exhaust the other options available before considering such drastic steps as this. That is why we would like to look at alternative options. Smoking booths have already been mentioned, and we could mention extraction and that prisons could be divided into smoke-free departments and smoking departments, where extraction could be made in the smoking wards, and thus there could be more proposals. There is also a proposal in the consultation answers which points to the use of breathing masks for staff. At any rate, there are a number of options that have not been tested at all, and we would think that would be the right thing to do first, before making such substantial changes as this draft law proposes. That is why we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117173338	There is a brief comment from Mrs Trine Bramssen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117173342	That is two questions. First of all, seven out of ten prison workers feel bothered by the heavy smoke. What does the alternative think about that? Secondly, the former legal rapporteur of the Alternative, Mrs Josephine Fock, expressed support for this proposal in the spring. What has made the alternative change of attitude?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117173407	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117173408	It is not because the alternative has changed the rapporteur - no. I'll get back to that. To the first question: yes, it makes an impression that seven out of ten feel bothered. What also lies in that study is that in fact half of them are by these health and safety representatives, because they are the ones who have been asked to say that they would prefer to see a solution which is not a ban but, for example, a ban. may be something different from something with some extraction or something else. And it also makes the impression that half points to a solution which is not, in fact, a ban because you are worried about what a ban can cause to conflict. And there you can at least do that, I am surprised that the government has chosen to listen to the half of the people who believe that there should be a ban. So that's the answer to it. Of course it makes an impression, but we must remember to have the nuances with regard to how we solve the challenge of feeling annoyed. I don't think it's the only place you feel bothered with smoke either. Now we have talked about nursing homes in the past, and I think the answer would be the same if we asked there. So that's one answer. On the second question: yes, our current financial rapporteur and former legal rapporteur have previously stated that she supported this proposal, and in fact, this bill has derived much discussion from the Group Room of the Alternative. Like most parliamentary groups, I think we are not all in agreement, and that is why it is a balance between where the majority is, and it is so with us that we are against the bill. So that is simply the best answer to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117173540	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117173541	I would like to quote the alternative from 26 March, that is to say not so many months ago, when it was said: 'We believe the inmates can smoke on their farm trip, but must respect that they do not have to smoke on account of the workers' working environment. ▪ Why is the health and safety of the employees not given a higher weight here a few months after it was the alternative's position?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117173603	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117173604	It was the opinion of the Legal Affairs Committee of the Alternative. Now we have had the opportunity to discuss it widely in the group in connection with this bill, and we have also had the opportunity to discuss it in the light of both the consultation answers that have come and what else has given rise to discussion. There it is just the group's attitude that we are opposed. That is not to say that there can be no personal opinions at stake, and that must be respected. We clearly believe that the workers' working environment matters, but if we make a bowl here, we have to say that then the freedom of the inmates just weighs more heavily for us in this situation, and that is why we are against the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117173644	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117173648	I just heard the summing up, and I couldn't keep up with it at all. But it was something about the fact that instead prisons should be divided into smokers and non-smokers, and there was something about smoking booths, and I think I heard that there should be breathing masks available. I just have to ask: in relation to the service that the alternative would like to give to the inmates in this way, can those outside the prison expect the same attitude from the alternative? I am thinking here of other public jobs, wherever the ban on smoking otherwise applies. Is it the case that the rest of us are also given the same opportunities, or is it just the inmates?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117173729	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117173730	Well, I may not quite understand the question. But in this situation, we have a challenge that says that there are people who have been deprived of their freedom, and can one compare with the Folketing where we can go out on a balcony or on the street to smoke a cigarette? No, I guess you can't. And when you are dealing with people who have been deprived of their freedom and who, as such, cannot be allowed to decide for themselves when they want to smoke a cigarette, then we believe that if there is a problem as it is then documented in this study that there is a problem then we must also provide the resources that it requires to help solve it. Then you can choose to say: we will solve this by means of a ban. We think this is a really, really bad solution because, as I said, we believe it creates more conflict and, in this way, it is a wrong way of using the resources of the prison officials. Does that cost you anything? Should we then invest in smoking booths and exhaust systems? Yeah, maybe we should.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117173827	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117173829	It may be that I have to express myself more clearly. But in relation to the attitude that things should be sectioned and people should have these opportunities, and that the rapporteur now says that in the Folketing we can just go outside and smoke, I would say: yes, but now, for example, there are people at a regular workplace who cannot just go outside and smoke there is a smoking ban; that is what the law says. And then I just have to ask the alternative: is it the case that the inmates should be better off than those who are at work?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117173858	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117173859	I went to the prison room a few months ago or when. And I do not think it is wrong for me to say that there is certainly no inmate who is better off than a Danish worker at any Danish workplace. These are people who, for some, get twice 1⁄2 hours every day to go for a walk, and the rest of the time they have to spend in their cells. And yes, they have committed something criminal, and yes, they have been given an appropriate punishment for it, hopefully, but then I see no reason why we should punish them further by also taking away the freedom from those who say they can be allowed to smoke their cigarettes.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117173935	There are no more brief comments, so thank you to Mrs Magdalene Maier. The next rapporteur is Mrs Zenia Stampe from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117173944	Thank you. The aim of the bill is to introduce a complete smoking ban indoors for the criminal services institutions. The proposal is justified by the workers' working environment, i.e. the risk of the harmful effects of passive smoking on health. We fully recognise the concern about the working environment and health of employees in criminal services. This is a concern which is parallel to the concern we also have for the employees of the country's nursing homes, elderly homes, 24-hour institutions, settlements, etc. However, despite the concern I also share from the other rapporteurs, there has been broad political agreement that smoking could not be introduced into citizens' own homes, and we believe that prisons, detention houses, pensions and exit centres, which are also part of the institutions of criminal justice, should be regarded as the temporary homes of prisoners, and that the same rules should therefore apply here as apply to the other public institutions which function as citizens' homes. The other institutions here already have the possibility of imposing a general ban on smoking in visiting rooms and banning smoking in residential rooms when there are employees. This can be done in the institutions of criminal justice, but there is no need for a change of law in order to do so. Having said that, however, we are not completely opposed to changes, because we also share the concern that I think everyone up here has shared for the employees' working environment, and that is why we have seen the same approach that both the Enhedslisten and the Alternative and the Liberal Alliance have been up to represent, namely a more operational, more practical approach. We will, for example: It is a good thing to agree to restrictions in the living rooms if, for example, one is able to accept restrictions in the living rooms. ensures access to smoking booths or that you can go outdoors. We have heard that is not possible in the old prisons, but perhaps to a greater extent will be possible in the new prisons. We will also be able to support a ban if, as several consultation parties have suggested, there is a differentiation between open and closed prisons, but we cannot support the ban as it stands in the specific proposal. And when we cannot do so, it is partly for the reasons of principle that I have mentioned, but it is also for some practical reasons, which others have also mentioned, namely the risk that it may lead to an escalation of conflict and that it will not be a good thing for the workers' working environment either. That is why we cannot support the proposal in its present form.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117174229	Thank you to Mrs Zenia Stampe. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen of the SF Socialist People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117174244	Thank you, President. First, a slightly overarching comment. My personal point of departure is that everything we do not harm others should, as a starting point, be legal, and I think that this anti-smoking hysteria has reached completely insane heights in many parts of society. It is perfectly reasonable that we have a smoking legislation in which we protect other people from harmful smoke, but we have also developed such a society where we almost have a state and other people who will tell people how to behave. And that is where I have a liberal touch, where I think it goes too far. Then the dilemma with this bill is that on the one hand you have some people who do not have a choice, they cannot move, they cannot go anywhere else, they are forced to be there for good reasons, you have to assume, they do not have a free choice to do anything else or go somewhere else. On the other hand, you have some employees, where seven out of ten feel bothered by the smoke, and there are also some inmates who feel bothered by the smoke. I would also like to say that an extended smoking ban for inmates in closed prisons may seem particularly hard, since, as several have pointed out, there are no good opportunities to go outside and smoke, and several organisations are also proposing that the extension of the smoking ban should only apply to open prisons and pensions. But, as I said, we also have this balance in relation to the employees. I would like to make a few comments on some of the answers to the hearings. The prison association is of course positive, but points out that criminal services will focus on the fact that inmates can be offered strolls on an extended scale, because, as the alternative rapporteur said, that possibility is quite limited in many cases today. Then there is the whole question that it may seem enormously conflicting when people are already under pressure and for good reasons have had their freedom reduced quite significantly. If you look at who has sent a hearing answer in this area, you will see that it is both the Reverends' Association, the Judicial Association, the National Association of Defence Attorneys, DIGNITY etc. Finally, the Landsklubben of social workers employed in the Criminal Services also says that this should only apply to open prisons and pensions and that we should therefore make a change to this bill. I would like to sum up: from the SF's point of view, there are two opposing considerations that need to be taken into account in relation to this. On the one hand, it is the health of the inmates and the health of the employees both in relation to the restriction on the inmates who smoke and in relation to the fact that it may be conflict stairs, and that is why I believe that it must simply be possible for us to find an intermediate solution. After all, the minister has his majority in place, you can figure that out, but with some modifications I actually think most of the parliamentary parties could support it here if we found a model in which we could both make sure that employees are not exposed to smoke and that there are some choices in relation to the inmates who want it. So until I have been made clear whether it is completely impossible to change the bill, we in the SF are not ready to say anything about it. We tend to support it, but we therefore want us to try to put on the slightly pragmatic glasses to see if we cannot relax it a little while while still protecting the health and working environment of employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117174715	There is a brief comment from Mrs Trine Bramssen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117174719	Just a brief question: A total ban on smoking in prisons already exists in Sweden, Australia and New Zealand, and that is where it works. Why does the rapporteur not think that similar conditions can be found in Denmark as in Sweden?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117174739	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117174740	But you can easily do that. I'm just saying, based on my values and attitudes, and also SF's, we've also discussed it in the group, we think it's a balance between different considerations. It is not because we think this proposal is completely weary and on the moon. There are, after all, some real issues that are at the root of this. But inmates have taken their freedom from them because they need to be punished, and that is part of the punishment. But there are all sorts of other areas in which we try and also a large part of the criminal service's work to ensure that there is relative idyllicity in prisons and institutions; ensure that the cooperation is good; ensure that the inmates get an education, acquire some competences, etc. So that is the focus, and when even those who work in prisons and institutions say that the best way will therefore be a solution where inmates still have the opportunity to smoke, but without necessarily harming others to the extent that they do today, I think it makes an impression.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117174858	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117174859	The proposal here comes originally from the Prisons Association and on the basis of a study which shows that seven out of ten prison workers feel bothered by smoke. The prison union also supports the proposal here. Does the rapporteur not think that we should take it very seriously when there is such a request from a trade union representing such a large group of people working in prisons and expressing that they do not think it is good as it is today and actually want a ban?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117174931	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117174932	Yes, and that's why it was the very first hearing answer I read in my speech. It was from the Prisons Association where I pointed out that they are positive about the proposal that seven out of ten feel bothered, but also that five out of ten half want a more moderate solution to be found, and I quoted: The Prisons Association has also pointed out that criminal services should focus on whether inmates can be offered strolls on an extended scale. So I think I take it seriously when, I think, quite loyally sketches out what they think is the problem, but also what they think can be another solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117175008	Thank you to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. There are no more brief comments and we shall move on to the next rapporteur. No, we do not, because the Conservative People's Party is not present. Then we'll go over to the Attorney General's office. We'll be glad to see him up here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117175028	I'm really glad to hear that, sir. Christian Juhl says. This actually shows that all the rumors of the imminent death of the government are extremely exaggerated. Whatever the case, however, I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs for the most positive speeches we have heard today. I am pleased that there is broad support for implementing the government's policy to strengthen the health conditions of the country's prison officers and remove the genes from passive smoking experienced by both prison officers and inmates. With the bill, the government will introduce a completely indoor smoking ban in the Departmental Services. Today the smoking ban does not apply to the inmate's cells and visiting rooms. It exposes prison staff to passive smoking, which is a health challenge. In addition, a user survey by the Prison Association has shown that seven out of ten of the country's prison officers are plagued by passive smoking. The same is true of many inmates. I therefore believe it is important to reduce the nuisances and harmful health effects of passive smoking, both by the employees and by the inmates, by introducing a complete ban on smoking. With those comments, I should like to thank you again for the debate. I look forward to answering questions during the next reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117175146	And we thank the Minister because there are no brief comments. No one else has asked for the floor either. So the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117175207	The debate is open and the first rapporteur is Mrs Trine Bramsen from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117175236	Thank you. The purpose of this bill is, among other things, to: to clarify the scope of PET's obligations to delete legally obtained information while at the same time balancing the fact that PET does not process more information than necessary, as well as the fact that PET's operational resources are used for their core tasks, precisely to prevent and combat terrorism. The proposal also proposes to transfer PET's tasks relating to the most serious organized crime to the National Investigation Centre of the National Police. The last thing here is about the organization, and that's where we support the bill. We think it sounds very reasonable, and we also expect this to come on the basis of the attitude of the police themselves. The second part of the proposal corrects the criticism made by the supervisory authorities that data are not deleted in good time. The proposal ensures that the information which must continue to be used, which is relevant and which has been legally provided, can last without requiring a huge amount of administrative work. That is basically what was at the root of the P.T.A.'s criticism that came here in the spring. We think it makes sense to save an incredible amount of administrative resources with this small change of law, given that it is information that needs to be used fairly and legally. That is why I must inform you that we support the bill here.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117175415	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rune Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117175418	This bill is interesting, because it is based on the fact that the supervision has long criticised PET for not complying with the law and not continually deleting information that is no longer relevant to PET's work, i.e. that PET does not delete data, even if they are part of other documents in which other information is still relevant. So it's just that PET didn't do what PET was supposed to do. And it is a problem if you are registered in PET's archives in a legal society where you have the right to privacy and there is no reason to do so. And it becomes even more problematic when the reward for PET becomes that you make a change of law that makes the practice that PET has practiced and that has not been in accordance with the law, what should be the practice in the legislation forward-looking. Is it not a problem that PET can simply break the law and then be rewarded with the fact that what they have always done, which has been illegal and which is illegal while we are standing here today, can only be what PET can do in the future, to the detriment of legal certainty?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117175530	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117175532	This is primarily about what PET should primarily spend their resources on. Do they constantly have to sit and review information to find out what has expired and what can still be used? Or do they need to spend their resources on intelligence work and on combating terrorism, which is what PET is set up in the world for? What we need to bear in mind is that we are talking about information that has been obtained in full legal form, and we can, for example, do so. imagine a document in which some information is still relevant, while a number of information is no longer relevant. So that's what we're saying... that you have to keep going... that's how it is today... that you're going to go through these documents... and you're going to cross out what you don't need anymore. And with the amount of data that comes in particular with the many reports we have from people, some of which may still be relevant, while others may be out of date, we think it makes sense to make this change of law.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117175626	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117175627	For me, it's about PET being able to do its job. However, it is also a question of ensuring as citizens that information about us is not stored without its relevance to PET's work. After all, the whole focus of this bill is resource consumption, and we have to note that PET has been given a great deal of resources in recent years. The bill states that PET's IT platform only supports deletion of information at case level and document level, but not at information level. But there are IT programs that can do that. You can delete information, that is information at the level of information. So I think it is a little simplistic that the rapporteur makes this a question of what PET should use its resources for, when it comes to the legal certainty of its citizens, and there are technological solutions that could address the problem here.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117175728	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117175729	As I said, this bill is about you at the moment. is unable to enter and delete documents, but can only delete at case and document level. And there we just think that the logical thing is to say that as long as you do not have an IT system to support it, we must ensure that PET has the information legally available that is necessary, for example, to combat terrorism.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117175754	There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117175801	I just have to get it right. The trouble, that is, that it takes some time and takes some man-hours to erase some information, weighs more heavily on social democracy than on the legal certainty of innocent people. The legal certainty that lies in their right not to be registered in registers when they have no relevance to PET's work, when they have done nothing at all, must give way because it is difficult to delete this information.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117175837	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117175838	No, we must just bear in mind that this is information which has been relevant to PET's work and which has been obtained legally. So this is not the case with random information, which has almost failed. What we are concerned with is that PET is using their resources to fight terrorism. We have a massive terrorist threat against Denmark right now, and we have here from the Danish Parliament entrusted PET with a huge task of collecting more and more information. Therefore, we also believe that it makes good sense to ensure that PET can legally work in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117175915	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117175917	Of course, there is work that is important for PET to be done and that is important for us as a society and as Parliament is doing. But precisely when we give such extended powers, and when monitoring is extended to a degree, how many more people get involved in it, there is an additional reason to make sure that innocent people who have never done anything, some who have never had evil in sight, do not come along. And I hope that Mrs Trine Bramsen does not say that those people do not exist in the registers, because of course they do. Well, there's plenty of people in the documents, even though they've never done anything. Isn't there an extra obligation for us to guarantee the legal certainty of these people? And where is the justification for supervision if their main task is ignored?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117180003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117180005	After all, there is no question of information coming in without being relevant. After all, it is information that is relevant but that expires, which means that you cannot use other information in the same documents. We just have to stick to the fact that that is what this is all about. This is not information which has not been legally obtained or which has not had any relevance for, for example, the case in question.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117180030	There is a brief comment from Mrs Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117180033	So I think we understand this bill completely differently, or it is as if Mrs Trine Bramsen only talks about part of the proposal. For it says here in the submission, which gives the quick overview, that with the proposal PET is not obliged to review documents of the service on an ongoing basis of its own motion. As I understand the rapporteur, she believes that it is only a matter of individual information that one should go in and delete a name in a document. There is also a part of the proposal that concerns this, but the first part, which is described in the submission, is actually about whole documents and whole cases that no longer meet the processing criteria for registration. Is the rapporteur aware of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117180120	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117180120-2	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117180122	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117180124	Then I just cannot understand why the rapporteur keeps talking as if it is a document where certain information is to be removed. It is also part of the proposal, but another part of the proposal is that PET is not obliged to remove documents that no longer meet the criteria. Does the rapporteur and the Social Democrats argue that PET does not need to remove documents that no longer meet the criteria for registration?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117180157	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117180158	As I said, the Social Democratic Party supports the proposal here. Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117180204	Then we thank Mrs Bramsen, there are no more brief remarks. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117180223	The proposal here can be divided into three different parts. The first part deals with the transfer of tasks relating to the most serious organized crime from the PET to the National Police and proposes that the task be placed in the National Investigation Centre in the future. In fact, the proposal makes quite good sense, bearing in mind that the tasks of the intelligence service are usually in a different field, where it has to be said that precisely in these years there is extra pressure in relation to combating the threats that are against Denmark and the Danes. After all, the tasks of combating the most serious organized crime are already being largely solved in the Task Force East and Task Force West, in cooperation with the circles and the National Investigation Centre, so that no revolution has been set up from our point of view in terms of how to do things. So we can support this part. The second part of the bill concerns amendments to the PET Act concerning the deletion of PET's data. In the 2005 annual report, criticism has been levelled at the way PET processes data in connection with deletion. The proposal here provides for PET to delete documents where the rules would require them if they were to be encountered, but at the same time, the intelligence service should not be forced to go through all the files of its own motion in order to find cases and documents where the time limit for deletion may have been exceeded. The measure must be considered resource-saving for PET, and it is, in fact, a good thing, because it is better for PET to be preoccupied with detecting or preventing possible terrorist acts than for a lot of resources to be spent on browsing documents and archives through because of the deadline for deletion. So we can support that too. As the third part of the proposal, it is proposed to amend the PET law so that in future it will be the supervision of the intelligence services, and not the Ministry of Justice, which decides on the security clearance of secretariat staff, and we think that makes quite good sense as well. So we can also support that element. So, yes to all three parts.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117180435	There is a brief comment from Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117180439	Thank you. Once again, I am going to involve my former health rapporteur with the rapporteur, because I just remembered that in the health field, we have also been in negotiations in the past and had many discussions on data security and the registration of personal data in relation to health data and such things. There has been very, very tight the DF's health rapporteur in relation to where to register, where to register, and that you should not be registered in some places, unless you have granted permission to do so yourself, etc. Then I just think about what we are discussing in the Chamber today: now the rapporteur himself mentioned that it is estimated that this will be resource-saving, and among other things. Therefore, DF supports the proposal. But does it weigh more, more heavily, that this is economically resource-saving than it does that there is legal certainty for the individual citizen who is potentially registered with PET, even though it is indeed information that does not have to be there or is not applicable or not relevant, can one say, for an investigation? Is it heavier to say you can save some money on this maneuver?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117180545	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117180546	I think we are solving a practical problem with this proposal, because there is a practical problem. That is also what has been criticized. And this is the way we can do it, so it makes sense in terms of resource consumption, which I think is the important thing. I mean, it's important that we have an intelligence service that spends time and resources tracking down potential terrorists or terrorist attacks rather than publishing archives. Now I am not quite sure that I understood questions, but I think I can confirm the scenario that Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier put up.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117180619	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117180621	Is it equally important for the Danish People's Party that citizens' legal certainty is ensured in relation to how they are registered in PET's data, in relation to how they might be registered in some health records?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117180638	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117180640	Exactly with police intelligence, it has to be said that there is a need for special tools, because it is about the security and security of all of us. There we are willing to go far in the Danish People's Party. But I do not think there is anything actually gone wrong with what we are dealing with here. We solve a problem that is, and that is what matters to us. There has been criticism. Now we solve that problem with the bill, and we are pleased with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117180708	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117180712	Well, I think this bill is a scandal. The fact that there is an illegal practice which is being criticized by the only thing we have to democratically control the intelligence services, namely the supervision, which said last spring that there are individual individuals, companies and organisations, even members of parliament who are illegally entered in these PET registers. A disgusting criticism. A little was pulled on the shoulder, and what is the Minister's response to an illegal practice? That's to say, we'll just legalize it. My question to the rapporteur is this: the rapporteur says that he cares about the safety and security of ordinary people, but is it not security and security for us that we do not live in a police state that you are not in all kinds of registers when you are innocent, never did anything, but happen to have ended up in a document where the intelligence service has looked for something else? There are plenty of examples of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117180823	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117180824	Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen is right in her introduction to the question, namely that criticism has been raised. And it is quite easy to agree with that point of view, because there has been criticism. Then the question is how to deal practically with that problem. And there I think the Minister and the government have found a sensible solution to the problem that has been, but I very much miss it, and I expect the rapporteurs who are opposed to the proposal to go to the platform and tell us what is going to happen if you cannot support this proposal. Well, what do you want? Will you move resources to look at erasing deadlines instead of fighting terrorism? Well, this is kind of a very, very cash priority.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117180908	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117180909	I would very much like to tell the DF's rapporteur what we want. We want the law to be observed, the personal data law to be observed. We have a duty to ensure that the supervision, which is the only supervision we have, with PET's work and PET's work, is really important, they have been given many more powers, many more means to ensure and keep an eye on the fact that ordinary innocent people are not in these registers, if that is not relevant to PET's work, are not completely made a fool of. Because that's what's happening here. The supervision has come up with a criticism, but it is not being corrected. The minister legalises an illegal practice, and then the supervision stands there and says: Well, then what is our role? I can understand that. I mean, supervision's gonna stay pretty close to nothing. I simply think it is a democratic scandal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117181001	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117181002	I find it hard to see solutions other than those in this bill. What else would you want? In other words, would one have to systematically go through archives to look at erase deadlines? I find that very difficult to imagine. In other words, it is always easy to make criticism, and I think that is fair enough, but we must also point out what else should be done. I think that what has been put forward here is the only reasonable thing in the situation we find ourselves in and, of course, we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117181028	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117181033	I think many of us would like to be able to say that crime does not pay off. But we can see that it is worth breaking the law on PET in this case, where for years we have not lived up to the law, where we have not deleted data on people who should have been deleted a long time ago. And what is the reward? A majority of the Folketing intends to change the legislation so that the illegal practice of PET can just continue. Then the rapporteur says: well, it is about resources. So I would like to ask the rapporteur: does the rapporteur know how much resources would be needed if we were today to comply with the legislation as it actually is and which provides legal certainty for people whose data are currently in PET's archives?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117181123	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117181124	The short answer is: No, I don't. But I could imagine that it is quite resource-intensive if I look at what it would take to go through those archives. But Mr. Rune Lund can ask the Minister, and then maybe the Minister can clarify it. I gotta say, I'm gonna take this with a spruce of salt. I think that what is being put forward is quite reasonable, very reasonable. Yes, criticism has been raised. This is now being dealt with, which means that we can save some resources.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117181151	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117181152	However, if you want to legalise what is currently a violation of law if you want to undermine fundamental rights for citizens of a community governed by the law, in that information that is irrelevant to PET's work should still appear in PET's archives, because there are no resources to delete them, then at least you should have been aware of what it would cost to actually comply with the legislation as it is today.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117181236	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117181240	I didn't really sense any question, sir. Rune Lund can ask the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117181244	Thank you. Then we also thank Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, because there are no more brief remarks. And we welcome Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117181257	Thank you. The proposal before us today has a number of things to do with the transfer of PET's tasks in the field of serious organised crime. It is no longer to be dealt with by the police intelligence service, but by, if I may say so, the ordinary police. Of course, we take note of this and support it, and I have the impression that others do. Nor does it sound like that is what is debating in this Chamber. On the other hand, it does the next thing, namely the relationship with personal data and so on. The starting point is that PET's activities are covered by the Personal Data Act. Documents should not be kept for longer than is necessary. They must be deleted if they are not relevant to the case. In this area, the supervision of the intelligence services has a certain perception. The supervision of the intelligence services takes the view that PET should be kept under constant review every year or half-yearly, or when it should be.I cannot see at what intervals it should keep an eye on whether people should be deleted or not. Police Intelligence has a different view, and what do you do? Then you look up section 13 of the law and then you can see that this situation is directly described in it: the intelligence service must address the Minister of Justice when there is such a divergence about the understanding of the law. That's exactly what they've been doing. And what has the Minister of Justice done? He's put the case in the Folketing. It is also a great crime for the Minister of Justice to do so. No, it's not. In fact, I think that this is probably the most democratic way we can resolve this. So I must now arrest no less than four speakers on the subject of a violation of the law by PET. No, it's not a violation of law. It is a question of the supervision of intelligence services having one view of how the law should be understood. It is the view that these deletion times should be kept under constant review. And the police intelligence service has a different view, namely that it should be done when a case is brought forward. Then you have to see whether the person is still gone, if I may say so, topical or has an impact on the tasks of the service as it says. Alternatively, they must of course be deleted when the ultimate erasing deadlines are met, in most cases after 15 years. This is the dispute over the understanding of the law that the Folketing has to decide today. The Minister for Justice has come up with his proposal on how to understand the law, but I must stress once again that there is no question that we have 800 lawbreakers sitting out in Søborg. It is not a matter of PET breaking the law. It is a question of different interpretations of how the law should be interpreted. But then I can say that there is help, because the Minister for Justice has come up with his bill to clear up this dispute. The Minister says that if you do not have any actual information that is no longer relevant to the tasks of the service, as it says, they must be deleted. It's in the bill. In addition, they must of course be deleted after the 15 years, or when, moreover, there is now normal erasing time. So can one ask whether this does not mean that there will be some people now I am already taking one of the questions that will be registered and that should actually be deleted? Yeah, we might as well be honest with you. It does. They're gonna be wiped out when the service finds the case, or lately after these 15 years. We might as well be honest and say that it is a matter of balancing resources. Because if we follow the proposal which the opposition is apparently in favour of, then that means that every year or every six months, or when it is, in other words continuously, PET will have to roll all the cases up and find out whether there is still any basis for having information about the person concerned, whether the person in question, as it stands, is likely to have an impact on the duties of the service. I just have to say that if PET is to do so, I can guarantee that it will be work beyond borders and boundaries. I have no idea, for good reason, how many people have been registered with PET and how much information they have, but if you had to go through this exercise at the intervals I mentioned before and which you obviously want, then I have to say that it is not enough to look at whether we have passed some limitation period. No, you have to go and get the people who can clarify whether the person in question is still relevant to the matter. That is to say, in each case, you have to go out and get the people who have given information to PET and see if there is still meat on it and, at the very least, you have to look into what might be of current evidence. It will be a huge piece of work which will mean that, to put it bluntly, PET will not have time at all for what PET is actually in the world for, namely to prevent us from having terrorist attacks in Denmark. So, yes, it's a balance, but the last one counts mostly in the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117181818	There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117181821	I would like to put a question to Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, who is both a lawyer and a human being, which I normally regard as one who is very concerned about legal certainty. Let us, for example: There are plenty of both private companies and public companies and organisations who are also spending a lot of time complying with the Personal Data Act to ensure that random people's personal data are not flowing around. In other words, legal certainty requires something, yes, and if you have worked up a huge hump, it is of course a greater job, but if it is our job, is it the task of the rapporteur, is it the responsibility of the Minister to start rebuking supervision, in relation to the fact that supervision itself has obviously misunderstood their task? And if this is just a misunderstanding, why does it require a change of law?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117181926	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117181927	Oh, I don't think either the Minister or I could dream of reprimanding the supervision that is doing quite an excellent job. There are plenty of lawyers in the department, most of them lawyers, and there are lawyers in PET, and each has their own perception of when PET is required to delete people's information. And then it is quite fine for the Minister to ask Parliament to decide what is up and down in this matter, and that is exactly what he is doing with the proposal in question. So no, we are certainly not rebuking supervision.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117182005	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117182006	If the problem here is that it takes a great deal of resources for PET to comply with the law and delete the information according to the letter and spirit of the law, could it not be imagined that instead of contacting the Parliamentary Legal Rapporteurs and saying that it takes a great deal of resources and that it has actually been examined, rather than just throwing out that it requires a great deal of resources? The Minister could therefore say that we know that it costs it and it costs it in years' work, or that we know that an IT system that will solve it here costs 30 million. kr. to prepare whatver. He could then say: I would like to have the parties of the Folketing on that, because then PET will be able to observe the spirit and letter of the law more cheaply than it is today, and we do not need to change the law and make it worse. Then I am quite sure that most of the Danish Parliament's parties would say: Okay, PET has already got a lot more resources, but they also have some new tasks; we would like to help find the extra money so that in a smart way you can secure people's sensitive information • people who haven't done anything criminal, have no evil in mind, aren't relevant to PET's work.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117182122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117182123	Yes, it was also an opportunity to sacrifice the billions it is likely to cost to have a very careful investigation into how many registrations PET has that are current. If so, we should also know whether they should check all these thousands of data whether they should be checked every month or every six months or every whole year. It doesn't say anything about anywhere. And I'm sure you could get consultants to calculate that. But I will come back to what I said in my speech, so it's not just looking it up or letting a computer see if this registration has now been 61⁄2 years old and then gone with it. It is, of course, a question of seeing whether it is still topical, of talking to the people who have helped to draw PET's attention to it. It is a job that I do not think you can put a sum of money on the table in that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117182223	This is an exciting debate, but I would like to appeal to us to help keep time. Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117182231	The legislation is quite clear here, and the supervision states very clearly that PET must continually delete data and that PET must also delete data at document level. And when PET does not do so, it really does reflect that the supervision we have with PET is far too weak, partly because the supervision today only works with personal records and not with, for example, personal records. PET's decisions regarding interceptions or their operational decisions. Does it not concern a rapporteur for a party that calls itself the Liberal Party of Denmark that supervision has in fact made a consultation response to this bill, where supervision states that the bill involves a significant reduction in the tasks that supervision has hitherto considered to be its most important? So not only that PET can simply ignore the fact that it is a violation of law, and this will then be legalised in the future if it is adopted here, but supervision will also be even more lost than it is already.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117182345	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117182346	The questioner starts by saying that the legislation is ready and ends by using the term 'infringement'. I have to say that we are standing here today because the legislation is not clear because supervision has a position and PET has a different attitude and the Minister for Justice will try to clarify this. It is simply not true that there should be lawbreaking. As to whether supervision is too weak, I now have no reason to believe it when I look at the composition of it. The second part was the question of the monitoring response. To that I would say that it is likely that supervision will restructure its tasks, there is no doubt about that at all. But it isn't the case that the supervision gets out of work. We still need the supervision's work. If you look in the law, you can see that there are a lot of things that you can see in section 18 of the law that the supervisory board has to decide in advance. These are, for example, the deadlines for deletion, the provision of information, the transmission of information, etc. etc. So I am quite sure that supervision will not become unemployed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117182452	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117182459	Does the rapporteur not have the impression that supervision writes in its response to the consultation that the draft law significantly reduces the tasks that the supervision has hitherto considered to be its most important? And do not make any further impression when we have supervision today that is too weak and that only works with personal records, although supervision should deal with many other aspects of PET's business, for example. eavesdropping or operational decisions?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117182528	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117182531	I mean, supervision should only concern itself with personal records. Then it may well be that the questioner thinks they should supervise everything else that PET does, but they do not. Well, there's one of them. a control committee here in the Folketing, which also has to supervise some of PET's activities. So I clearly recognise that it is then possible that different priorities will be given, but a number of tasks still remain to be carried out by supervision. As I said before, it is a question of erasing deadlines, of the way in which PET provides information, of the disclosure of information by PET, of whether PET complies with the prohibition on processing data on the basis of legal political activity. For example, it is also a question of the situations in which a citizen approaches the supervision and asks if he or she himself is registered. There will also be plenty of supervision to deal with in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117182624	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117182631	I hope not, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen has a special insight into the intelligence service's work, because then I get a little worried. The picture that it would cost billions to go through these many documents and cases, and that you don't quite know if they're relevant still gone, etc. etc. But the question I have is going to be so much in principle, because that is what it comes down to, I think: if a document is created about a person in a case, and it turns out after a short time, half a year or a whole year, that the case is closed down or that person has no relevance to that case, Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen saw really, also with the background he has, as a lawyer and as interested in legal certainty, that it is reassuring and a rule of law worthy that the document remains with PET until the day PET happens to fall over it or to it has been there for 15 years? Is this a satisfactory legal situation for the citizens of the country?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117182752	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117182754	In the ideal world, the questioner is quite right: it is not satisfactory to say that if you do not stand there if you do not meet the criteria. That is absolutely right. However, I think I have explained well and well that this is a balance of consideration in this matter, and I must also say that if it is the case that the citizen feels that one is registered it may well be that one might experience, if one seeks certain posts, that there is some obstacle, yes, then I think there is reason to stress that Article 13 of the law states that any person may request the supervision to investigate whether the service wrongly processes information about the person concerned. So there is such an insight system. This is among other things. some of the things that supervision must continue to deal with. So the citizen in question is certainly not lawless.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117182840	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117182842	So, in principle, it is quite all right for the intelligence service to have cases, documents, registrations of persons who are no longer relevant at all? We can live with that in the rapporteur's opinion?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117182901	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117182903	I can only say what I said before that in the ideal world there was no record that should not be registered. But if you look at what the intelligence service is going to use the funds for today, I would prefer that they be used to combat terrorist attacks here in Denmark rather than to go through the archives on a monthly basis or six months apart or a year apart. So it is probably a matter of priority, as the questioner is right.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117182930	Thank you, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen. There are no more questions. Then we'll go over to mr. Rune Lund from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117183002	This bill, as the debate has shown up to now, is that a practice which the Intelligence Directorate considers illegal can continue once this bill has been adopted, but under a legal framework, because the practice that PET has had so far will be legalised. The practice criticised by the Intelligence Supervisory Authority because the legislation is clear is the view of Enhedslisten that PET has not permanently removed registrations when they were no longer relevant, and secondly that PET has not removed information at document level if they were no longer relevant, even if other information was still relevant in one document. That's the main element of this bill. After all, the fact that we have an oversight which, unfortunately, is not strong enough at all makes the matter problematic. It can be said that if we had a supervision that was really strong enough, then it would be a supervision that could knock PET into place when PET did not comply with otherwise clear legislation. Perhaps part of the problem with that is that supervision has the same head as PET, namely the Minister of Justice. The supervision should be genuinely independent, it should perhaps be placed under the authority of the Folketing, we would like to see it in the Enhedslisten, and it would also be a normalisation in relation to what you see in other countries. I also think that this is a problem, especially when we see the consultation response from the supervisory board, which says that the draft law significantly reduces the tasks that supervision has hitherto considered to be its most important. This is a problem in itself, but it is an even bigger problem, since the supervision today is only working to control PET in relation to personal records, even though the supervision, if it stood at Enhedslisten, was in fact working with a broader mandate and for example. also could look at the way that PET works with interceptions, or the way that PET works in relation to operations. So that makes this bill even more problematic. We can also see that there has been a large number of consultation responses expressing concern. For example, the Lawyer's Board states that the PET Act contains extensive powers for PET to provide data on persons who are not suspected of criminal offences as long as the information may have an impact on the activities of the Service or is necessary for the performance of the other duties of the Service. There is therefore a considerable interest for individuals, and we very much agree with the Lawyers' Council in not having to appear in a register with PET any longer than necessary. This is, of course, even more relevant, and the Lawyers' Council also submits this because it is information that the person concerned does not know exists. The Association for Legal Affairs has also produced a hearing response which notes what we have also seen in today's debate, namely that the argument here is resource consumption and that according to PET the IT programmes are not designed so it is easy to delete. The IT platform you have obviously only supports deletion at case and document level, but not at information level. It has to be said that, over the last 10-15 years, PET has been given a great deal of resources, that, if PET had complied with the legislation in place, it probably would not have had a great deal of work to do and that there are IT programmes that can delete data even in scanned documents. So there are IT solutions that could solve this problem. All in all, the fact that a bill is being presented here in the Danish Parliament, which significantly reduces the legal certainty of citizens, with the argument that it is a resource issue, in which, at the same time, it has not been explained very precisely how much resources would be involved if we chose to stick to what supervision says, makes this proposal even more wrong, wrong, unnecessary, wrong and boring. I note that the Institute for Human Rights has also given a hearing answer, and they recommend, in addition to not adopting the proposal, that details should be given of how the procedures for deletion should be forward-looking, because that is rather unclear. In this context, it would also be very nice to know how much resources might be involved if the current legislation were to be complied with. At any rate, this is something that I would like the Minister to respond to today's debate, and otherwise it is something that we will follow up in relation to asking questions during committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117183527	Thank you, sir. Rune Lund. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Christina Egelund from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117183542	Thank you. The bill contains two parts. We have no objection to the one part, which concerns the transfer of PET's tasks relating to organised crime to the National Investigation Centre of the National Police. The second part, which concerns PET's obligation to delete data, is more problematic from the perspective of the Liberal Alliance. The practice criticized is sought to be legalised. PET has extensive powers to provide data on persons who are not suspected of criminal offences as long as the information may have an impact on the activities of the Service or is necessary for the performance of the other duties of the Service. This should result in greater safeguards for the legal certainty of citizens in relation to the fact that they do not appear in PET registers for longer than is necessary. Therefore, the principle that PET should in future also delete personal data that are not necessary for PET's work should be maintained. I think that the IT-Politics Association, in its response to the hearing, has a good point when they state that the supervision of intelligence services has a very important role to play in ensuring the public's confidence in the work that PET is doing in order to protect national security. PET should therefore correct its criticism. It is subversive to the work and function of supervision in relation to PET if only PET's practices are legalised if PET does not wish to follow the instructions of supervision. That was the principle. Then it is argued on the basis of a logic that it is resource-intensive for PET to delete unnecessary data. Yes, but quite frankly, we cannot and we must not address the issue of legal certainty on the issue that it is difficult or burdensome for the authorities to enforce legal certainty. Companies are also burdened by legislation for the sake of the legal certainty of citizens and, as well as complying with it, the same must, of course, apply to the State authorities. On this basis, the Liberal Alliance cannot therefore support the draft law. On the other hand, I have promised to welcome the Conservative People's Party and to say that they support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117183801	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier from the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117183814	Every time Rune Lund's been up here, you have to turn down the platform. As several speakers have said, this proposal has three elements or three objectives. The first is that PET's tasks relating to the most serious organized crime will be transferred to the National Investigation Centre of the National Police. The second is that the rules on when PET is required to delete data will be changed. And the third element is that, in future, the rules will be set in such a way that the supervision of the intelligence services itself will approve its employees, rather than the Ministry doing so. We agree with the first and final element of the draft law. Not least, we think the last element is very good because it ensures greater independence for the supervision of intelligence services. Compared to item no. I don't think it's a surprise that we're really worried. In short, we believe that both the content of the legislative proposal and the process leading to the legislative proposal are completely untenable in a constitutional state. In relation to the content: PET already has quite wide powers to collect information about the Danish citizens. At the same time, the government has cut off the possibility of examining the state of law in Denmark in the field of counter-terrorism and intelligence services, through the abolition of the terrorist committee last year, which, among other things, has been the case. was intended to examine and assess the balance between the terrorist protection and legal certainty. In short, we find it worrying that the government believes that in future PET should not actively delete the information that is no longer considered necessary for the performance of its duties. This obviously involves an accumulation, an enormous accumulation, of information about Danish citizens, without there being any professional basis for PET to hold this information. Knowledge is, as you know, power, and in our optics it goes without saying that the power of every authority, including the intelligence services in particular, should be limited to what is necessary, and that is exactly the opposite of what is being done in this draft law. It may be that it requires a great deal of resources, as has also been mentioned in the debate so far, that PET should actively identify and delete the information that they no longer use. But that is absolutely the least we can do now that, in the past decade or two, we have repeatedly expanded the powers, resources and capabilities of the intelligence services. According to the Minister, the purpose of the bill is to strike the right balance between, on the one hand, the fact that PET does not process more information than is necessary and, on the other hand, PET's operational resources are used for PET's core task of preventing and combating terrorism. We fully agree in the alternative that there must be balance. That is why this bill is all the more surprising to us because it will cause a massive imbalance in the already large imbalance between these two considerations. Thus, for example, it states: also the IT-Politic Association in the Hearing Responses, that the PET Act provides a very broad framework for collecting personal data, and only by complying with the current rules will we ensure that the extent of the many irrelevant and unnecessary information collected is limited, thereby also limiting the interference with the citizen's right to privacy. Finally, I would like to point out, and several people have done so in this debate, the absurdity that lies in the process leading up to this bill. Because the reason why we are discussing this today is that PET has not complied with the current rules on deleting data that are no longer necessary for the performance of their duties. This in itself is a very serious matter, but the matter is even more spawned by the fact that the intelligence services' oversight has supposedly tried four times in vain to get the Minister for Justice to help get PET to delete the illegal information discovered by the spot checks. Well, the Minister has indicated that it was unsatisfactory, but is it really true that, firstly, if PET does not comply with the law and, secondly, ignores the supervision that has just been set in the world to control PET, the political consequence is to relax the rules for PET by means of a change of law? We believe, instead of strengthening the supervision of intelligence services as soon as possible, so that they can effectively control both PET and the Defence Intelligence Service and so that they have the opportunity to stop illegal activities. Against this background, the alternative cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117184234	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on quickly to Mrs Zenia Stampe from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117184249	Thank you. The proposal consists of two parts. The first part is about weakening the PET law's deletion rules. The bill implies that the service will only be obliged to delete documents and information in documents if the intelligence service happens to fall over a document where the criteria for registration are no longer met or if a citizen himself seeks access to any unjustified records. This means that the service will no longer be obliged to review documents and document information for the purpose of deletion even on an ongoing basis. That's what I wrote down. Now I have listened to the debate, and in fact all of this can be put together in one sentence: that is the way it is, unless you yourself turn to the intelligence service through this system of insight and are told that you are registered, and then you can be deleted, but if you do not, the principle is: once registered, always registered. I find this extremely worrying and therefore we are strongly opposed to this part of the proposal. PET has very wide powers to collect data on citizens in Denmark • citizens who are not suspected of illegal matters but who may nevertheless have some relevance to a case. That power is, of course, conditional on continuous assessment and verification of whether the registrations comply with the processing criteria. When they no longer meet the criteria, they must be deleted. It is, of course, a completely fundamental principle: one is registered as long as it is relevant to the work of the intelligence service, but at the moment it is no longer relevant one should not be registered, because registration is a major interference with personal freedom. It is so fundamental that I almost fail to understand that the Minister, who comes from the Danish Liberal Party, has proposed it here and put forward this proposal in the Folketing. I'm having a really hard time understanding that. This is a completely fundamental principle which we support and which is why we cannot under any circumstances support this part of the draft law. The second part is completely different. It is really positive, because it does seem to us to promote legal certainty. Because it is about placing the tasks in PET that have been about ordinary crime, that is, serious organized crime, away from PET and back with the National Police. That's very reasonable. We were critical of it when it was transferred to the secret service, because the secret service has special powers linked to the work and tasks relating to the security of the nation. We were afraid that these powers would also be used in relation to the new tasks relating to ordinary crime. Whether those concerns were justified or not, I do not know, but at least we always thought it was a bad idea that PET got these tasks mixed into their portfolio of tasks, which ought to be linked to the security of the nation. That is why we are very pleased with that part of the bill, that is to say that ordinary crime is being laid out for the National Police, so we are absolutely sure that PET does not apply its extended powers in these areas; for that was never the intention. In view of our different positions with regard to the two proposals and also in view of the fact that these are two proposals which are, of course, about PET, but which are also about two completely different things, we hope that the Minister will be open to splitting up the proposal. I also hear that others have the same position as us, that is to say positive towards one part, but negative towards the other part. That is why we are going to propose that the bill be split up so that we can vote for the part of the task, that is to say the part about moving tasks from PET to the National Police.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117184646	Thank you to Mrs Zenia Stampe. There are no brief comments. The last rapporteur to speak is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117184702	As previous rapporteurs have said, there are three elements to this draft law, L 71, and I would first like to address the two points which we in the SF would like to vote for and which we would like to support in order to be able to vote in favour of, namely the first, that there should be a better division of labour between PET and the other police, and the third, that the supervision of intelligence services and intelligence services themselves, and not the Ministry of Justice, should take decisions on security authorisations for the secretariat's staff. In short, we support this. That's very good, that's very sensible. What is controversial about this bill, which I was actually appalled by when it was aired for the first time, and now again, when it is actually on the table, is that we want to legalise a practice that was criticized by the intelligence services in the spring, namely a practice in which random checks showed that in 20 per cent. of the cases were not carried out what was to be carried out, namely erased data on persons, organisations, parliamentary politicians who were not relevant to the work of the intelligence service or had fallen for the erasing deadline. I think it is scandalous that we now have the supervision, which is our only way of having a little control over a very powerful intelligence service, that we should pull on the back of such criticism and that the country's Minister of Justice does not even say: it is really embarrassing, it is not good enough, of course, but instead it says: well, that was too bad, we should change the law so that we can continue with this practice. I think it is scandalous to say that it is resource-intensive to follow the law, but it will not even give an estimate of what it requires of resources. Over the last 15 years, PET has gained massively more muscles, powers, crowns and ears, and there is also a threat to Denmark, and there are a large number of tasks that PET has to perform. But I think it's scandalous when PET has got these extra resources and says that they just don't have a system that can handle these personal data; that the information is out there, but they don't have an overview of it; that it takes too much to review them manually and that they don't have an IT system that can support it; that you don't even try to start asking for an estimate of what it costs in the year's work; ask for an estimate of what it costs to make an IT system that can handle it; and then try to see if you can find a majority to secure additional resources; yet again, but additional resources for this task can be solved. You don't. With a stroke of pens, you just want to change the law and even to a degree, so there have been bell-clear critical consultation responses from a large number of organizations: from the Lawyers' Council, from the Institute of Human Rights, from the IT-Politics Association, from the Legal Policy Association, from the Supervisory Board of Intelligence and from Professor Henrik Stevnsborg. You get a hearing answer that says in fairly clear terms that this is simply not going to work. Several of the hearings say that it is contrary to Article 8 of the Convention on Human Rights on the right to privacy, and it is clear that this is not in line with legal principles or with personal data law-related principles in relation to persons who have never done anything illegal, never been suspected of anything, but who have appeared, as PET has had a perfectly legitimate reason to look for other things. In relation to the fact that PET's powers have been extended and there are more people being monitored, and there are new technological ways to monitor many more people because we can find out about IT, technologically speaking, and as many more people end up in this archive, I think it is scandalous that we are not demanding that at the moment a person is no longer relevant to the work of the intelligence service, he should of course not be in these archives. I simply do not think it is worthy of the rule of law. After all, there are plenty of other areas where it is resource-intensive for public authorities and private companies etc. to abide by the law. There is no going to be said: we regret that this is such a hassle for you, so now we are changing the Personal Data Act or any other legislation that may conflict with it. It can also be said that it will, of course, be a greater bother and a greater administrative burden when a case has been worked up for such a long time. That is also why the law says that it must be done on an ongoing basis. I would just like briefly to quote some points that I consider important in some of the hearings. The IT-Politics Association writes, and I completely agree with that: it is subversive to the work and function of the supervision in relation to PET if you simply legalise PET's practice if PET does not want to follow the supervision of the intelligence services' instructions. The supervisory authority itself states that, on that basis, the supervision has indicated that the draft law significantly reduces the tasks which the supervision has hitherto considered to be its principal task and therefore requires supervision to re-evaluate the organisation of its controls. That's a nice way to say, you might as well put us down. If we make strong criticism and you pull on your shoulder, and if the main thrust of our work doesn't matter, what should we be for? So, in this context, we could add to the draft law, which laid down the function of supervision, when in this way we do not recognise and do not respect the important function of supervision. SF can in no way support this bill, but we would like to support the desire for fragmentation.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117185411	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen for her speech. Then the rapporteurs are finished and looking forward to hearing what the Minister of Justice has to say about L 71.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117185424	I should like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs for their contributions. It is a central objective of the government to ensure the security of its citizens. At a time when both the police and PET are faced with such major tasks as are the case in these years, the achievement of the objective of continuing to look at the working conditions of the authorities concerned. The draft law amending the PET Act, which is for the first reading today, contains some amendments to the PET Act to ensure that the division of work between the authorities is the right one and that the resources of the authorities can be used as effectively as possible to solve their core tasks. I have also noticed that several of the rapporteurs have examined it, but, in other words, it is clear that the draft law contains three main elements. The least controversial issue today has been the first part where the tasks relating to the most serious organized crime are transferred from PET to the other police. The second part involves some changes to the rules on the deletion of data by PET; that is what most rapporteurs have concentrated on. The changes arise from issues raised by the Intelligence Directorate prior to the summer recess concerning PET's deletion of data. In the light of the observations made by the supervisory authority, the draft law aims to clarify the PET law rules on deletion so that there is no doubt as to the extent of PET's obligations. In the view of the Government, the rules governing the processing of data by PET should strike a balance between, on the one hand, the non-excessive processing of data not necessary for the performance of PET's tasks and, on the other hand, the fact that PET should not use excessive resources to delete legally provided information. Therefore, the government proposes that PET should legally delete cases or documents when PET becomes aware in its activities that they are no longer necessary to preserve, but that PET is not additionally obliged to review all its cases and documents on an ongoing basis with a view to considering deletion. The Government also proposes that PET should not, as a rule, delete individual information which, in isolation, is no longer necessary to preserve if it is part of a document which is otherwise to be retained. These changes clarify the PET's obligation to delete data. At the same time, the Government considers that an appropriate balance is ensured between the consideration that PET does not unduly process data and the consideration that PET's operational resources are used for core tasks, such as: to combat terrorism. The last part contains a minor change. The competence to make decisions on the security accreditation of officials of the Supervisory Board of the Secret Service will be transferred from the Ministry of Justice to the Supervisory Board itself. This is done on the basis of a view that supervision as an appointing authority itself is best placed to take such a decision. I look forward to the debate that will take place on this proposal and answer any questions that may be raised in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117185730	We shall start with a brief remark from Mr. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117185734	The Minister of Justice comes from a party called the Danish Liberal Party. I assume this also means that it is a party that is very concerned about the legal certainty of citizens. And when we then see a legislative proposal which seriously reduces citizens' legal certainty, with the argument that it is a resource issue, why is it that the draft law does not contain detailed information about what it would cost if PET actually did what the supervision has asked them for for a long time, namely to continually delete information that is not needed, even if it is part of documents which, moreover, contain information that is still relevant? Why do we not have any estimates and any estimates of what it would cost to actually comply with the supervision requirements for PET?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117185838	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117185841	The full name of my party actually sounds Left, the Liberal Party of Denmark, so there are some such different common concerns that are dealt with with with the common name in four words, which I would very much like to explain to Mr. Rune Lund one day over maybe a single lager. However, in relation to the question, it has to be said that if PET were to delete data, as indicated by the supervision, it would mean that PET would have to review all cases of the service on an ongoing basis with a view to considering deletion. In this respect, PET would have to assess whether all individual information was necessary to preserve, even if it was included in documents which, moreover, were necessary to preserve. It is therefore very difficult to say how much resources it would cost more. Among other things, it will: depends on how often PET should be required to examine all its cases and documents. However, in the view of the government, the demand for continuous examination of cases and documents would be extremely resource-intensive. What hits the nail is that it will largely be PET's operative staff who would have to read and put together the material in order to consider deletion. So it's not just a question of crowns and ears. PET would not be able to maintain its operational capacity and, at the same time, meet the new requirements for deletion simply by adding additional financial resources to the service. But now Parliament will then have the opportunity to ask those questions in the legislative process, and we will of course reply in writing as best we can to what is now being asked.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117190022	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117190025	That will certainly be asked. At least I'm gonna ask about it. But another thing on which this bill is based is that PET apparently has an IT platform that can only delete information at case level and document level, but not at information level. This is the case, although there are actually IT programs that can delete data even in scanned documents; that sort of thing exists. So before a majority in the Danish Parliament begins to adopt legislation that undermines citizens' legal certainty, why have we not had a discussion in the Danish Parliament's Committee on Legal Affairs on what other measures we might do, make, initiate to avoid this undermining of legal certainty?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117190119	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117190124	Now Mr. Rune Lund the expression about the situation he thinks. I do not share that view. But the reason why we are putting forward a legislative proposal is that there has been a discussion about the state of law, and it is incumbent on us as a government that the legal situation is clear. We have wanted to create that clarity, and I have then discussed this with the Folketing, and right now, therefore, the implementation of those discussions comes into the Chamber itself, and I do not really see what can be more democratic than that. Whatever else is to be discussed in the Parliamentary Committee on Legal Affairs, I do not want to interfere at all. That's up to you. And to the extent that we can contribute to those discussions, of course we do so in the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117190202	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117190206	Thank you. The Minister for Justice said in a previous debate here in the Danish Parliament that citizens' legal certainty is the cornerstone of democracy, and the Minister for Justice also said in his speech just before that the Minister for Justice is concerned about ensuring the safety of citizens. But I hope that the Minister for Justice is also concerned about guaranteeing the right of citizens to freedom and legal certainty, and so I would like to ask the Minister for Justice quite calmly: does the Minister not think that this is a problem, that is, that there are people in these registers who have never done anything illegal, who have never intended to do anything illegal, which for all kinds of other reasons is in these registers, and do not have legal certainty also a price and a price in kroner and ear, and could it not be an opportunity to try to get an overview of what it costs in resources and then discuss whether we could find that money?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117190317	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117190319	The key thing for me is two things. Firstly, it is legally collected information, and secondly, there is also an ultimate deadline for deletion of information in any case. So the two things in combination mean that the subset which is so worrying to the rapporteur, I think we can live with, in a situation where the real alternative is to reduce PET's operational capacity. I'll tell you what. And yes, I certainly have legal ideals, but I also have to confront them with the real world, and legal certainty is very important, but it is a longer word than security, and therefore one always has to weigh the two things together. I can vouch for the balance that has been achieved here.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117190408	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117190411	If you guard security over freedom, you get neither. The minister says this is about legally collected material. Yes, that is the starting point, but then it becomes illegal storage of personal data. After all, supervision has criticised this and every time the Minister says that it is legally collected, there must also be the last part of the sentence, yes, but now it is illegally stored personal sensitive information. I simply think it is to make fun of both supervision and the role of supervision, but also of the rest of us who say, yes, sometimes we have suffered from giving so much muscle and resources to the police intelligence service, but we can live with it as long as we also know that there is some kind of supervision. That is what also defines democracy, that is to say, not only do intelligence services live completely their own lives without any control or supervision.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117190521	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117190523	I do not quite understand what is described here. For example: It is clear from the PET law that I am overseeing PET and have the highest responsibility for what is happening with PET, and in this way, moreover, I represent Parliament in this context. There is, moreover, an independent supervisory body, and what I am going to say about this is that there is a dispute here about the interpretation of law, and I shall then put it to the elected representatives and ask their opinion, and it would appear that there is a reasonable degree of gravity behind a legal situation in which, on the one hand, there is a need for legal certainty, where at some point there is a deletion of this information, but, on the other hand, there is no flattening of PET's operational capacity. This isn't about putting security above freedom. This is about a balance between the two.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117190611	Mrs Zenia Stampe for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117190615	But is the Minister not at all afraid that there will be an accumulation of data when you do not keep them under constant review or assess whether those data are relevant at all? For the scenario we have now heard described, both by the Minister of Justice and also by the rapporteur of the Left, shows that there are incredibly many documents and an incredible amount of information and that it is totally incalculable to review. But is it not precisely because the task of constantly assessing whether the information has remained relevant has failed? I think it is an extremely strange picture that is being drawn by the intelligence service, as if it were a service which has 10 000 or 100.000 cases open at once. I have also worked in the public sector, although I do not have the experience of the intelligence service, but it is my experience that public companies do not usually have 10,000 cases open all the time. So, in order to boil down the question, is the Minister not afraid that this will lead to an infinite accumulation of cases and therefore also an infinite accumulation of records of innocent citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117190725	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117190728	No. Because in any case there will be time limits for deletion. So I'm not really worried about that. I am more concerned that it can completely reduce PET's operational capacity. At the same time, I am also aware that, if there are employees who have the documents in question and who become aware that this information is no longer necessary, it will also be taken care of. So I think that we have found a sensible balance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117190755	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117190758	Then I would actually like to ask you something concrete. Because when I read the speech, and when I read some of the answers to the hearings, I actually have some doubts as to whether the deadlines are really included in this. In any case, I understand that it seems to me that those cases which are no longer relevant but which are within the time limit no longer need to be deleted. But what about those cases where the deadline has been exceeded? Should they be deleted only if you happen to fall over them? Are these also the cases that have not been opened for 15 years?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117190840	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117190843	No. After all, there is an objective and clear deadline. There is one final date of sale, if I may say so, and that is why I do not entirely share the concern of Mrs Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117190852	Then we thank the Minister for Justice very much. No one else has asked to speak, and that is why the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117190913	The debate is open and the team setup is the same as before, and that is why we start with Mrs Trine Bramsen from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117190939	Thank you. Unfortunately, in recent months and years, we have seen an increase in the number of threats and attacks on public servants. The many assaults, the harassment of prison officers, attacks on hospital staff, among others. Slagelse, as we saw in the last year, harassment of police officers, their families and others who serve our society is also the reason why we are discussing this bill. The draft law is aimed at strengthening the scope for sanctions in relation to those who obviously do not understand or manage to behave properly and respect our public employees and the public space. I should like to start by saying that we in the Socialist Group can support the proposal here. We will not just watch while nurses, prison officers, police officers and others experience threats, harassment and violence. The draft law contains a number of different proposals which, overall, will help to strengthen respect in public spaces, and I would like to highlight a number of them here. First of all, there is the proposal to amend Article 81 of the Penal Code, so if a victim is subject to a crime because of his or her public service or, for example, his or her spouse, it must be included as a penal circumstance in determining the actual punishment. In addition, it is proposed that Section 119 of the Criminal Code. 1, expand. Thus, the provision of violence against persons in the public service will include threats made by third parties and threats made publicly or intentionally to the wider circulation. In addition, there is an addition to the law that it is a penalty-breaking circumstance, with an increase of about one third, that acts of violence against persons on public service are committed while, or immediately following, that there is a serious disturbance of order in the area in the public place or that the relationship has been committed against the person concerned in his spare time. In addition, a number of other punishments are included, with which I will not go into more detail. This bill is, of course, very broad, but overall we think it is sensible, given that it is about violence, threats, harassment and other indecent behaviour towards the professional groups mentioned and in the public domain. However, although we in the Socialist Group support the proposals here, I also have to say that we do not believe that they can stand alone in the fight against threats, violence and harassment. When we talk about the prison officers, we also have to look at the relationship work inside the prisons, so it is about the resources in the prisons, and it is about the level of competence. I note, then, that this is the comment of the prison staff's trade union, the Prison Association, when it comes to the abuses and threats against the prison staff. And we think the same is true in a broad sense. Because enough we can punish and maybe we can give a sense of justice. I am totally in favour of that, and I do not underestimate that, but at all times it must be preferable for us to prevent instead of punishing afterwards. The relationship work is also one of the things that has been working with the police, where a toolbox has been developed so that early action can be taken if there is suspicion that there are suspects or other persons who have a behavior that can develop into harassment or, at worst, violence against employees. And precisely that type of toolboxes I think we need to look at even more so that our public employees are geared to tracking when there are some who have a behavior that can develop afterwards and so you can put in place conflict management early. Our legal policy must go on two legs. We may have to punish, but we must never forget the prevention, and that is why the request to the Minister must also be that we not only leave these proposals alone, even if we support them, but that we also follow them up with the focus on reducing harassment, violence and threats. This benefits both our society and, above all, the people we want to protect with the proposals that we are discussing here today. In spite of everything, however, I have to say that we support the package of proposals contained in the legislative proposal we are discussing here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117191438	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117191443	This bill is, of course, a very big bill, and it contains good elements, and it contains elements that I certainly think are really bad. One of the elements that I find problematic is what the comments say in 2.1, and it is of course a matter of the fact that, today, if the act is committed by a person without a penalty, it will be an aggravating circumstance. But this bill means that in future that provision will also include acts committed by a person in custody, that is to say, a person who has not been convicted yet, and therefore if one is to stick to the principle of innocence until the opposite has been proved. However, the person will nevertheless be affected by the principle of aggravating circumstances if the person commits an illegal act. Is it not very problematic to extend the provision to those in custody in this way?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117191547	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117191550	This is precisely about the fact that when we have people in custody who commit violence against those who are employed to look after them, yes, it is an aggravating circumstance. This is quite fair, not least in view of the fact that the threats, the violence against the prison staff, are increasing. So we have no problem with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117191617	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117191621	I just think it is interesting when we have legislation that is about the fact that it is an aggravating circumstance if you commit crime, if you are a person who does justice, that you then extend it to people who, as such, do not suffer punishment because they have not yet been convicted. I note that I agree with the Lawyers' Council, the Institute of Human Rights, the National Association of Defence Attorneys and the Legal Policy Association in that view. However, I understand that this is not the view of the Socialist rapporteur. Is there anything in this bill that the Social Democrat rapporteur considers to be just a little problematic, because I can find many?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117191707	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117191709	I do not think it is a secret that there are a number of the proposals that form part of this package that we ourselves have been involved with, both before the government changed, but also afterwards. And it's against that background that we can support the pot here. However, as I also said very clearly in my rapporteur's speech, we in the Social Democratic Party never believe that punishment can stand alone. We would much rather prevent than punish. And we must remember that our legal policy must always go on two legs, and that is also why we are sending a very strong call to the Minister for Justice not to leave the sanctions alone, but also to focus on preventing the existence of a relationship and avoiding the need to use this package.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117191754	Thank you to Mrs Trine Bramsen. There are no more brief comments. Is there another one? Let's take it with us. Mrs. Zenia Stampe, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117191806	I would like to ask Mrs Trine Bramsen about the part of the proposal which deals with these dangerous run-ups. The proposal is, of course, that a instigator of a dangerous race should be liable for all the damage caused by this event. Then I have a thoughtful situation here: you call for a demonstration. There are some fighters who are not really part of the demonstration, but who think it might be fun to have a little walk in the street. They're gonna come along and break some windows. I'm the one who arranged the demonstration. So I'm the one who's gonna pay for the damage they've done?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117191849	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117191852	There is, of course, in the proposal that, when you are the one who incites this unrest, and you are the one who starts the unrest, yes, you also bear the responsibility. But it does not change in principle that when you arrange a demonstration, you have a moral obligation to try to keep the troops under control and to say that it is a peaceful, democratic demonstration. However, the proposal here is aimed at those who instigate violence. It is also very clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117191922	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117191925	Yes, but how would one judge whether a person has instigated violence if that person has not said: come, let us smash some windows, and even cast a stone? How, then, will it be assessed, especially when the vandalists or perpetrators who are there do not even know the instigator? I would like to say a few words about how to assess whether a race is dangerous, i.e. whether it depends on how to assess whether someone is inciting violence.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117191953	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117191956	Fortunately, we have our courts to assess this on the basis of intelligence, on the basis of video surveillance, on the basis of witness interviews and everything else.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117192008	Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117192012	Thank you. This is actually an issue that comes to an end from the question put by Mrs Zenia Stampe. For the rapporteur said that it is up to the caller or leader to keep track of the troops. That is also something I have wondered about, because what kind of troops are we supposed to keep track of? So where is the weighting between the intentions, for example. Is it lying? Let's just say that one says: Come on, let's go throw some stones on McDonald's window when it was down on the Round, and all of a sudden there are other groups that are not one of your own troops and that maybe both burn cars off and do things worse. Does the rapporteur think that the liability which then lies can fairly be placed with those who, for example, have to pay compensation? in this case has called for a stone to be cast?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117192107	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117192111	I replied very clearly to that question in the first place. I don't know if the questioner who's on now has missed my answer. Yes, we believe that you have a moral responsibility as the organiser of a demonstration. But what this is all about, what we're discussing here, is about the one who's instigating a race. And do we think it is fair that you should pay for and reimburse the damage if, for example, you have urged to throw stones at a McDonald's; if you are the one who has been shouting that come, we are all throwing stones at a McDonald's? Yeah, who else would do that?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117192149	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117192153	But it does not include the fact that the rapporteur takes responsibility away from those who, for example, are responsible. Are the cars burning off? Well, there's someone inciting a demonstration that's someone who's a caller, leader, let's call it what we want, and incite to throw with stones. And then there's someone else who burns off cars or does something worse. What about his responsibility? Is it still the one who has then written on Facebook or sent out text messages to his friends, who are supposed to take responsibility from the person in question, who may have carried out a much, much worse form of crime?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117192225	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117192229	No, that doesn't rule out this proposal. It will always be a personal responsibility. It will always be up to the courts to judge the person who can be shown to have committed the crime. But we also have to recognise that there are riots where we can point to the one who has called for the action, but where it is difficult to identify those who have caused the direct damage. And that's what this bill is about to make up for. But if you have the actual perpetrator who has caused the actual damage, it will be him or her who will have to be held responsible at all times.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117192258	Thank you, Mrs. Trine Bramssen, and welcome to Mr. Bramsen. Peter Kofod Poulsen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117192308	The bill we are now considering is the result of the respect package that we entered into earlier this year in the Danish People's Party with the government, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives. I should like to start by saying that we are very pleased with the steps we took in relation to the I respect package. It was beyond doubt for us that action had to be taken in this area and that for too many years there had been a slippage in respect for our public servants, for example. police officers and prison officers who each day solve a very, very important and invaluable task for Danish society. When we presented the package at the time, I was asked whether it was not just a package that was about punishment and punishment. I think it is appropriate to say punishment with punishment, because that is what this package is also about. I could go through all the initiatives, and I think that there is plenty to be done, so I should just mention a few, which I think is particularly good. These are the sharper penalties for all forms of crime committed in order to harm public employees or the closest to public employees, because you are a public servant. These are aggravated penalties for attacks on public employees also in leisure time, sharpened penalties for insulting public service charges, but also better opportunities for private television surveillance. I think that is excellent initiatives, which is why the package is good. I think we have seen over recent times how some people think they can get away with bothering and harassing our public employees. This must not be the case, and it must, of course, be stopped. In particular fresh remembrance is the gross and totally unacceptable assaults on prison officers during the summer. It is also in fresh memory how police officers at Christiania were harassed in the most serious way, how their children were referred to, and they were hung out on the Internet, in several cases with names, pictures and addresses, and then you are just really, really exposed. It was not because they had done something wrong, but simply because they were doing their job, the work that society needs to be done. Now it's time to come to the rescue of our employees, and that's good. So are we there yet? No, I don't think so. I think we can do more in the future, which is why I would also like to sign off on the fact that the government called it a package of respect. You can imagine what's coming after you could be II or III etc. etc. We take this from the Danish People's Party as an outstretched hand towards the fact that we have not yet achieved our goal, but regularly need to keep an eye on this area and look at the penalties for people who cannot figure out how to behave properly so that we can put these people even longer behind bars. This is excellent, we think, and I can therefore also announce that the Danish People's Party supports the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117192623	There is a brief comment from Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117192627	Yeah, now they're thinking, what's the name of this night of examples, right? But I was inspired by Mr. Rune Lund, who referred earlier to paragraph 2.1 of this bill, which deals with the fact that if inmates commit an atrocity, something criminal, against an official, it may be an aggravating circumstance. Then I think that, in principle, this prisoner is not guilty; we do not yet know that he is in custody. However, it may be an aggravating circumstance that you are in custody. What if it was the cook in the institution who might also have some relationship with the employee in question, or a cleaning assistant or someone else who wasn't convicted of anything either? It would also be an aggravating circumstance if he went out and committed crime against, for example. a prison official?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117192733	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117192735	There are two points I would like to highlight in relation to the question raised by Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier. As paragraph 1, I think that the previous rapporteur explained very well what is going on in relation to the draft law. Paragraph 2 is that, just because you are in custody, you are not allowed to beat a prisoner, if that is the case. Then I think it's fine that we get put in. Over the past few years, we have seen a salutation in our prisons, so it has become harder to be a prison officer, they have been incredibly exposed. That is why I think it is good that we come to their rescue. In fact, I think it is a little bit strange that a proposal such as exactly what the questioner chooses can fall on anyone's chest.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117192815	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117192818	It falls to my chest precisely because you are innocent until proven otherwise. So how can this be an aggravating circumstance? I fully agree with the rapporteur that justice must be right and punishment must be given if a crime is committed; we fully agree on that. But the fact that it is an aggravating circumstance that you are in custody seems to me to be a breach of legal certainty for the person concerned, who has not yet been convicted of anything. So that is what my question is all about. Does the rapporteur not agree with me on this point: as long as you are not convicted of anything, how can this be an aggravating circumstance?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117192846	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117192849	It is still the courts that judge. I just think the questioner and I disagree.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117192853	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117192857	I do not have any illusions that I can persuade the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party not to support this bill, but I am nevertheless so naive to believe that I may be able to get the rapporteur to accept an amendment to the draft law which concerns the part called 2.5 in the comments. And that is because the Østre Landsret has actually given a hearing answer very remarkably. It is not always the case that they do so, and then you have to read extra carefully what they are writing. They state that the proposed wording does not mean that the word is unjustified, as is the case with other provisions on the violation of peace. They therefore consider that the scope of application appears to be extremely wide in the case of inquiries, i.e. contacting persons covered by § 119. A linguistic clarification should therefore be considered, so that it is clear from the wording of the provision itself that not every contact, but only the person entitled to compensation, has contact with persons in the public service, etc. falls within the scope of that provision.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117193019	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117193022	It is an extremely long and complicated question that the questioner asks me. I would like to look at it, I would like to take it up in committee, but it may be that the questioner will use his speaking time to explain further.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117193035	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117193039	It is about the fact that when you are harassing someone, and it is, moreover, very broadly worded in the draft law, you must not, as it has been formulated, turn to people who are covered by this bill, but the wording must be that you should not be unduly approached. And that is the clarification which the Østre Landsret would like to see incorporated. As I said, I have no illusions that the Danish People's Party will generally be opposed to this bill, but I think there are some clarifications that could be made in this bill so that it could be made less small overall than it is right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117193117	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117193120	I think that Mr. Rune Lund will have to take up those proposals when the Legal Affairs Committee deals with the matter here shortly, and then we will have to look at them together.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117193128	Thank you, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Preben Bang Henriksen from the Left, Denmark's Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117193141	Thank you, President. It is sad, it is very sad that today it is necessary to deal with this subject at all, but unfortunately it is necessary. We must have a package of respect, we must have greater respect for the performance of their work by public servants. It's people who work for society. It is not people who work for their own interests, but for the interests of the community. That is why we welcome the fact that the Minister for Justice has come up with such a comprehensive package of respect as is the case here. As other rapporteurs have said, it may be somewhat difficult to comment on the whole legislative proposal because there are so many different elements that have had to be included, but I will try to go into some of them in greater detail. This is a general cut-off, a general punishment to protect police, prisoners, social workers, nurses, etc. etc. I think that most of us remember the horrible examples of nurses being chased to some office in a hospital because hordes invade the hospital or, for that matter, prison officers who are molested outside prison and in their spare time, etc. etc. I shall not tire of further examples, but go to a few of the main points of the draft law here. In general, there will be penalties for various matters relating to public employees: verbal assaults, harassment, etc. and, above all, violence against public servants. It all gets a much needed tooth with the punishment, and as I said, we gladly welcome it. It is a question of making threats made via third parties a criminal offence as well. In other words, you go to the counter and say to the receptionist that you want to molest the mayor or whoever it is, yes, it also becomes a threat, even if it has not been put directly to the person concerned. It is quite excellent to clarify this. At any rate, a relationship has shaken me a lot by reading the bill, and that is the fact that when you are convicted and the criminal services have invited someone to serve, there are 42.7%. of the sentenced persons who do not show up. I am absolutely shocked by that figure, and that now brings with it the change that the Minister for Justice, in his proposal, has listed sanctions for not showing up. I would hurry to say that I could well imagine in my quiet mind sanctions that were much tougher than the fine imposed here. But hopefully it will have a deterrent effect, because it is for the authorities to be completely ridiculous when 42.7%. of the sentenced persons do not show up for service. A single relationship may deserve more publicity, because normally it is the case that you are responsible only for what you have done yourself, I would have liked to say. There are exceptions around in particular legislation. The employer is responsible for the responsible behaviour of employees, parents may be responsible for children's ditto etc., but here we introduce that there will be liability for the person who leads a race. Let me stress here as clearly as I can at all: this has nothing to do with a voluntary, peaceful demonstration. You can call all the demonstrations you want. That doesn't make you liable for compensation. But if the demonstration develops, if the demonstration breaks down and there is real vandalism, what we also call influx, with resulting damage, yes, then the instigator of the influx, whoever is the leader of the run-up, must, in future, put up with the risk of being jointly and severally responsible with a potential injurer. Then a cobblestone goes through a window, it is clear that then it is the one who throws the cobblestone that will first be liable for damages. The only problem is that it's very rare to find the person. We must then tell the shopkeepers that they are not completely without liability. So it must be the instigator who will be collectively responsible with the one who throws the cobblestone, and if you cannot find him, then it is one hundred per cent of the instigator. I think that is an excellent provision, and it can hopefully prevent some from doing so. Summa summarum, that's a whole series of regulations, much needed. Thank you to the Minister of Justice. The Left, of course, supports the proposal one hundred percent.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117193648	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117193652	I would like to ask you about paragraph 2.9, which deals with the penalty for non-payment from serving. I should like to ask whether the rapporteur will not confirm to me that, with regard to those who do not attend, these are often people who are already very poor in financial terms and that absences are mostly due to the fact that people do not have their e-Boks checked and that another part of the draft law, which deals precisely with the fact that you can send information to people who are going to serve per year. Texting could remedy this problem without at the same time harming those who are already poor in financial terms and those who subsequently have to pay a fine on the very small amount of money they can make in prison. It is revenue that comes from activities that we actually have an interest in doing, because it contributes to the pursuit of activities that take precedence over the fact that once you have served, you get out on the other side and have to enter society again in a normal life. So does the rapporteur not see that there is a major problem in the way it is put together in the legislative proposal as it stands?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117193815	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117193818	I cannot tell you what kind of people are missing from serving. I'll tell you what. I haven't seen any particular statistics or scientific research on it. From my own experience, I believe that there are also people who are better off, who find it more difficult to step up at prison sports and perhaps instead take a sip of their thirst. So, no, I am not quite sure that these are the most disadvantaged, but I cannot rule out the fact that the questioner is right. Then there's this thing about checking e-boks. I can easily follow the questioner. I would like these things to be notified in another way. I think that is one of the things we should have in committee: to what extent is it already happening today by texting and reading it at all? But it is clear that there are limits to how much we can do. If you both text and write to people's e-boks that they have to show up, you have to expect them to find out.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117193922	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117193924	The reason why I am asking this question is precisely that paragraph 2.7 of this proposal deals with the need for criminal services to have access to digital communications, i.e. text messages, which is good and one of the good things in the proposal. At the same time, however, my question is: why do we not try to solve the problem by means of a digital solution such as the one proposed in the draft law, which is good, rather than taking action by imposing fines when we know that it affects people who are already financially weak, and when we know that it can harm the work that is going on in criminal justice to ensure that, once they have finished serving, people get back out and can enter society? That is my question.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117194005	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117194007	But my thinking is not far from that of the questioner. I believe that what can be done must be done to ensure that people realise that they have to show up for service. But it is clear that they do not show up, there must also be a sanction. And that's quite a soft penalty, by the way. That's 1,000 kroner. We are talking about fines, and there can then be a set-off in what you receive from prison benefits, but not in necessities of life. But, of course, people need to be fully aware that they have to show up. I hope they do too today.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117194040	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117194042	It was just the description of the proposal that is about these dangerous run-ups that worried me. Now I have the answers to the hearings, and there is, in fact, some disagreement among the consultation parties. The Department of Human Rights isn't so worried, but it's the Lawyer's Council in return and they're both competent to assess this kind of thing. That is why I am listening to what is being said from the platform, and Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen states that if a demonstration breaks down and there is a violent uprising, it is the instigator who is liable. In other words, should I understand that a demonstration can be made without violent, dangerous intentions, and if there is sudden unrest in the ranks of some outsiders, or because it breaks down and becomes violent, then I am still away as the organizer of a real and, from the outset, peaceful demonstration that is responsible for these perpetrators?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117194144	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117194146	No, there is perhaps one who calls for a demonstration, and he is certainly not responsible for compensation for what goes on, nor for what goes on if it develops into what is referred to in the constitution as a race. But if the demonstration breaks down, and if there is a instigator of the race, then the subsequent violent crowd can be identified, yes, then he can be made liable for damages. But that is certainly not the case with the caller of the demonstration. So Mrs. Zenia Stampe can call in whatever she wants without being made liable. She just has to go home when there's violence and what we call riots and riots; then there's no danger at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117194230	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117194232	I ask because the Lawyers' Council is rather critical of this and particularly critical of it, because if you cannot even identify those who are violent or are engaged in vandalism, you do not really know whether they have followed this instigator or whether they even know who the instigator is. But according to the interpretation I'm hearing from Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, it is not the one who has called for the demonstration, but the one who is identified in the situation as the one who is inciting unrest or what to say, that is, someone who has evidence that has stirred up a mood and called for violence. Is that how it's supposed to be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20161117194328	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117194330	That is quite correct. I do not have the letter of the Lawyers' Council in mind, but, according to the comments, there is no doubt at all that it is as I say. And one of the problems is described precisely in the comments; it is that it is rarely possible to identify who it is that is in the rows throwing a cobblestone. But it is at least sometimes easier to identify the instigator of the riots through the communication that has been, whether verbally in a loudspeaker, by texting the protestors, over Facebook or by any other means. It is thought to be easier, and to the extent that it can be found, yes, it is the person who is attached. Once again, I should like to stress that all the peaceful demonstrations we wish to see can be held, but we must not continue in the event of riots and vandalism.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117194421	Thank you, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen. The next one is sir. Rune Lund from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117194440	This is a very comprehensive legislative proposal on many pages and with many consultation responses. This is a bill that has taken me a long time to read through. I also doubt whether I will be able to explain my position on all the parts of the proposal in the five minutes I have. So I will already announce to the President that I will have to make use of my second round of rapporteurs, otherwise I will simply not make it through the legislative proposal. Yes, it is a very comprehensive legislative proposal, and I really think it is problematic that it is a single legislative proposal and not several different legislative proposals, as we have seen with the imam package, which is, of course, many different legislative proposals. Five minutes to go through such a comprehensive bill here is simply too poor a treatment of our people's government, I think. But I will start by reviewing the parts of the bill that Enhedslisten is in favour of. I will start with 2.2, which is, of course, about increased penalties for all forms of crime which are based on the conduct of the public service by the injured person or his immediate superior. This part of the bill clarifies that it is an aggravating circumstance if it is so that the offence is based on the performance of the public service or duties of the injured person or his immediate superior. Today it is already the case that, in a number of cases, it may be regarded as a penal offence that a criminal offence is based on the conduct of a public service or of a public service or of a public office by the injured person or his loved ones, but 2.2., as described in the observations, specifies this aggravating circumstance and we are in favour of it. Then there are 2.3. which deals with the extension of the scope of the criminal code's special rule on threats and violence against people in public service. Today it is already the case in the criminal code that you can punish someone who, with violence or threat of violence, is attacking someone who is responsible for acting under public service or office. The threats are covered if they have been made directly to the protected person. The penal code, as formulated today, does not include threats made in the press, in public meetings or other places, or threats made on the Internet, for example. in chat forums, on social media or on websites, but which has not been made directly to the protected person. The law is then updated so that it is made clear that it is in future also prohibited to make threats in other ways than directly. We are, of course, in favour of this modernisation, and we note that the Minister of Justice believes that it will not have any influence on what the media must convey. It is a concern expressed by the Danish Journalists' Federation in their hearing response. At the same time, I would also like to note that Denmark has been convicted in a case before the European Court of Human Rights in the past. The case of Jersild against Denmark, which is, after all, about the European Court of Human Rights in September 1994, stated that TV journalist Jens Olaf Jersild and his editor, Lasse Jensen, could not be punished with daily fines for passing on racist statements by Copenhagen Green Jackets in the TV newspaper in 1985. The Court then ruled that it was a violation of editorial freedom of expression when, as the Danish courts had done, Jersild and Jensen had been convicted of passing on the opinions of others. And in that way the court then extended the scope of freedom of expression, and fortunately that judgment is still in force. Then there is 2.4., which deals with increased penalties for abuses of public service in the event of a serious disturbance of public order. Today, the rules are such that it is an aggravating circumstance if this occurs in the event of a serious disturbance in public order, if there are obstacles to the performance of public service or duties or vandalism. However, it is not clear today that it is an aggravating circumstance if an infringement of the provision has been committed while, or immediately following, a serious disturbance of order in the area is taking place in the public place. We are, from the outset, in favour of this part of the draft law, but there are a number of questions that we would like to ask in this context. Is the act included, even if the act does not take place as part of a tumultuous or gross disturbance of public order, that is, if the perpetrator himself does not participate in the serious disturbance but is a spectator? Is it included, and to what extent? The second part of 2.4. is about making it clear that it is an aggravating circumstance if the public servant is subjected to violence or threats of violence in his spare time. It is the case that there are already good opportunities today for it to be regarded as a penal circumstance, but that is then clarified in the legislation, and we can support that. You could say that there's a lot of symbol policy in this, that is, the second half of 2.4. because it can already be included but okay, that's a clarification. My speaking time has been exceeded, but may I just briefly mention 2.7, which deals with the access of criminal services to digital communications in the form of text messages. We are in favour of this. And then we are in favour of the fact that criminal services can use access to the income register to check whether the sentenced person receives social security benefits, so as to ensure that no social benefits are paid to the sentenced person who should be in prison but who does not show up for service. It is, of course, a tool that should be provided to the criminal services. These were the parts of the bill that we are in favour of. I would like to take the opportunity to take the floor in the second place to address the parts of the legislative proposal to which we are opposed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117195115	Thank you, sir. Rune Lund. This did not give rise to brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Christina Egelund from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117195123	Unfortunately, as previous rapporteurs have already explained, harassment and threats against public servants are increasing. I do not think I have to make the point that public servants do not always meet with the respect they deserve. We have to do something about that. The bill is, as Mr. Rune Lund also said in her rapporteur's speech, very complex, but in her essence it addresses precisely the fact that public servants do not meet with the respect that we think they deserve, and it does so by means of a range of various proposals, as the rapporteurs of the Social Democratic Party and the Left have very well explained. We must have back respect for public servants and there must be a consequence for those who do not show such respect, for example. seriously harassing a police officer who just does his job. This is the essence of this bill, which is the implementation of the agreement on a respect package that we concluded with our colleagues in the blue block earlier this year. The Liberal Alliance supports the bill and I have promised to greet our friends in the Conservative People's Party and to say that they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117195243	Thank you to Mrs Christina Egelund. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117195256	Thank you. With this bill, the government is going to introduce a number of elements from the respect package, which generally relate to people on public service, persons who do not serve, liability in riots and the financial support of municipalities for monitoring in residential areas. These are some of the elements that are included in the package. I would like to start by saying that in the alternative, we are extremely sympathetic to a number of elements of this bill. Some of the other rapporteurs have mentioned some of them, and I would also like to mention some of them. Suggestions 2.2. to tighten up the penalties for crime based on the conduct of the public service by the injured person or his immediate superior are one of the proposals we support. The part of the proposal 2.4. which deals with threats to a person in public service in their spare time is also something we support. Proposal 2.5. on harassment is also a proposal we have considered, possibly with a specification of this concept of harassment. The intentions in it are positive, although it is a little broadly formulated. The elements of threats presented by third parties are also something we are at least positive about, perhaps with some nuances. On the whole, we find it quite unacceptable that people in public service and their loved ones are at risk of being harassed, violent or threatened by their work, and I believe that everyone in this Chamber is in agreement on this. They are simply doing their job, but in addition to doing their job, it is an additional fact that the work they are doing is on behalf of the Danish people's government. That is why it deserves special attention and we also express our full support for the proposals that I have mentioned. Unfortunately, we cannot support the package in its entirety, and that is why there will also be a call from the Minister for Justice to consider dividing it up. Nor can we support the package in its entirety because we see a number of legal security problems in the package, and there are also some social problems in parts of the legislative proposal. One of the problems is the proposal to introduce stricter liability of managers or instigators of dangerous influxes in daily speech riots for the damage caused by other persons. That is one of the elements we have already discussed in this Chamber. The Danish Association of Judges calls this a proposal an innovation, and the Council of Lawyers considers the proposal to be a substantial change in the general principles of Danish law. The lawyer's council points out that it can be difficult, theoretically and practically, to deduce who is the instigator and leader of a race. They also point out that since instigators and leaders can be held responsible for the damage done by unidentified perpetrators, it will also not be possible to determine who the perpetrators concerned, for example. has considered to be the leader of the riots. The Lawyers' Council considers the scope of the provisions to be of legal concern and calls for a reconsideration of the proposal. The National Defence Attorneys Association raises similar concerns. These considerations, in the alternative, are one hundred percent in favour of that part of the bill. We also have reservations about paragraph 2.1, which deals with those in custody, and that it can be an aggravating circumstance if you are in custody and, for example, if you are in custody. violence against an official. I have mentioned this earlier in the Chamber. We also disagree with the proposal to lift the normal penalty for insults, insults and other insulting charges against public service persons from DKK 1,500 to DKK 5,000. in fine, and we are, because the proposal will hit socially wrong, as socially vulnerable in vulnerable situations can express themselves in ways that may be covered by this provision. We believe that the amount has been set too high because these people do not already have much to give, and that is why we cannot support that part of the legislative proposal either. We also disagree with the introduction of penalties for failure to serve without legal lapses, and we are, in fact, in agreement with the National Defence Attorneys' Association, which points out that these are often people who are already very poor in financial terms and that failure to do so is often assumed to be due to the fact that, for example, we are not in a position to do so. forget to check his e-boks. The lawyer's council also warns because these are often people who have poor access to financial resources, so the question is whether it is fair that we punish them extra, especially in view of their subsequent rehabilitation. The last point I would like to raise before my time expires is that we cannot really support the proposal to allow municipalities to provide subsidies for television surveillance in residential areas either. It is not because we are opposed to television surveillance, but we do not believe that it is a state or municipal task to support television surveillance in residential areas, unless there is a concrete reason for what has been established by legal law. We cannot support the bill as a whole. I have mentioned that there are several elements in what we are positive about, but as a whole we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117195803	Thank you to Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier. There are no brief comments, which is why we welcome Mrs Zenia Stampe from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117195811	I laughed a little, because the good review that Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier made is almost the same as the one I wrote down. But it is reassuring that there are others who make the cut in the same way that we have done. After all, the proposal contains a great many elements. We are positive towards some and negative towards others. I don't think I'm gonna be able to get them all through, but I can at least try to get around the most important ones. First, for those we support: we support the part of the proposal that is about tightening up the penalties for crime based on the public service or duties of the injured person. I hear others are positive about this too, and we think that is very good. We can also support the introduction of a new provision making harassment of public authorities and employees a criminal offence. We also attach importance to the restriction taking into account the provisions of the European Convention on Human Rights concerning freedom of expression and the increased tolerance of the people concerned. We can support the ability to send reminders of serving on text messages without first obtaining consent. And we can also support access to income registers for criminal services, in other words for information on social benefits. Then come the points with which we find it difficult, and for some it has already emerged from the debate how we feel about them. This is particularly true of the proposal to tighten up the criminal liability of instigators of dangerous influxes. It is unclear to us, despite the debate here, when this is a dangerous race and what it takes to be seen as the instigator and leader of this dangerous race. And here, of course, we are also aware of the answers to the questions that express concern, from among others. Lawyer's council. Nor can we support the proposal to increase the penalty for insulting speech against public servants. We share the Council of Social Affairs Ministers' concern that it will hit particularly vulnerable and unstable people unnecessarily hard. Nor can we support the imposition of fines in the event of failure to serve. We can understand from the consultation answer from the bill that the most common reason for non-compliance is that people do not get their emails checked. But a fine does not help, and if the fine is deducted from the amount that can be earned in prison, it can be demotivating in terms of participating in the various rehabilitation services offered by the criminal services. Nor can we support the part of the proposal which deals with threats via third parties and threats that are made publicly or deliberately in a wider context. Overall, therefore, we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117200056	Thank you to Mrs Zenia Stampe. There are no brief comments, so we welcome Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen from the SF Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117200112	SF can clearly support the intention with this bill, and I would like, before I go down into the substance there are a little mixed candy; there are parts that we absolutely cannot support and share, we would very much like to support the Minister for this action too. After all, our political work is both to make legislation, but also to take up debates and recognise people's fears, need for security, need for recognition. And there has clearly been a long series of cases of violence and threats and harassment of public employees at a level that is totally unacceptable. That is why I think it really was appropriate for the Minister of Justice to come up with a package which recognises both the exposure of public employees in certain cases and the right and right to protection on our part. That is why I would very much like to support the draft law, but there are some elements in what is extremely problematic. In fact, I have sat and noted diligently and can see that the Alternative and Radical and Enhedslisten and SF are touchingly agreeable. At any rate, I have not been able to take note of a disagreement, which is why I believe that the four parties would like to table an amendment to split up the legislative proposal. Without being a complete echo of the previous rapporteurs, we also have problems with some of those things, which we also feel has been supported by various consultation responses. This is true, for example. the fundamental change in case law and the fact that a founder of a race which cannot necessarily be clearly defined must be fined for something that others do, for example. To crush a window. We think that's a slip. There are also elements in what is really good, where we say that there must be severe consequences and sanctions for violence against officials in the service of police officers, against social workers. For just like Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen also said that working in public service for the benefit of the whole of society and not just for self-interest, but providing a service and service to society that we really should appreciate. But there are some problems in it. There's also this thing about threats via third parties. Today, I still haven't really been able to get any certainty as to what that means. We have, of course, a committee procedure in which we can ask a large number of clarification questions so that we can get it in writing. I still think there is a need for clarification. We also find it a little strange that you start off by saying that there should be a penalty for default from serving when we hear over and over again that a main problem for these people is that they simply cannot use their e-Boks. Why don't we start with a completely reasonable, low-practical attempt and say you're texting? It is already people who often want to be burdened with debts, and it seems a little foolish. Of course, people have to go in and serve when they have a conviction, that goes without saying, but there's no reason not to test what people who know a lot about it say, so that this low-practical solution is the way forward. Then we also have a problem with this sharpened sentence in relation to those in custody. I do not see that this makes any sense in terms of legal certainty. You stamp people who have not been convicted in any way by saying that they have a special obligation there. Then, personally, I am a bit ambivalent compared to the fact that municipalities can provide financial support for private television surveillance. I think we are already a very, very supervised society. If you take the total amount of cameras in the picture, I think we're the most monitored country in the world. You often bring Britain up as an example, but if you include both private and public surveillance, I believe that Denmark is the world's most monitored country. I do not know whether we should encourage that directly. But it's not something that's gonna separate us. Finally, I would just like to say that I think the intention is quite right and that public servants are entitled to that recognition and to the guarantee from in here that we will do what works and what is reasonable and what is not contrary to public policy. That is why we are so keen to vote in favour of it. And that is why we would also like to table an amendment along with the other parties I heard before, apologise to the Liberal Alliance for dividing it up.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117200658	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then I would like to know whether the Minister for Justice would like a comment on the first round, or whether he would like to wait until the second round, since it has been announced that at least one of the rapporteurs would like to take part in the second round. Then we go straight to round two. I would like to know which of the rapporteurs would like to speak in the second round. And I can see from the body language that Mr. Rune Lund wants to get on the platform in the second round. If anyone else wishes to speak, I would like to hear about it or see an indication of it. Here you go, sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117200739	Thank you, President. In my first speech, I explained which parts of the bill I think are good and important in protecting public employees when they go to work, because of course you have to be able to go to work without being subjected to threats, violence and harassment. In my last speaking time here, I would like to go a little further into the parts of the legislative proposal which I find problematic and to which Enhedslisten is adversely disposed. However, in relation to 2.3, which I mentioned in my first speech, I would like to say that, when we read the draft law and the hearings, we also noted that the Council of Lawyers is concerned about extending the scope to threats posed by third parties and that in this context we will be asking some questions during the committee procedure. But of the parts we are negative about, there is 2.1, which is of course about the fact that it must now be an aggravating circumstance if you commit a criminal offence while you are in custody. As I have also explained in brief during the debate, it is a principle that violates the principle of innocence until proven otherwise, that is to say, it is possible to be convicted of something, even if it subsequently appears that one was in custody on a basis that did not make one a criminal, that is to say that one was thus innocent of what was in custody. Then there is the question of 2.5. The problem is that it is very unclear what is really meant by harassment. I think it would be nice if the Minister would comment on the hearings that have come from the Østre Landsret and the Public Prosecutor, who states precisely that this is the case in a broad sense, says Østre Landsret. The Attorney General says that there is a need to further define the scope of the provision. That's 2.6. The proposal is to increase the penalties from fines or prisons for up to 6 months to fines or prisons for up to 1 year and, as several of the hearings have said, this is, as a rule, an unnecessarily high level of fines and prison sentences. The Council of Social Affairs Ministers also believes that proportionality should be ensured in the proposal, so as not to impose more severe penalties for some relatively small offences committed by vulnerable people in some vulnerable situations. And we are very much in agreement with that concern. As far as 2.9 is concerned. With regard to 2.10. The alternative and the Socialist People's Party. Finally, 2.11. This is based on the wrong premise that television surveillance is a safety-building exercise, although research shows that the planned crime can be prevented, but it will move to where there are no cameras. So overall, Enhedslisten cannot support L 73. Although there are good elements in the draft law, there are also many bad elements that we cannot support.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117201132	Thank you, sir. Rune Lund. There are no brief comments. Then we have the great honour of welcoming the Minister of Justice to the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117201142	In fact, I'm thinking of inviting Mr. Christian Juhl helped introduce me to the Left. That would actually be very nice, I think. It would bring happiness and joy. And now I've actually figured out that I really like to get on the platform for Mr. Knox. Rune Lund, because then the platform's desk is really good and well set; I haven't really thought about that before. So it's nice. In other words, I would like to thank you for the positive features we have heard here today. It has actually been interesting to hear the different views, and it is actually nice to note that there is a great deal of this which is common goods. I think that's good. Respect for our common institutions and authorities is fundamental to the rule of law, to security and to our community. And that is why from the beginning of my time as Minister of Justice it has been a wish since I was the mayor of the City of Copenhagen that it has been a top priority to ensure that there is the necessary respect for them, about the frontline staff, who every day go to work for the community's sake. I have a respect agenda, and respect package you, as this bill implements, is the first step on the road. Thank you, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen for just like to see the signal in the respect package I; for it is true that there is more waiting. This bill gives people in public service and their family members significantly better protection against criminal law, among others. violence and threats. When a person performs a job on behalf of the joint, he should not fear for his safety, either at work or at leisure. That is why the government is proposing that in future, violence and threats against police officers, prison officers and other community representatives should be punished more severely. This is especially true when it happens in leisure time. For is it not really an aggravating circumstance to be threatened or subjected to violence in your spare time? Should it not be hard-knocked if a police officer working with bikers and the gang environment is, in his spare time, cared for in the parking lot outside a supermarket and threatened by a gang member? I think the government thinks so, and I understand that a great deal here means that too. In addition, it will also be a criminal offence under the criminal code to harass people in public service. For example, it is when named police officers' addresses, portraits and other private information are published on a website or when the social worker is being pursued on his way to and from work. We also propose to increase the penalty for insulting charges against, for example. Officers, prison officers. The penalty will basically be a fine of 5,000 DKK. Another area where there is a need to increase respect is attendance for service; that has been said several times. 42.7% of the sentenced persons who have been ordered to serve, there is no trial. That is unacceptable, and that is why a number of measures have to be taken to remedy it. We also want to increase respect for public space. It's not okay to raid the city and vandalize private property. Nor is it right to call on others to do so, and we must make that quite clear. That is why we are proposing stricter liability for instigators and leaders of influxes. They must in future be able to incur liability for all damage caused during the run-up, irrespective of whether it has been possible to identify the participant or participants who have caused the actual damage. With those comments, I should like to thank you once again for your speeches. I look forward to further treatment and look forward to answering questions asked.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117201513	Thank you very much to the Minister. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the negotiations have ended. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20161117201532	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting, except that I would like to thank all the rapporteurs and the Minister for today's work in the service of the people's regime. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 18 November 2016, at 6 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
