ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u1	It is suggested by the president that a meeting meeting can last longer than the council can expect and will be considered approved if no one speaks out. [[Up front.]] It is requested a vote on the President's proposal that a meeting meeting may last longer than the council can expect and will be expected.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u2	Borist has received a letter from Björn Leví, the son of Gunnarsson, that he could not attend church meetings in the near future. Today, therefore, at the Second Council, a deputy of Pirata's district art, the son of Brynjarsson Brerdar, while the first vice keeper of the district has announced a prelude. His letter has already been investigated and agreed, but he has not taken his first place in the Council and must therefore sign the commitment to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u3	Brynjarsson Brerðursson has signed his commitment to the Constitution and is welcome to serve at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u4	That's the kind of thing to do. paritaprevir The yearling Birgir of Ármannsson, president of the Independence Party, is 50 today and I would like to represent the Generals and members of the General Assembly to congratulate him on his day and his family. [[A cheer at the Assembly Hall.]] [[For one thing, sing for him the birthday song?]] But there are many cheers for members of the council these days. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, chairman of the Central Party Parliament, became 50 years old. Saturday, and I would also like to congratulate him and his family on this milestone. [[A cheer at the Assembly Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u5	A respectable president. As soon as I begin to congratulate myself and Birgian's Ármannsson during the 100th birthday, I would like to have a feeling of relief because I have now received an ear that the management team is not going to stand by the agreement that the 8th matter of the program, the middle party's case, would be a vote in the chamber, but has been submitted and is on the program of a deliberation proposal to prevent the matter from getting a proper payment. This is not the deal. This was the agreement that this proposal would come for release at the Assembly Hall. I wish that there will be a recession at this assembly and that the chairman of the council, or possibly the president of the council, will be suspended. Chairmans sit down at meetings to understand this matter, to make sure that it receives the agreed payment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u6	V.E.G. President. It is at times as if this came out of each of the presidents of Generalis, whether he is the president of the entire council or whether he is the president of the government. In view of the fact that the administrative part is afraid to take the Central Party case on the change in index to the decommissionment, the Senate will not be properly and there will be no Senate break today if this case goes so far. So I pray to the highest. President to be the president of all of us, to postpone a meeting, to resolve the first matter so that the Senate will be as normal as possible. Otherwise it won't be.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u7	A respectable president. Here we stand to drive through a number of frustrated cases, which in some cases are neglected to admit that they are not yet ready. Nevertheless, it stands to run all of this through here, finish today. With all the faults involved in these underdeveloped matters. Yet, the government situation in this council has shown the government and the greater part of it an incredible tolerance. During the last week, one more trip was decided to trust the greater part, to yield, to agree, in effect, all requests of the greater part, more or less, in confidence that history would not repeat itself in accordance with what happened here after a convolutation of rural elections when the agreement had been made before was betrayed. Now on the final day of betrayal. It does not exist for the greater part of the arrangement. [[The president calls.]] Then, on the side of the government, I assume there is no agreement.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u8	Mr. President. It's really amazing to hear that language coming from there. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð, Gunnlaugsson, to speak of fraud. What was discussed between the presidents was that there would be one issue for each body of Congress to be decommissioned in the hall. It was also clear that it might also be proposed, as was the case in the case of Porta's proposal for civilian pay, in which this case was referred to by the government. Here's a court order. This is not a committee or not a case that is being put to sleep; it is actually a judicial hearing. It is a complete payment. It's not working out. People allow themselves to come up here and talk about fraud when this is what has been discussed. And then I wish. Happy birthday to 50 male senators.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u9	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The President warms my words to me and my family earlier. I don't know what to say. The members of the Central Party, I would like to say, I strongly agree with the description at its height. However, it was clear that there could be a number of ways in which the government groups could discuss matters at the council. A committee would have to be settled, and one way or another they would be discussed and provided. As we have considered, this has occurred in some cases by approval of a change in form and in other cases, the releases to the government have been adopted by special references to any particular subject. In this case, the proposal for a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee is being made that the matter of the Central Party has the afterlife to be covered by personnel or government committees so that the case does not die as it would if it was charged. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u10	A respectable president. I wish. paritaprevir Happy birthday is the Birgir of an Ármannsson, who, at the same time, expressed a surprising memory of his fine speech just before. [[For example, it's not very nice on your birthday.]] No, he gets something else in return. I'll give him a hug later. Of course, it is impossible to conclude that all cases of the government opposition that came to the treatment will be restored to the government side of the group that spoke to them except the issues of the Middle Party. The middle party's case is to be completely incompatible with the authorities. The Central Party case is to be held here by the government's prescription without any consultation with the Central Party, if it is the agreement that is considered justified in doing this in any way other than agreed. I'm afraid it's all a matter of agreement and I'm afraid that the day might turn any faster than it was planned. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u11	A respectable president. Here are quite large words spoken by a member of the Middle Party, perhaps in harmony with what they have practiced during the last days. The meetings found that the presidents wanted a matter like everyone else, normal, which was, in fact, a completely different matter. This case was neglected, had not been tore up a committee, although it had been there, and had never been adopted by members of the Middle Party. Nevertheless, we met the Central Party and said that it was normal for him to get his part on the program. This will then be handled normally and we will respond in a way that we would like to do and consider appropriate for this matter, for another matter had been approved earlier at the council on a very similar subject if not exactly the same subject. This is a natural process, and it is only natural to point this matter into that direction. However, in the case of the matter at the council, no agreement was discussed, not anything. It's strangely, let's say, here is a time and place where you can come up again and again and talk about a violation of an agreement that has never existed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u12	Mr. President. First, I'd like to ask members of Congress not to speak down to the President of the Generals and say he's not the president of all people. It is not his to command members of the council and to provide for them. That's what we members of the committee do. It is specifically requested that the president interfere with the handling of the committee. That's not what we're supposed to do. The case was not flimsied in any way, that people don't like the trial, when it was taken over on a financial and business committee. This was first done at a meeting with council members and presidents. I'm also going to remind you that the middle party changed horses in the middle. He had a case ready for release, i.e. The local hospital he decided would know that it would be decided to change and set up this matter. Also, it was not mentioned that some specific arrangements were needed, and the middle class could not decide whether or not a certain case should be handled in any particular way, whether it is at the end of the council or when it is at the end of the season. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. This case, like any other case at the council, has been given an excellent procedure.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u13	A respectable president. The largest part of the Economic and Business Committee was prepared by the Committee's Committee with a contraband proposal, a rationalist, Friday, June 8. Today is June 12th. It took the middle party four days to storm here at the Hall of Congress on the day we all thought it was the final day of the assembly. If the conclusion is that the Party of the Central Party is that it is in favor of holding the council as a hostage, then it must be. I am in the material discussion, but I would now have thought that the members of the Central Party and the traveling overseer himself, well. paritaprevir Sæmundsson, would be rather pleased and content with the release that the bill is not being rejected. Rather, it refers to further work in a normal direction in a group to be set in line with the resolution of the General Assembly adopted here by the hall. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Lonely. Among other things, with the votes of the Middle Class, in part, at least. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u14	A respectable president. I'm sitting, like, cot. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, a financial and business committee that discussed the matter at the end of the season. Contrary to what it's like. paritaprevir Sigmundur, the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, claimed earlier, that some other matters were little discussion and ill prepared, this matter is relatively little discussed and ill prepared to claim the order of the Middle Party. Then, rather than throwing the case out of the trash, it is not surprising that it will be put in a natural direction, where it will receive some consideration and hopefully some smell.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u15	A respectable president. It is quite remarkable to listen to the bullshit, a respectable president who comes from the highest level. The secretary of transportation and unit government in this room, and the very lies that come out of his mouth. [[The president calls.]] But I've heard them before. It's not the first time that that fine man works in such a way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u16	Oh, Gunnar Bragi, be respectful of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u17	[[Up front.]] So I don't talk about it like that. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, who clung to the side hall, is babble about the Middle Party changing the subject. We agreed that a certain matter would be concluded when a convention would meet after a recess. But it's perfectly clear, and fine to the top. The minister and chairman of the parish Party knows, that he does not direct any matter that the Central Party chooses to complete at the end of the council. Then it's clear that there was one thing we wanted to do at the end of the council, and that was it. There was no other matter first. There will be no request that any other matter be completed. [[To the point: This is wrong.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u18	That's wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u19	Not one. [[Up front.]] No. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u20	The president asks for silence in the hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u21	Hv. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir: don't stay forward and lie, and be dishonest. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u22	At the meeting, the president asks for a measure of normal calm. The speech session is over, and the president is asking for it. Senators guarding their word.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u23	Mr. President. I'd like to direct them to the highest recommendations. President, and the highest, too. Prime Minister to interrupt a meeting so that council presidents and presidents can sit down and review the matter. I understood it all the time, so we first prayed that two cases would be taken care of, and then they were reduced to one side of the government stand, preordaining that things would be settled in the council hall. It was very clear that that that matter... [[The point is, do you want to...?]] V.E.G. President. Can I have a break from the restless senators left in the side room?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u24	The speakers are to be given a good sound, yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u25	Yeah. Thank you. That's why I'd like to direct it to the highest level. Since I understood all of this all the time, Prime Minister and President should be granted a hearing in the Senate Hall, not from a deliberation proposal, unless they were classified as acceptable, as Pirantar agreed and accepted. Our national decision to restore the project was originally to be directed to the government. We said, "No, we want a stand. " We're not asking for approval. We'll take the whole rejection, but we want the Senate's stand. [[The president calls.]] And that's what the Central Party is asking. Let's settle this down quietly before the Senate gets all over the place and gets excited. I strongly recommend that you give me the highest order. The President will call off the meeting the first. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u26	The president respects the right of the senators to wish to discuss his meeting regime.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u27	A respectable president. I'd kind of like to pick up the wire where it went. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of K. Gunnarsdóttir's daughter let him go. That's right, with the presidents sitting and making a deal for the so-called end of the council and all the horse shops that I'm doing for the first time in my life. I don't know if you're suggesting that you're so slow or what it's really like, but there's nothing wrong with what's been discussed. It was a deal. This meant that instead of receiving two issues that all the minority members of a government stand for, we accept one matter. The middle tribe never accepted anything called deduction. Also, he was not asking for the matter to be agreed here. He was only asking for a vote, and of course he would accept rejection if the outcome was to come. But I'm telling you, this is some kind of a misunderstanding. At least I feel that I have reason to listen to those in these committees and at these negotiations. It was not only members of the council but also presidents of the political parties.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u28	A respectable president. There's nothing being betrayed here. I was sitting at a contract meeting. The matter was discussed by each body member. The Central Party case wasn't ready. It was included in a committee and received normal treatment and processing there. There, representatives of the Central Party had full opportunity to make comments and suggestions. This was the conclusion of the committee. We're in full assembly here. If they're going to adjust to the rules for that, I'd like them to fall away. Maybe we should have a course in general meeting parks and just tie them down, because here we are going to follow them. I can't agree with the words directed to the President in some trivial language. I'm asking you to drop it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u29	A respectable president. First, I'd like to say something about the highest word. A minister of transportation, Sigurður Ingi son of Jóhannsson, that the abuse of the case is now a bigger problem for the government class than the ruling classes at the end of these councils. But because I know what to do. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason has not been deliberately mistaken: The reason why this matter of the Central Party wasn't on the program for a meeting yesterday was that no committee opinion was given out. The nominee didn't come to the council yesterday. Just to be said. He said we had this in front of us for four days. I agree with what you're saying. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of K. Gunnarsdóttir's daughter. I think it would be a song that the president made a brief stand-off to see if any conclusion cannot be reached and settled on this matter, since it is unacceptable that one government body will be subject to the complete payment of his case, while other government groups will be granted their terms in order to agree. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That, of course, is what we have to do with the speech of the Middle Class.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u30	A respectable president. Like what? The procurator of the Independence Party, Birgir the Year's Ármannsson, was mentioned earlier on the basis of the matter being discussed. But what is a deportation proposal? A paradox suggests that cases are not decommissioned, not supplied, so that such a proposal is made, and that the matter is not granted in a vote will involve a betrayal of the agreement made. But why would the government not trust in a vote on this matter? I think it is obvious, a respectable president, that in particular the senators of the Agency do not want to be aware that one more trip was to betray one of their main election promises, as all of the main elections have already been betrayed. Therefore, people want to avoid having to take sides, having to vote on a matter that was highly different, and counting one of their larger cases, now have the opportunity to agree, but do not trust to vote. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u31	V.E.G. President. The issues discussed were addressed to the Economic and Business Committee early in March. Today is June 12th. Now I don't sit as a top dog. The Economic and Business Committee, but if this case is so decommissioned, what was a financial and business committee doing with it all the time? The final comments on the subject were made early in April. What was the problem? Then, when we are invited - I give the offer - that the matter is taken out on small notice, we accepted it, of course. But there's one thing I need to know. The head of the advance party earlier said that the case was granted. Now I ask, "Where does the highest get?" A travel minister has the authority to determine which language treatments are appropriate for individual Congress? I'm asking because I thought we were only under Congress... and not feeling anxious or afraid of any individual minister... to a case that would appear here and treat them in an uncomfortable way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u32	Mr. President. I think it's becoming clear that people in general don't agree on what was said here. Of course, that is not the first time in human history that people may interpret things differently. The members of eight groups sit together and think that they have come to a conclusion, but then, in different ways, they are interpreted in different ways. This is building a tension that is far beyond what needs to be because we could, these same people, go into the side room and discuss the results. I suggest the president pause at the meeting and give us a chance to sit down and try at least finding a common understanding of this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u33	The President intends to complete the proverbial file available for President's conference board.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u34	Mr. President. I cannot help but wonder that it is held here that a matter will be planned in this council hall and taken care of by pressing on some button is not considered a complete payment in a case. That's it, that's exactly what we're doing here is a complete payment on a case. However, neither the Central Party nor any other group, if it is to be divided, can determine how other members, whether members of the council or in this hall, decide to arrange their language, cannot decide how we feel it best to land a case or vote. I don't know what this is all about, I have to say. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u35	A respectable president. I agree with what. Senators who have spoken before me. This isn't the first time I don't understand Central Party, and I'm sure it's not the last one. I was in the middle of a talk. Last week, a council leader of the Central Party, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson of Sveined me for being surprised by the intervention of the Central Party at noonday. The employment committee should suggest in the hunting fee, for I thought that this was not the case that had been agreed on. That's when it went. A member of the United States Parliament, with the Arctic of the unwork of the local council, aims to restrict the right of the free rights of the Central Party to a professional committee. I listened babblely to and learned. Now I'm listening to the same thing. A senator uses the same arctic spheres in which he wants to restrict the right of the free will of other senators but his own party.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u36	That wasn't true.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u37	How ridiculous is that? You're talking in here shamelessly.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u38	Always the same...
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u39	This is absolutely incredible.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u40	Mr. President. This matter of growth and insurance is of vital importance to the public. It's hard to believe that the government is trying everything it can to get this out of the Senate Hall, not to be discussed here at the council. Why? Why would that be? [[Up front.]] Is it the independent party's security machine that is completely in place? [[The president calls.]] To prevent the matter from being discussed here? [[What kind of machine...?]] Then the advance party bends itself and the left green under this power of interest, making sure we don't talk about it here. [[Up front.]] The head of the advance party said, "I saw Facebook transfer after him...
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u41	President's asking for silence.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u42	that he expressed his joy in this matter. He's a follower, the advance team is watching this, they're turning to the Independence Party that doesn't want to see this, who doesn't want the public's vote in Iceland. [[Take it up in: The only category that's righted...]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u43	Mr. President. It will late be said that there is a good chance of settling matters in a way that the management sector is planning and that is in total conflict with the authorities. I agree with what. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of K. Gunnarsdóttir and others who have been asked to stop this meeting so that presidents, and members of Congress officials, can advise and find a successful solution for this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u44	V.E.G. President. I challenge the president to recess the meeting and call for a meeting of the officers. To say that we in the Central Party have changed our horses in the middle of it is completely ignorant. There were two subjects that we took into consideration, and then they said that one case would come for release. We chose to take this case. You can't say that we've changed our horses in the middle of it. I find it very strange that this case should not be covered by votes. I agree with other members of Congress, perhaps fearing that the people will see the minds of members of the council. There are 100,000 homes in the country, the interest of people, the public. These insurance promises are a ghost resting over the nation for years. We in the Middle East have had the courage to go on the road to silence that ghost.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u45	A respectable president. I have to say exactly as it is, this is a bit of an ornamental situation that has come up because when you look at the underlying issues, there is not, apparently, a great basis for conflict. The Congress has already taken a unanimous stand out of a committee, made up of the council concluded that this matter, precisely the matter being disputed, should be taken up to the Management Board for further consideration, that the minister should appoint a committee and have the prosecuting and failure of removing the staff from the index. Then comes a bill that says it should be done by law immediately. The committee concluded that this is the physical issue that has already been settled by the council a few days ago and therefore points it into the direction that the Parliament itself prepared for that matter a few days ago. [[The point is, this is not the case.]] [[The point is, this is not the case.]] That this is a subject of controversy as to why the matter cannot be considered is surprising. The case will be treated by the Committee. [[The president calls.]] There are three full tours at the council and then a vote on the deliberation proposal. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] If she should be dropped, she'll have a vote on the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u46	Mr. President. I think correction is now necessary. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason. So all in the Economic and Business Committee were sent by e - mail to the Committee to the end of the rest of the section. On June 16,57, of last year, 93 hours ago, the Central Party met with knowledge that a greater proportion of the Economic and Business Committee were to be settled or suggested that the matter be settled in this way, received this material treatment, end up with enormous interests. It's a little strange, huh? paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson, to come up and talk about the enormous interest in the public, and then he wants to get the case in favor of the case and that it will be taken down as he is calling for - he's trying to remember us to settle the matter rather than refer it to a material working group, thus ensuring public interest. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's what accounts for the payment of more part of the Economic and Business Committee. It doesn't matter how often the dog is. þm. It's Þorsteinn's tombstone or somebody else beat his head against the stone. [[The president calls.]] These are facts.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u47	The President asks senators to watch their deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u48	Mr. President. This matter was briefly discussed at the meeting of the council classes earlier. We didn't have enough time to talk about it, and I just want to come up here to reiterate that I wish there would be a better discussion outside this council meeting. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u49	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason did well to review the handling of the case from the committee. Hv. The members of the Central Party allow themselves to talk about being like people around here who are afraid to talk about it. I was having this conversation yesterday, okay? paritaprevir Þórarinsson. There many middle - class members, more members of one category than in any other discussion yesterday. And it was just fine, it was interesting to see what's the reason of the Central Party for this case, which is a shock to many of its former members in the forward category. Did the Central Party slide through that discussion, or did he not realize that we were also discussing a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee last night? Didn't the Central Party notice? Did he get it before? I think all of us, wherever we stand, whether in a government or in a government position, need to ask ourselves: " Are we going to participate in this media of the Central Party, which is mainly based almost exclusively on a cart to his former party in the leading party?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u50	Mr. President. This discussion has taken on forms that are less interesting. I'd like to make one of them a subject here because there have been some members of the council who hear me most of all about the government talking about the President of the Generals and others being called in part on lawsuits, speech classes, and so on. I find it quite interesting because to me, this is a negotiation. And that's right, we've been there for the past few weeks, and now here's one category of anti-reversation that has been broken. And how will he react? Yes, by believing that they no longer apply the agreement, and that is what these council members have been calling for, that no one is bound, no one is involved in anything. This is getting really fucked up, you fucking round-up. I encourage the President of the Generals to stop this meeting, interrupt and discuss these matters again. If this is about to become a issue of pride, or what it is, people are mistaken because we're in trouble with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u51	Mr. President. I think that some who have expressed themselves here may have been able to recall it from half an hour ago, since the idea was wondered at the scene of the council members whether to keep a vote on this particular matter, but I understood the middle party's spokesmen in such a way that it was either a matter of firmly agreeing to their demands or it should just have a course and taking a vote. I understood a discussion that took place at the scene of the council groups in this way. That may be a misunderstanding, but I remember myself mentioning whether this might be a problem. I don't know exactly why we should go to a meeting to discuss a case if there is a clear requirement on one side that is not compromised. I don't know, I don't feel it, so then there's a lot of ground to discuss things differently. V.E.G. President. [[The president calls.]] Finally, I wanted to ask those who are involved in this discussion to look after their words. Many heavy words have fallen upon individual senators, presidents, and ministers, and I think that humans should be calm only, even if they may experience it so that they are making up some old blame. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u52	V.E.G. President. I just want to reiterate my desire that the president interrupt the meeting and call to meet with the officers. I listened to talks yesterday, where the speakers spoke. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otttirsson Proppé said that he did not make sense of this case and what we're saying in the middle of the group. He was at the same hayhorn earlier. He didn't come up or down in us. I'm not going to try to explain it any more to him, he'll just have to deal with himself. But this wasn't the deal today. The arrangement was to resolve the matter rather than to dismiss it, so that it is repeated.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u53	Now it says that there aren't more, at least not for now, on the rosary to discuss the President's conference board, but a large group of members of Congress have fully used their rights in this round. The president is now planning to postpone this meeting for 20 minutes and to report to the council members for a meeting with him. If we don't get the result of a new meeting after 20 minutes according to the program and the seminary.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u54	A respectable president. This case has been in the system for a long time, although it has not been there for as long as plans to make changes in the arrangement insurance. I think it's a reason to mention specifically that I find the transition to the Economic and Business Committee a great improvement in this case. With the permission of a president, I'm going to cut to the Committee on the Economic and Business Committee, which says: It's the same thing as 7th par. The bill is added to the services providers of pseudo-final and digital wallets by the list of 2 mg. Section 5. legal on cost of official financial control, No. 99/1999, but those listed should pay 700,000 bucks. [ Picture Credit Line on page 2] The committee realized that this was probably too much in many cases, since it was largely not for that price. But there is an improvement with the proposed adjustment made by the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u55	Mr. President. It may be right to make a decision that the proposed changes were agreed at the end of 2rd. These adjustments were very good, and I thanked them at the time. I also thank the Economic and Business Committee for the leading opinion that dealt with some of the points of criticism that I and Pirantar had against this matter, but it didn't take on all of them. There are still some out-of-date problems about e.g. The term "irraditic wallet" or "digitally" wallet, which is not still defined in the bill. We fear that this will lead to future problems. That's a vague point. It's a new technology that's developing very fast. As a result, we do not trust to support this matter for a time, but it is important that we accept these points regarding money laundering, so we are obviously very mixed in this matter. We want to avoid money laundering, but we do not want it to be done in a way that sets a bad example for this new technology. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u56	A respectable president. Like many recent cases and part of trying to complete the council, this is one of the issues that have been a little focused on fixing or improving. But there are certainly things that could have been more clearly explained, such as whisk. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy came in. It's like another council case that we're on for an Iceland lab where the laws on the phenomenon we're going to turn the Agency into. Still, we are going to do so. I suppose we're going to agree to a matter of Congress where certain things have not been defined, so it's called, as it were. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy pointed out, to define what a digital wallet is, as mentioned here so fine. A respectable president. I suppose the case will be closed, but it may have to be picked up again in the fall to eliminate the question, as we have just noted.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u57	A respectable president. There's a case here about electric cigarettes and electric refills. It has been interesting to observe the case at the council, where dose levels have been greatly applied. I can see that people have put their arms around it all, the electricity users, to the joy of it. Although I suppose to support this matter, I wondered, " Is it normal to separate from this equipment at restaurants, whether it should fall under the same tobacco habit? ' that it is forbidden. Still, the situation has improved greatly. I think there's a reason to thank those who contributed to the situation that we might be able to support what we're afraid to do here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u58	A respectable president. This was a very controversial case, one at a time in uncertainty. For example, whether there is an increase in access to so - called electric cigarettes is primarily to get smokers who smoke traditional cigarettes to quit, or whether they can also cause people who don't smoke over their head exams. As I mentioned, much work has been done in this case. Various changes were made with the aim of responding to the comments that have been made. It's a very exemplary, respectable president, that men do things this way, and you can see more, in other matters that we're discussing at the council today, in effect, all running around to see if they've tried to land or even look for opportunities to blow things up. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u59	Mr. President. It's a bit controversial, and it's been a few laps, I know, on a committee where it was a payment. In itself, we still lack research to see if electrical cigarettes may encourage other smokers. It has been claimed that they are greatly diminished, but we lack experience to determine if in some cases they can promote tobacco smoking. I've been a little touchy about this case, and I spent a long time in front of it. It has certainly improved slightly in the case of a committee, so I don't expect to be a barrier to it being taken care of here today. Still, I'm quite a touchy about the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u60	A respectable president. I have to disagree with those who have come before. I've received no more e - mails on any language than this, and they were all the same opinion that sent me e - mail on the case, but not the opinion of the ultimate proposal. Well, maybe that's what I'm saying in a little cart. There are things that were better handled, both in the committee and in the middle of conversation. Among other things, it had the highest power. The President of the General Pledge on the matter of allowing the so - called wave at restaurants. Wise explanation why. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son was pretty good to me, that people were entrusted with bringing dangerous beasts to restaurants, but could not bring a mixture of water and odors. To say that, I expect to support the whole case and to hope that it will be successful.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u61	Mr. President. That's pretty good. It's sort of a very good thing into this room today, because with the conclusion that we here vote for a right afterwards, it can be shown and proved that a completely different viewpoint is coming to land. On the committee, we discussed the need to help people stop smoking. This is part of it. On the other hand, the problem was how we prevent children from starting smoking by fishing. I recommend that people take this case and remember how we managed to land it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u62	A respectable president. I want to make the final payment of this case to take this opportunity and thank you. The welfare committee for combining differing viewpoints, as we have seen here. I believe in this case the council showed what is involved in complex solutions. Thank you so much. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson for putting his mind on the history of the case and the development of complex solutions. My assessment is that these legislation are very beneficial and that they will achieve the goals that we first saw appeared to be incompatible. Here they're all together to smell solidarity, I hope.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u63	A respectable president. One more thing I wanted to say about the danger, or what you need to think in particular, while we accept the likely bill afterwards. One is the health questions I mentioned earlier, whether these are likely to help people stop smoking or possibly to get used to nicotine. I'm not going to talk about it anymore, but I'm going to point out that there's another danger that is that some of these devices have exploded, so that they've been harmful, cracked, or even used. Therefore, a respectable president needs to be careful that the equipment on the market here meets the security requirements in this regard. We do not want people to get seriously damaged by the use of these devices. Most people are sure to be safe, and nothing is out on them. However, there is a need to make sure that devices that have proved dangerous elsewhere, have exploded, are not in sales in Iceland, and are thus careful to ensure that consumer defenses in this case. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u64	A respectable president. In conclusion the opinion of those who were in a smaller part of a welfare committee, euphemism. The members of Halldóra Mogensen, Anna Kolbrún of the Year's Árnadóttir, and Guðmundur of Ingi, son of Kristinsson, say, on permission of presidents: U.S.A., smoking kills hundreds of people every year. It has been shown conclusively that electric cigarettes can be of great benefit to those who have to stop smoking. I think most of us can agree on this. This is one of the important factors to better define the environment in which these devices are sold and used. Of course, we are concerned that increased use or availability of these devices may possibly have some negative effect on children or adolescents, but I think with this matter it's an attempt to put your arms around them as well. Therefore, I think that the proposed changes have been made to a great extent.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u65	A respectable president. Since the last two cases had not yet been discussed, I wanted to come up here and declare disappointment with the position in which there seems to be no desire for it in the administration groups that I am at the council for which they agreed on, i.e. how the discussions and handling of the cases would be done in order to get closer to the fact that the growth and insurance bill would be done in a reasonable way with the Central Party. Is the Central Party there with the only government side of the movement that the challenge is to be dealt with in any way with the group of carriers. I reiterate that I declare a lot of disappointment with the situation that exists. No doubt that will mark the day ahead.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u66	A respectable president. It is clear that the meeting of the council groups in the past failed to be successful, of course. Then there is the disagreement that exists regarding how the Middle Party's speech ends. A few meetings were held here to discuss how to settle these matters. It is clear that on the side of the government body, they were to be handed over at the Hall of Congress or in agreement with the classes, but not to dismiss them and to the south solely according to the interests of the government. Of course, what will be considered in a vote will have to be made up of each individual. There is no commitment, and no one calls for commitment to the Central Party case, not at all, but simply for the matter to be granted, as agreed. I can't help it if some political leaders don't recognize what is agreed on. [[The president calls.]] It's simply their problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u67	V.E.G. President. It appears that the first Council of the Government of Katrín's daughter, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, will end in the next few days. It's a bit odd to sit in this situation under the government established to promote the Council. In the eight months past, the government has repeatedly demonstrated how little is behind its claim to promote the Council. This clause should, in fact, be wiped out by the cover of the government covenant. But of course, I understand that men don't want to make him less demeaning than he is, enough is enough. But I express my frustration over the evolution of this day, and I express my frustration over how this government is constantly behind its word to promote the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u68	Mr. President. I want to stress that I believe in the highest. To end this case, the president. In fact, we had assumed that after the happy outcome of the last days, the council could be completed both in agreement and with a measure of dignity, perhaps late tonight, but it seems to me that while the matter is undisputed, we will have little aim. I think the council will continue for the next few days. I'll redirect it, as I've done before, firmly to the highest. President trying to communicate the matter. For my lot and my associates in Correction, it's no big deal for us to take sides in this matter. It is not a commitment to agree with this, but it is normal to meet the normal requirement of the Central Party to get an accounting on the case, i.e. the opinion of the council and members of Congress on the matter as such. I don't fear it, I can tell you what my opinion is, but I feel that the Central Party should get away with it with dignity. [[The president calls.]] There's no need to treat Central Party like a top. By means of this method, a government does.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u69	A respectable president. Just to be stated from a pentula, I participated in a detailed section of their meetings where these topics were discussed. It is quite clear that we, as members of the Central Party and other representatives of the negotiations that came to them on behalf of the Central Party, were not negotiating that the case would be dismissed, as is now a project of government classes. Of course, looking to the Senate as being considered to be a demilitarized by the government groups, it is dangerous to look for the consequences of dismissing the matter. That's not what was negotiated. That's not what they said. In view of the differences in view of the agreement made before a conference, it could be said that the anti - anti - political parties should have required that everything in the matter be written. But you hoped we weren't there. The situation is reversed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u70	A respectable president. I think there's something important to learn from this situation here. I agree with that. paritaprevir Ólason's son Bergeth said that you hoped to deliver the big words that fell on the part of the prime minister and others in the government that everything was going to be better and would follow, but there isn't. Of course, it is important that we bear in mind the design of some form at the council to make an agreement. There is no way that a person can walk smirk about the hall and betray what is agreed on. Of course, that is not an option for humans. Of course, the bitterness of many people these days is very intense, especially at the end of the district election. It is only natural to have trouble controlling yourself here. But I think that it is clear that we are going to be in some way that we do things differently than the rest of this council hall, though there is some bitterness of mind for the head of the forward party.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u71	A respectable president. There are cases where people have agreed on a decision at the end of the council how to vote for a matter. Let me give you an example. Hv. A former senator, Kristján L. Möller, had a concierge proposal to build a new Continental Hospital on Ring Road. Not all men agreed to it, so there was compromise. Instead of a proposal for a new land hospital at Ring Road, everyone agreed to agree to a proposal that the hospital would meet the hospital and he would adapt to the great needs then being maintained at the hospital. However, this is not a request for consenting to the proposal. This is not a requirement for merged with this proposal. It is only asked that a person be allowed to express his or her attitude in a vote, say yes or no, or sit by. A respectable president. Why is it not possible to allow members of Congress to state their position on this proposal? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u72	Mr. President. This proposal is important to the public, as I mentioned earlier. It is also important for the public to have a certain respect for this institution. Sadly, what we have seen is not that way. I'd like to encourage the highest. Prime Minister to use it in cooperation with the highest level. President making a deal with us in the Central Party on this matter. It's for everyone's benefit. I just don't understand this fear of the government groups coming in here. Just like what? Gunnlaugsson It is not to be asked to accept this proposal but simply to get her payment here. There must be some reason why people don't want the case in here. I urge you on the government, the government party, to revise your thoughts on these matters simply to improve the respect of this excellent institution.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u73	V.E.G. President. It's a declared scheme for the present time. Prime Minister to increase political trust It has been and is still kept for the greatest virtue that exists if men are men of their word. Sadly, in the national part of the world today, humans are not saying what they are saying. They don't make deals. They do not accept contracts that are handmade. It hurts. It makes bad promises into the rest of the election season because it is now clear that all contact with the government sector will now be written and witnessed. It is very evil, and it does not add to confidence. I know the highest. A president of being a gentleman. Therefore, I once again beg him to use his influence in order to affect the administrative part and to get him to negotiate even if they are not written. I want to ask him for it so that we can continue our Senate work and finish it in common peace.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u74	Mr. President. At a meeting earlier in the President's conference room, this was described as minor. It's kind of smaller than little, under Generalis's respect that we're stuck in this. I allow me to express my full confidence in the highest power. The president of this magazine, which means he will take this matter into a natural and reasonable course so that it will feel that a conclusion is within reach for all.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u75	V.E.G. President. It has moved 50 billion from the homes in one year and about 118 billion in five years. It must be worth the effort to start doing something about reducing that cost. I thought of something already. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason spoke of a written agreement that I have had many trades over the years. And I don't think it's as good for my business feeling as when you can trust a deal that's unsigned. That's why I find it less difficult to have to make a written agreement so that things can be maintained.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u76	A respectable president. I don't understand what's going on in the Senate room right now. There's a problem. The members of the Central Party, in fact, contribute it to the highest level. The General's president is making a change in the money we've made. The Economic and Business Committee? [[Foreground on: Yes.]] Is that really what they're suggesting? The matter was settled from the committee with the full knowledge of those who were attending the meeting for a release on the committee. And it is on the shoulders of members of the Parliament who were on that committee meeting how the release was handled. This issue was reviewed by the committee, and it was settled by these committees. The case has been discussed, received an excellent talk yesterday, but now it seems that there is. In some way, members of the Parliament want to direct a president to change the arrangement that took place on a committee. That's fucking quiet, huh? Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u77	A respectable president. I think the highest. The President must agree with me that this speech was odd earlier. Like senators, and maybe the highest. A president, known as one of the parties, between the administrations, and the opposition to the end of the council, is very likely to be made. This, of course, would include making certain arrangements in different locations, in different committees, here in the hall, and so on, all in accordance with the results of the agreement. Pointing to some position on a committee does not change the agreement and included that cases would be resolved, this case would be resolved, i.e. The thing that we're talking about the most here. A paradox suggests that matters are not to be concluded and, therefore, a betrayal of the agreement made.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u78	Mr. President. Here is a vote that will improve the benefit of a number of people when the prime bill is commissioned to submit no later than the law of November 1. All groups at the General Assembly are united behind the case that the people class adopted when a council met in December. Very clear receipts of missions from all categories during a discussion on the synonym send a clear message about the party's will in this court of justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u79	Mr. President. I'm celebrating this bill and the solidarity of it. Remuneration in Pension is paid to cover tender expenses and is not to be taxable. It is important to remember that pensions are not taxable. They do not come from deduction or impairment in calculating the financial support of rural communities, housing benefits, special housing support, child support, interest reforms and down payments on real estate costs. The central category supports this bill and its aims. It makes up for the worst in the pensioners, and it serves as a credit to the General.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u80	Mr. President. The thing about which we vote is good. The powder is coming from the members of Stockholm City, and they have to thank you for it. It is a matter of justice that has long been in the discussion, but it is now brought up by members of each body of Congress, taking the people of Stockholm and rejoicing that a body of Congress can unite on the clear street of this fine affair.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u81	A respectable president. Like what? paritaprevir Ólafur the Ísleifsson, this is primarily a matter of justice, a fair case, and, in fact, a long time for such improvements. There is reason to wish. paritaprevir The Guðguundur of Ingi Kristinsson and other representatives of the proposal, and of course all members, congratulates that the matter is running out in this way. I think it's safe to say, neglected for far too long, a group who had received clear promises from the government that his object would be right when economic conditions allowed, but who have been waiting for far too much. Here is a step toward meeting that group. I hope that's a sign of what's to come.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u82	A respectable president. There's quite a big deal here on the road we're finishing up in a pretty good way. As a result, I hold representatives of all classes on the motion. It is a great deal of justice for which the members of Stockholm have been taking the lead. I think most categories of people can be found who completely agree with that and who would have wanted to do it. Well, I hope we'll see a flying trip in the later vote and hopefully we'll all be on the case at the end of the day. I want to, like many others, congratulate the people on getting things done. How exemplary it is to have presented a matter that is so important, so important, and so important to be delivered!
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u83	A respectable president. I'm very proud of this case. I am very grateful for this world of Congress, for all of you who have taken us this successful step toward helping 5,600 Icelanders, who are very productive. It is a matter of righteousness, and we have proved that we can join in wherever we stand. I want to believe that this is only the first step on a nice and beautiful journey where we've come to show and prove to our people that we're here for it. I'm just saying, congratulations, everyone. I think you guys are great.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u84	Mr. President. First, I want to congratulate the people and their members on this matter, that they have come all this way. I give particular pleasure to the fact that a body of Congress has come together to settle the matter through the council. As noted in many discourses, the matter affects very many people who are walking and we need to raise our hands. So I hope that the treatment of the situation will continue as good as it is now and that nothing will delay it, so when we get together here in the fall, we will have a bill that we can accept so that it will have a happy end. Most of the price, though, is the agreement that can be made if you want to.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u85	Mr. President. First, I want to congratulate the people in their hearts. I'd also like to congratulate the people that the management members are worth the hearing in the chamber. I would like to point out that a group of people had a different welfare committee that, unfortunately, did not get to go out of there and back in the Assembly Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u86	Mr. President. I want to be happy with the people's way of saying good things to them. I would also like to express my satisfaction with a job. Senators of the Economic and Business Committee, where the original bill was worked and reviewed. It turned out that there were some side effects that would have occurred if we had agreed on the bill just as it was. All the members of the committee tried to find a solution and continue to do so. To the highest. A financial and economic minister could feel the burden and support of the case was decided that all classes would propose a proposal for Congress. We know what happens to a minister who does not have the support of the council, so he has to follow this agreed proposal that I am very pleased with.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u87	Mr. President. I'd like to congratulate the people with their way of life. It is a pleasure to get this matter done, end up with a great deal of justice, and example of how we put our priorities in high regard to the rights of those who may have some form of disability, or have a measure of pain. Finding ways to meet those groups is often hard to reach. It has mattered to us, and we have noticed that it is very important that we put the people in first place to face those who have attended the rest of the system so far. For this, we are grateful, for this matter is supported, and so are we. A senator and the head of a welfare committee, Halldóra Mogensen, on the subject. Once again, congratulations on the people's party.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u88	A respectable president. Thank you, thank you. Thank you very much for the world of Congress. Of course, this is a matter of justice for those who suffer such losses and the taxation of these strong ones, which are actually an exorbitant cost to these people. But there are a few steps left. First of all, we will accept the conclusion that is in existence here, which I hope, in view of its transporters, will receive extensive support. Then a minister will submit a spoken bill as discussed in the resolution, which will receive his treatment and approval. Until we're excited. I hope this will be the Christmas gift of the Gangs to these parties.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u89	A respectable president. I think we can agree with the last speaker that the vote we will follow will hopefully be the beginning of a merry Christmas for many, such as well. A senator referred to earlier. It's good and satisfying to be able to stand here and talk about a situation that was handled in a more comfortable way; landing was done on how to handle it. There may be more of this, and it is clear that in other matters the same is not true in this council hall, this is likely because someone simply lacks the ability, will, and courage to resolve the remaining issues. But we'll see what sets you up, Mr. Honorable President. This is a good thing. Of course, we came to support it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u90	Mr. President. There is a few days difference between being a member of the General Assembly, even between the members of the program, how much fun it is. But it seems to me that this case that we're about to vote on is one of the things that makes you happy and that makes you believe that it's really possible to get along with someone at the council. It also gives you hope that there can be a solid basis for the program and handling of matters at the council and that there can be a putting aside of disagreements that sometimes involve not the content of the matter or the procedure itself. I am here to rejoice in the release of this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u91	A respectable president. I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to arise and congratulate members of Floki's members on their decision, though, of course, the matter is not set to the finish and in particular. paritaprevir The Guðmundur of Ingi Kristinsson, who is not in the hall right now. This, of course, is the steep case that you hoped the affairs of the government groups would have in their hands, the issues agreed to be made to the chamber. But I'm not going to go out on that comparison. All I want to do is ask members of Stockholm and the merchants who came into the matter in the latter part of its work to congratulate them deeply on this. I think this is where we're walking for good.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u92	A respectable president. I draw attention to the fact that while many have discussed this matter under these circumstances, there is still much harmony in this regard. More or less all who have expressed themselves about the vote have spoken in a very similar way. This is because, first of all, this is a good thing, a matter of righteousness, but also because men won the case so that they would cooperate about it. Certain changes were made, but the result was that everyone could accept the matter. There is one way, as I mentioned an example earlier, a respectable president, it's fine when you can go that way. But in the case of the government group case, it is suggested that the matter should be resolved, i.e. to be able to vote for them without necessarily planning to get everybody's opinion on the matter. This is true of one subject that was agreed on as part of the House concluded, but now it seems that even now it is not appropriate to allow the matter to be paid voted. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u93	A respectable president. It was all right. paritaprevir At the end of my speech, Sigmundur the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson arrived at the end of which I could not enter at the end. Of course, when a matter that is part of a meeting is removed from its original purpose, it must take place in consultation and harmony with those who speak in the language. It cannot be a human understanding that negotiations are to be made in some other way. That's a bit of a outback. I think it's best that we talk about it as such, because there's no way that one matter is taken out of its course and may have a complete disagreement with the council that would recommend it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u94	V.E.G. President. I want, like other members of Congress, to congratulate the people on this case and Guðmundur Ingi, the son of Kristinsson, who is the rest of the case. He is very firm in his language and in what he is being taken into custody at the General Assembly. There are many things that one might take as an example from him. This is a matter for the smallest of our brothers and sisters. So I view the matter that is not at the council and about taking the mortgage out of the index, as a matter for the underdog, because those who have mentioned among the hands carry the weightiest load at the expense of getting a roof over their heads, to be told.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u95	V.E.G. President. What is good about this provision is that the council came to a understanding of the decision to make a success of the situation, as they would like, and in full agreement with it. I'm sorry, man, man, but it's hard work. Perhaps they have felt that one good deed a day was sufficient, for another matter that will be discussed later today did not suffer the same fate. True, it was agreed that they counted, but the deal was concluded. There's a lot of concern, and it's really bad. There's a very evil premonition for how this is going to be held in affairs for the rest of this terms, no matter how long it will be. That is why I still challenge men to come to an agreement on the topic No. 8 so that they will be granted the money they deserve, and the 100,000 homes that are prepared to know the positions of individual senators and to classify themselves to them.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u96	A respectable president. V.E.G. The current U.S. president of the Generalis has a lot of experience in Congress, more experience than anyone in this room. V.E.G. As a result, the president of the II Parliament knows the importance of the contract. He will surely know the countless stories of the time when presidents have gone into court to finish them, to resolve them, or to make sure that they are in the meeting laws made. That's why I want to encourage the highest. The President of the Generals to use this experience and to show that it is useful to the council under the circumstances presented here, meeting with members of Congress, and ensuring that the agreements made concerning the end of the council will be handled properly by members of the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u97	Mr. President. We've all come to realize what this is all about. There's a growing cart here. We all know this, both personal and professional, if we are confronted with assignments of mass knots, and we are tempted to solve those who are the easiest, but always wait to solve the most difficult. It's pretty strange that a few new recruits are giving advice on the facts. The senator, but I must encourage you, Mr. President, to pause this meeting and try to solve the sharpest knot in the dispute. That's when all the other stuff comes up. No matter what man thinks about it, and who's right, it's not gonna work this way. The excitement and conduct in this hall will only grow to dishonor us all. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u98	The president offered an extended period of time to discuss this matter and to try to find a solution to what is mainly human interest, i.e. The 8th session. He was told of the victims of the situation at the beginning of the meeting that is now taking place after a break. As a result, there is no choice but to work in harmony with the program and the assembly today. According to the president, he believes that this work is being done in the spirit of the agreement at the end of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u99	A respectable president. I was going to talk about something else in this speech but from the very beginning. In view of the fact that there was nothing to be negotiated in part by the central category, the president of this conversation was a message I carried to the president. Although I've brought the message to him during the minutes that were taken in after the conference of council classes earlier with the president, I'm suggesting that there might be room for us to land at any point during the day. That's why I've encouraged the highest. A president to recess a meeting again. I'm not suggesting to the highest. The president was directly involved in the withdrawal of the deduction motion by hand, but the highest. The president is in the position of retrieving matters in this room and proclaiming a meeting is for that purpose. But I reiterate that in the brief conversation I had after the conference, there was nothing on the tables that indicated that there was a probability that the matter would be resolved there.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u100	V.E.G. President. I'd like to, like others in this room, encourage the president to grab on the probationary bank and think of the thirty and some council he's been sitting here and all the Senate that he's come to become participant in, etc., to pull all the experience out and try to wear clothing on the weapons he's up here, correct the injustice, and feel a brief pause, and cross the 8th program with the appropriate means of completing Congress within a few days of good peace. I trust the highest. A president perfectly to do so, and I know that he has enough trust to do so well.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u101	It should not be that the president is subtracting from his bank of experience and is eager to consider two proverbs: patience is a workman, and he knows everything that may wait.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u102	A respectable president. I'd like to ask the highest. The president of one question in the light of his earlier words, for I believe that President's answers are of significant importance during the continuation of Congress work for the remainder of the term period. I heard correctly, said the highest. A president from the President's chair that he believed that the way that had been meant to be decomposed in the Central Party case would be within the agreement? Did he say that from the President's chair? Did he just stand out that the treatment involved in the middle party case is part of the agreement? This is very important, because I heard the president say so. That's why I'm asking and asking for Mr. President's answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u103	A respectable president. Now you have a vote on Case 1, 2 and 3 of a program and are going to vote on eight cases combined. In these three cases, I thought it was a perfect deal for all the votes, 189 votes have been paid. There was no problem. The senators entered the hall and pressed greens in most cases, agreed on things that lay ahead, and then people continued, or should have done so, but there was, of course, still. The situation is because a section of members of Congress cannot consider voting on a matter that is very simple in taking a stand on whether to say yes, no, or to sit by. Then this can be done by a vote, "If you need to, you'll be able to do it. " But this has been 189 votes since the beginning of this conference, and it seems to me that there was no problem with that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u104	Mr. President. Looks like we're at some station point here. I suggested earlier this morning and again now, and I do so again and again that the officers gather and discuss this agreement because we have talked about it now and again. I think it's normal for people to have time to sit down and discuss it. That's why I want to ask the highest. President that he pauses at this council meeting to give a reason. Congress officials make room for a conversation and reach some conclusion regarding both the agreement and the outcome of the matter. I believe it will be the most successful end of this planned last day of the council to try to reach an acceptable conclusion for all concerned persons. I wish once again that there will be a recession at a council meeting so that the presidents, and possibly members of the House will be able to talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u105	V.E.G. President. I appreciate that. The president would detract his hat from two proverbs and a word for us senators and would like to answer with two of them. The first is like this: Patience worketh all. I believe that we can cope with this and that day with patience and perseverance. The other saying, however, is: Often the old things are good. As an old man, I'm going to direct it once more to the president that he is now taking part in a recession, meeting with every partner, that the president will not give up until his full fists come to an agreement that everyone can accept so that we can end our terms properly.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u106	A respectable president. It must be the highest power. The president is concerned that the administrative body to which it belongs should not be prepared to vote on a particular matter. V.E.G. This must seem mysterious to a president, not even to be trusted to vote for a case at the Council. Of course, they are free to take their stand on the matter, to vote as they please, but they just don't want to vote. For the President of Generalis, it must be a concern that men are willing to reassign the Senate and even their end because they are afraid to vote. There's got to be an alarm call. It's got to be the best. The president urges us to intervene and encourage those members of the council who fear to vote to push the button, no matter what colour you want to press.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u107	Mr. President. Something's going worse than I expected. I stood as most members of the council, believing that all contracts on the end of Congress had been concluded. Since this matter was not presented before, it is a bit surprising. However, in view of the fact that this situation has come up, I think it is advisable to interrupt the meeting and try to find some conclusion that this meeting plan, that everything is going in a very painful step, is not a failure to achieve a lot of results. I recommend to the President that there be a recession at a meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u108	A respectable president. I have noticed that when the speakers have finished speaking, the president has repeatedly expressed himself. However, the president has not chosen to answer the question raised earlier, whether or not I have taken it just after the president issued a decree that the treatment presented in the Middle Order's case be included in the agreement. I call for President to answer that question. It matters considerably, not just today, but the rest, how the president decided. For example, I have already noted that the president did not sit in contact with the heads of the political parties when these cases were negotiated. I insist that the President express his opinion on this. If it is so that the president has made a decision, we're in a very different place, not just in the days that remain but in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u109	The President speaks for himself and for himself. What the president said earlier is that the way he's handled the matter, the meeting administration and the setting up a case is that his judgment is all in accordance with the agreement made here. The president had no information that one or nothing was missing in that material until five minutes before. one today, when a member of the Central Party arranged a meeting with the members of Congress to present a case where certain proposals for the release of a case were in the middle party's distaste. The president does not get involved, but the president speaks for himself and his meeting board, the way the program is set up, and the rest of the way it is being handled. Regarding repeated wishes that the president will solve this problem by interrupting a meeting, the president twice today has offered time for conversations if possible to find ways to do this, but the conclusion has been that it would be pointless. There will be meetings, council assemblies, and the program. As soon as the president gets information about the fact that the wood was born in some conversation or some agreement ground, he's ready to set aside space for it, but it's not going to be taken down this meeting just with the demands of that kind of thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u110	Mr. President. All is three. The question is, Should we not try to sit down for the third time and find a happy solution that everyone can enjoy? I'm the highest. That's what a president is for. It is natural to think about why this matter should not be considered here for a vote. Are the government groups afraid to reduce the value of insurance? Have not all classes proclaimed pre-election to reduce the value of insurance? So when it comes to keeping up with the big words, you refuse to vote. The common people need to think that we will handle this case that has plagued the nation for decades. We all know that there is truly a situation in the community, in this society, in order to reduce the value of insurance in Iceland and out of it, this is going to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u111	Mr. President. I have to say, I don't think it's a great deal of solution to this case. With all due respect for the matters that await payment and that were scheduled today, two major cases will be held, i.e. the personal protection and then the Schengen and the foreign languages. Such matters are impossible but requires that they receive their discussion, professional discussion, even though a crisis may be involved, and all of us know why. That alone is close to being unannounced, yet it was agreed, and we will continue as long as the other aspects of the agreement continue. But these matters will not be settled under the shadow of human experience that the agreement has not been concluded. There must be a requirement to set the top priority in the matter of government by example, and members of the Parliament, whether in the highest court, have called for a meeting. General President or no. This knot must be dissolved. There are many cases waiting, some of which are huge. We need to look out of this and find solutions to the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u112	Mr. President. I'd like to take my mind off the speech of the last senator who came up here, that's exactly what it is. The president has explained that he did not receive the message from the body of Congress that there was a disagreement until five minutes before this meeting that was scheduled for a vote. It is understandable, then, that a president who has twice given the opportunity and space for members of the council to agree on how to face this situation and to be rejected cannot help but direct the foretold meeting. I understand that very well. The ball is now with members of the House and the heads of the clans, they have to sit down and find land in the case. This will be a very understandable subject for negotiations, whether or not to hide behind that word, which may be quite common, since it is very common for a person to have an vocabulary in order to cheat, so it is said to take care of his own matters in some way. At least it's clear what the Central Party wants in this case. It should not surprise anyone that he wants to receive or resist a vote. That is what they rightly feel has been buying at the council contract, which is understandable. [[The president calls.]] On the other side of the table, they do not want to do so, believing that the outcome of the case meant that somehow it should be done. It is true, if we have a word - for - word saying, that the outcome of the case may also mean putting it away with a subjugation, but it is clearly out of harmony with humans. [[The president calls.]] It's just the presidents of the clans and members of the council who can sit down and resolve this matter. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Until that happens, we're gonna stay here. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Understandably.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u113	V.E.G. President. As mentioned in the preceding talk, it is evident that the ruling classes are not very effective in this matter. I can't believe it's possible to make a vote on this matter, such as any of the above cases. I think it's clear in my head that the senators of the Future Party do not want to vote on the case because they agree with it but are unable to vote with it, nor can they imagine being on red. I kind of figured it out, though I've heard it a lot today. I think it's a weird conclusion if it's true, but I'm the next thing I'm sure it's true.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u114	Mr. President. It is one thing to be steadfast, and it is respectable, but it is another thing to show a vat. There's been a vag in this chamber that's all that's gonna do but tighten the knot. I mean, the knot is still so easily fixed. Recently, the highest. The president correctly interviewed that the end of a council that was now imminent would have the most peaceful end of a council he had experienced, and he is now a member of Congress. I think there's been a lot of things, including. that he's been a solution, he's been a conversational and cooperative man. But I also believe that the government side works in a different way than we're used to. Perhaps we can be criticized for not having been hard enough, having not been enough here for the evening to scream and growl. But we got in the game trying to solve the situation. And we made this conversation with the prime minister earnestly. We believed it, when we gave it after not leaving two cases of each anti - general sect but one matter, that it would be followed faithfully. That's what I'm pointing to at the highest. First, the prime minister calls to us the heads of the classes, for I am convinced that this can be solved. [[The president calls.]] But this matter cannot be resolved until the presidents of the classes sit down and discuss the matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u115	A respectable president. First, I'd like to commend the highest. President for an excellent meeting board. I've been talking about responsibility here in this meeting chair, and she's really into my mind. I will never agree with what language I hear from him. People, some, teach others that they are in the platform for a talk, and that is the case. It's none other than me to blame me for standing here. Similarly, it is the choice of all the senators who have come up here today to express themselves. I must declare disappointment that we cannot simply face the fact that there are more than one person involved in this matter. Here before me, the chairman of a party, and here are other leaders who have spoken. Why do people not merely talk to one another rather than point out the other responsibility? This is where we spoke. paritaprevir Jón Ólafsson's view that the Central Party's position should not surprise people. Yes, she surprised me. Hv. The head of the Central Party is an economic and business committee and has known since June 8th, Friday, what was the intention of more part of the Economic and Business Committee. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Why would he not answer that question?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u116	Mr. President. Maybe something's going to keep us going. Let us say that the council leaders, or presidents, meet together and sit down and resolve this matter, since the agreement has to be accepted and respected. However, there is still a recession for a meeting. We are at votes today and cannot be expected to remove at least eight people from the hall to discuss their conclusions. In effect, the president of the council has the program, and I recommend that he use it now.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u117	Mr. President. I'd like to come up to make a move and join up with what's happened. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of K. Gunnarsdóttir's daughter that the best bra was coming together and talking down on a common conclusion on the subject. In fact, I believe the President's conference board was fine at this council. But we have arrived at the point where we were going to finish the case today, and I would be very sorry if it ended in some sort of confusion rather than trying to figure out a solution. I'd think it would be a very boring end to another fine assembly. Therefore, I would like to reiterate my desire that the presidents get space to meet and discuss differences in their understanding of the agreement. The matter has been discussed by members of the council. I don't think we have anything to do with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u118	Mr. President. I'm quite bored when delegates come that understandably are members of the administrative body and fall into the Puberty, watchdogs are going to be automatically, without listening to those who have been talking. Here people have kindly spoken about trying to settle matters. I am convinced that this can be resolved, only if the leaders and I have the opportunity to sit down and review the situation. But we are not given that amount of space. Sadly, something has fallen, but I am convinced that if we interrupt meetings and the president allows the officers to review the matter, it will be possible to continue a meeting normally and to make a vote, as was announced. Once again, I reiterate that recommendation to the highest degree. The President, who is a member of Congress. He knows and senses that there is a certain atmosphere in the council, which I think is unfortunate because it was heading toward a successful end, something that would raise the council, not subtract it as it is currently planned. Sadly, they are responsible for the responsibility of the greater part of the world.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u119	V.E.G. President. I'd like to agree with the last speaker's words, huh? The senators, the Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir and the Þorgerður of Gunnarsdóttir's Katrín, say that this incident is at the command of the ruling parties. Now, the chairmans of the council should ask the president to pause, meet together, and work out some solution in this matter. I've always been very slow to grapple with, but I can be both persistent and lenient. I don't want to go on that ride and I just wish we could work this out.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u120	A respectable president. Now it's time to vote for a very big deal, a change in the law of Iceland. Ask yourself, " Would it not have been better to write entirely a new Agency bill, or the agency, or the new auto-employment agency, as suggested in the bill? ' Various benefits have been gained in the treatment of this matter by the Committee. The bill has been adjusted considerably, reacting to certain comments. Even though certain things are not handled well enough, I miss them. Then it's mine, for example. We're funding projects and stuff. It is still out in many parts of the world. I believe, however, that this is an improvement. That's to explain specific factors. However, at the same time, the legal structure for which the Agency is to work should remain, or the living room, is a private property agency. As a result, we are prepared to adjust the matter again in the fall.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u121	A respectable president. Just a minute on this matter. A significant comment was made in the processing of the case, as did the members of the committee who had covered the matter thoroughly. This was one of the cases presented, as it were, in negotiations that were held at the end of the council. I think the government groups made six serious or more serious material comments that we, fortunately, made so that we were basically unsuccessful. At the end, there was an issue that was involved in the command. I'm counting on improving the route we left behind. But I also believe that professional life should have a strong voice in this area of cooperation and, in fact, stronger than the Ministry. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u122	Mr. President. I believe that this case is one of the matters that would have been better if they had developed a little longer and had been given more and more coverage. This bill will probably be a law after this, but I'm afraid we'll have to fix it even in the fall because we didn't take enough time to get seriously over it. We're talking about an institution, or what we're going to call this thing, a society that has a little more than a billion dollars a year, both of government money and of money from a variety of stakeholders in the country. That is why I think it would have been better to take time to think more seriously. [[The president calls.]] But now that we're out there and get this far we'll probably vote with it, but I'm sure we'll have to soup off it in the fall.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u123	A respectable president. This is about a lot of interesting subjects. It was very controversial for various reasons, but it has also been made enormous changes. It seems to me that the adjustments are all for improvement, making the situation better, even though it's not perfect and it's something else that might have been added. But there is no other way to draw attention to the large difference between the way people have approached this matter and its payment now and how they approach a different matter, by directly preventing votes about it. Not only is there no attempt to resolve the matter, there must be no vote on it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u124	Mr. President. This is an example of things that improved even. in the House of Congress, and especially after discussions across groups and across governments and oppositions. This is a fine example of how an important matter can be taken in this area, especially by a chairman and an authority official for having handled the matter. I support the case, the majority of the members from the Committee, including... Because many comments we made were taken into account. It is taking important steps to support our employment life, as well as to increase our opportunities to increase our value, our exports, and our service. This is an important step on my side and on my restoration. I don't think the matter might have improved with further treatment of the council, and we'll look at it in a certain time, then we'll go over it again, but as it seems now, it's much better on the part of the council than when it came in. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u125	Mr. President. This matter came into the council in a very different condition, while trying to create some sort of self - worth agency around things that have been done in cooperation with private and state in most countries, and they need community shapes for it. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Happily, much of the situation was accomplished by the committee and brought to a good repair of its flaws, even most of them, as well as by bringing it into complete reexamination after three years, which is positive. Our support for the matter is that it can be revised in this way. There are problems that I hope will not take a great deal out of Iceland's activities. They may be primarily concerned that there is only a small part of the employment situation that has real access to the Agency. Whatever the case, this is a good step forward, and after three years, we will hopefully make some very drastic adjustments to correct all that is lacking. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u126	A respectable president. I delivered more of the committee's opinion yesterday and had a very short period of time, even to the point that I didn't thank the members of the committee at night. The Foreign Affairs Committee is very much involved in this case. I also forgot to say that, under the committee's opinion, write along with me. Councilmen Áslaug K. Sigurbjörnsdóttir K. Gylfadóttir, Trausti Trari Guðmundsson, Resa Björk Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjölfsdótir, Logi Einar Einarsson, Smári Mccarthy and Þorgerður Katrín Gunnarsdóttir. I think we've got a really good case here. It certainly was quite reversed in view of our lack of special partnerships over the cooperation of state and private and third sector. I am very happy for the discussion that has followed the need to be examined, which is one of the provisional regulations in these laws today. I think we can all be happy that this bill gets approved and becomes a reality.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u127	A respectable president. I couldn't make it, because before that, the whole thing as it is, it's a good thing. For my part, I'll support it, and I think this is a positive step in bringing together the power of these projects, whether we look for land espionage or marketing goods or whatever domains we're looking at. I think I'll agree with that as a matter of course. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir came in earlier, that we should be confident that our professional life has a powerful, deep, and profound understanding of what we have in that regard, to support the expertise in it, and to continue to work it in that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u128	A respectable president. I didn't quite finish what I wanted to say about the vote and other things. There are two things that I thought were largely needed to be in the greater sense in this other fine language. First of all, I would have liked to see the funds, i.e. how the money is set aside for the Agency. They're all over the system, i.e. Money being used for a project like that of an Iceland lab is working on. Second, I believe that there should have actually been a better look at hiding a larger part of the employment situation in all of these projects, i.e. that a market council should have had more than a part of their jobs, since it is now that it is the commercial life that sees the opportunities and moves forward. But they need support and support from the Kingdom of God. But I say again: This matter has become quite good, and there is a need to be successful, though there is always something that will improve.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u129	Mr. President. Just a little bit more. I would like to encourage the government, for this is a very important step being taken, the cooperation of the public and the sector, to continue working on what has been suggested, to set a law code, or to co-work, in common between government and private. It is often used in foreign languages as the slogan or the acronym of PPP. I encourage the government to work on bringing a proper bill, even though I am not too hopeful that it will be compared to the view when it comes to cooperation with a health professional. But for a long time, let the man try in this subject, and I encourage the government to put a frame around this relationship. Then, too, I would like to encourage the government to continue trying to make the movie as everything else. So there are still tasks that we are supporting throughout the system. There's not enough transparency. I encourage the government to continue gathering them so that we can get the bigger picture. [[The president calls.]] Thus we can continue to contribute to the work of an Iceland lab that we would like to contribute to.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u130	A respectable president. As I mentioned in the previous vote, all the adjustments made in this matter are improving. It has developed a great deal since its initial entry into the council as a very unappreciative subject. However, as others have mentioned, the lack of the power of professional drivers is a sin. Not only because they have great interests and, as a result, it is only natural for them to come about in a more decisive or tangible way than this one would expect, but because they also have knowledge of the area in which they work. It should prove valuable, to receive as much knowledge as possible, and to make the most of it for all. While there is a flaw in this issue that has not been better considered, the matter has made a great improvement in the affairs of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u131	Mr. President. I just want to reiterate that being involved in a part-of-the-art committee party is at the highest level. I have hoped that, with two representatives of the European Union's European Commission and the National Focal Council, as it is called, the national market room's viewpoint will be to color its activities, because behind the marketing firm, there are, as you can see, 700 to800 companies in the country area. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u132	A respectable president. I'd love to say something. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthyr when he said the bill was in a very different condition when we got it. In fact, it was in such an amazing situation that all the laws in the country were excluded except traffic laws. All the suggestions on the subject have been made, even though I may feel that there is some lack. We're all agreed on the purpose of the law, but in the other hand, it seems to everyone with what follows. The Senator says yes. I wish I could say here in advance. I'm still saying yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u133	A respectable president. Here is a motion that, like all of them or most of them, is a major improvement. What's in there, even. The Agency is being made up of information legislation, with certain exceptions. I have a certain understanding that they're inside. I believe, however, that it would have been important to have a private institution, in view of how large the state is in it, to agree with a completely different set of information. As a result, I approve of this change and assume that members of the Central Party are also. There are, of course, more changes in the document, on the law, and I expect to be brought back about it when it comes to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u134	A respectable president. I agree with what. paritaprevir Ari Guðmundsson's report on the benefits involved in furthering the links between the rural communities or their organizations and the market room in the country. This is one of the changes that are very improved, but at the same time it serves as a reminder that it could have been achieved with employers, that they could use the knowledge and experience there, and that they would get together in some sort of middle point, so they could have made it bigger than the sum of parts. The same is true, as with any local market agency, such as your local communities or their organisations. I hope this continues to develop in the right direction, but this particular adjustment proposal is certainly improving, so I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u135	A respectable president. First, I'd like to apologize to the president and the employees for how secret I asked for the word. I've been outside for a new pen. It will hear more from him below. But I want this case to say that everything has been greatly improved since it was submitted. I think it's a good thing to get along with the energy and knowledge in the commercial world in that respect and will, in my part, approve of this situation as it exists.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u136	Mr. President. When I spoke earlier about supporting, I meant the changes in my plans, and I'm sorry about that. As far as I'm concerned, this isn't such a well-developed case, despite a considerable number of good changes, that we can support it. We are happy to be changed so that the matter will be reviewed after three years, but the problem remains that only a small fraction of the employment situation is granted access to the Agency, and there are very few problems to be fixed. We're gonna sit on this one.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u137	A respectable president. We're growing and increasing in so-called exports and markets. Local representatives are being added from the European Union, a team of assistants and agents at least One minister, if I recall it correctly. I reiterate what I said earlier that I think it would have been better to move more towards the sector, which is the result of moving forward and marketing of goods, services, and so forth. I don't think that this is done under the authority or under the authority of the government, but, of course, there's a deal to be agreed there and to cooperate, and a very close cooperation, as the management of very qualified and, in fact, excellent people working for us all over the world in the market. But the council is increasing and is now sitting at least 31 if not more.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u138	A respectable president. While this change may be beneficial, such as other forms of change involved in this matter, it is another reminder that there could have been a better and more successful outcome, more the success of trying to achieve the change, if the arrival of a professional driver had been greater or the more rightly said to be trusted in a larger role. It is a little strange that humans do not want to use to a greater extent the power that exists and the knowledge that exists in that area. It is almost as if there were some shy people around things that should not be any shyness at all, i.e. to benefit from the knowledge and strength of people who work in the branches that are under it. Overall, though, this is better than not making this change, so I support the adjustment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u139	A respectable president. I'd like to start by asking the highest. A president, if anything is being heard about the meeting that took place recently. Unfortunately, I have not been able to talk to the chairman of the Central Party about what was asked of him and how it went. I see, however, that the prime minister has entered the hall and is at the highest level. Financial and economic ministers, too. We must ask ourselves, " Has anything happened? Is there any conflict in this room or in another way? ' It is a matter of growing up that we have a few votes, so it is important to get this straight as soon as possible so that if you want to, you can speed it up. That's why I'm asking if the President can inform us about what happened at a hearing.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u140	No other information is available to the president than the fact that almost an hour of the meeting of the presidents of the political parties did not result. The situation remains unchanged, so the program will be continued according to the seminars.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u141	V.E.G. President. It is indeed disappointing if it is true that the chairman's talks on the continuation of Congress have not been successful. If not, Congress work will continue for the next few days. So we respond with the means and tools we have. So we will continue to discuss matters very carefully and carefully review the votes ahead and discuss them and the issues under them. But, all told, a man would have preferred that he could have handled his advice in a way that had reached some conclusion here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u142	A respectable president. It is true that the committee's meeting of the committees did not in itself make any conclusions. Then there is the meaning of some here at the council that negotiations will not be held. It's just how it plays out. Of course, we can go on for a long time today. There are bright days ahead. Perhaps we need to take an ice break from time to time to get the program through. But on the part of the government: Considering that there is no agreement on how the council should be completed, that's just the way it is. That's on both sides. No doubt it will only have to be covered from one day to the next how they want to conduct the Senate service that day. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u143	V.E.G. President. I came up here to celebrate the feeling of reconciliation I heard in the words of the highest. Secretary of finance - or not. But what he says is true; if there's no agreement to handle matters in any painful way, they'll be in a different way. There will probably be no gain, no more respect for anyone and the council. You can't let everything pass. If humans do not accept an agreement that has been made, they must simply take the consequences and will continue to do so as long as possible. However, I rejoice over the words of the highest degree. Secretary of finance that we can go on for a long time into the night. I've missed a proper night meeting all this winter, and I'm prepared to spend the next night having a good time. There is nothing more upbuilding and fun than staying here all night. [[The president calls.]] [[Foreground: Say.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u144	V.E.G. President. I am happy to announce that this matter has come on schedule and for a vote. I appreciate being able to report that I am aware that the matter has been in operation for a long time in the Environmental and Resource Ministry, where I had a few steps before and that the staff there have worked very hard to get the case to the level of it. I also know that the matter has been successfully treated. The Environment and Transport Committee will, of course, help to bring a successful end to the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u145	A respectable president. I'm on the board as a DC Committee member, but I'd like to point out one point that I feel is missing in the adjustment process and that's about the Internet law that I'm particularly interested in. I thought there was an agreement about the outside limit of Internet law, i.e. that the national reference line is from the outer limit of the grid. The adjustment is made only: The region from Internet law to the outer limit of the economic law history. This marks the real planning area, from Internet law to economic law. All right, this is not clear on the land, of course. The Internet is an area that varies from one to three hundred feet [ 115 m] in length, and it must be made clear that it is from an external limit rather than an internal limit. I believe the 3rd. that word has to be adjusted.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u146	A respectable president. On this occasion, I wanted to commend myself. Environmental and transport committees for the implementation of the situation. In many ways, this is complicated and opinions that have developed that have had to be considered specifically by the local experts, those who know best in their territory, and then conform to it all, the information, and the complete bill that I seem to have achieved. Then it is appropriate to use the results of the work as an incentive to approach things directly in other matters too, and I don't talk about people following what has already been agreed on. In many ways, our work is exemplary, and we should be encouraged in other matters too.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u147	A respectable president. It's been quite a while in the discussion, at least in Iceland, about how organizational matters are involved in marine and coastal areas. Many of us have had meetings with rural communities in many parts of the country, where their concerns have been developed and as their will to have more to say. As far as I'm concerned, most of the concern that has been shown by those who are making changes on this bill or on the bill at least has been reached. This, of course, is a cause for rejoicing. It is also fun to relate that in the West, people have been trying to specialize in teaching this aspect, which is very upbuilding. A respectable president. I'm glad we're in a position to accept this case here, but I'm sure, like, with a lot of other stuff that's agreed on in the final meters, there's a need to reconsider something and something else when Congress comes back together.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u148	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. The Environment and Transport Committee for cooperation with the work in this case that I am an expert on, but as in other matters yesterday, there was little time to review the committee's opinion. Then I would like to have a word out of my mouth. paritaprevir Gauti Hjaltason to enter that it should not be passed on that is a region from Internet law, from the outer limit of the grid, and over that I have gone specifically. However, there was an error in the first edition, which was distributed here, and it was good to be able to set it out from a speaker's chair. However, the adjustment proposal has been printed up and should be found correctly on the Internet and in the sideroom.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u149	V.E.G. President. I'm celebrating this case. I'm a little nervous when it came to the council, and I've gone over it, but I've been working with certain communities to see that they have more access to it, and that's a good thing. You see, when discussing matters on the land or around the country, those who are familiar with localities and close to what is being discussed are often, perhaps no more than they need to listen to their viewpoint. [[Set it up: especially there.]] Yeah, especially there. It was good to hear about the Internet law. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir came in, that it was also becoming clear. It looks like the best part to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u150	Mr. President. I thank you very much today at the Council today. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I need to ask for this case of a travel agency as a guide that it will go to the why. Work committees between 2 and 3rd. There were some comments coming from a travel agency that are technical, minor, but articles need to be synchronized. It's my wish to go to the pro committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u151	V.E.G. President. If I said I'd be okay with this suggestion as it looks right now, I wouldn't be telling the truth. Of course, a person is reaching out in various directions so that an agreement can be reached and that an assembly can be completed in a decent way. I understand its sensitivity to a number of people in this room having to vote for a bill made by the middle-class officials. That's why I'm content with this ending. On the other hand, I request a roll call at this vote on deduction, and I will, of course, vote against it. I think I can also guarantee that this is not the last case here on the Central Party that insurance will be canceled, either in part or in all, and will look forward to presenting the next one here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u152	A respectable president. There are many in this room who may never have had to worry about borrowing, who have never been worried about finding housing in the tenements, who may not be particularly worried about loans. That's too bad. We need to increase the number of such ones during the council so that they will reflect more well the nation. Of course, this is a delicate matter and has a long history. The fact is, however, that Iceland is not like Iceland was 19 hundred eighty and something when these laws were passed. We need to recognize that insurance cannot last forever. It is not fair for borrowers to shoulder the entire load. We need to look ahead, to find solutions. There are solutions. I believe this case goes to votes. There are many opinions about that in Pirata, but I'm at least thinking that this case deserves our careful consideration. [[The president calls.]] I would support a vote and pay with that vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u153	Mr. President. The house - to - house of the index has produced large quantities of domestics and has helped to drive families, fathers, mothers, and children from their homes. This trend is expected to continue. This housing team measures the impact of organizational policies here in Reykjavík, at this facility, as renting here is a short period of time. This has nothing to do with inflation, it's a complete demolition of reality. I strongly recommend that they take the cause of the Icelandic family and agree with this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u154	A respectable president. It is very strange for a person not to rely on this matter, some of whom, because this issue has not just recently taken its stand. People have been discussing issues involving the insurance policy and its composition for years. In fact, groups have been appointed to carry out the suggestions given by committees. I remind you that early in 2014, the current government adopted an action programme on how to defuse insurance. It wasn't finished in all places. But later, there has been another approach, including This approach here, starting with taking the mortgage out of the index and having classified as the forward party made it a specific policy. Not that an employee would be appointed to consider the benefits of taking the mortgage out of the index, no, the policy was that the mortgage should be taken out of the index. [[The president calls.]] Then you must want to use this opportunity to vote for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u155	V.E.G. President. This issue is about whether this case should be assessed professionally before the adjustment proposed by the bill. Now we've got a what? The Economic and Business Committee will conclude on the matter. There are two committee opinions, and I support the opinion of more things. It would be quite unusual, since the Council agreed here on 8 May unanimously to have a professional assessment of this, that was entirely in line with the results of a financial reevaluation team, to plan that 15 minutes later to accept the matter just like that, without evaluating professional effects on loans, interest, money policy decisions. That would be quite a strange message from the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u156	Mr. President. Last May, we all agreed that a group of workers should examine the quality or defect of the index and whether housing prices should be included in an index or not. On June 8 of the past, more than a part of the Economic and Business Committee was supplied, in attendance. paritaprevir Sæmundsson, the case from a committee with a check-up that we now vote for. The reason we have this checkout is just that we're taking care of and agreeing that we're going to put together a guarantee and a guarantee in a way that would make the most sense to deal with it when it comes to securing insurance and having insurance on some loan commitments or not. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u157	A respectable president. I am pleased to be allowed to vote on this motion of the greater part here. I think the thinking behind the matter is good, but that the matter is neglected and not professionally won. There is no assessment of the effects of this huge decision. That's why I've wanted to be able to vote with the suggestion of the greater part to continue winning the case. I am happy to do so. I still feel that I was on May 8, in this council hall when I thought that professional work on the case would have to be on the move to make such a big decision. I still believe that professional work needs to be done, so I will feel the same way as I was then, like all other members of Congress who voted on May 8.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u158	A respectable president. A few days ago, a book was published. Then the superintendent of the Superintendent saw a reason to put on Facebook, I think it was, by permission of the President: The proposals of the money policy committee include in taking the mortgage out of the index. This proposal we are in progress completely agree with. It is good to find professional support and well - thought - out arguments from experts with that suggestion. Now it's just a question of whether the head of the advance party still feels the same way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u159	A respectable president. We listen to members of the council who are very happy to consider this matter, put it on a committee, take a closer look at it. I don't know any better than we've been talking about this for a long time. This nation has been talking about the insurance policy for decades. The insurance market has been debated for decades. Don't you think it's time to get rid of it? Here's a suggestion to get the staff out of the index. I suggest we accept it. Do you think heaven and earth will be destroyed? This is the work of men. Let's finish this. Let's drop the paradox and agree to the Central Party proposal. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u160	Mr. President. As mentioned here at Wanker's. In the past, the General Assembly agreed to a unanimous synopsis to review this matter from different sides of the specialist's staff. Thus, in the United States, it is only natural for us to point this matter into the same direction. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u161	As a result of this deliberation proposal, there is a large price for the homes and families of the country. I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u162	A respectable president. It is all in the same book learned from this government and these administrative parts. It is not handled by any created object, even in the case of a matter involving government groups, that has made it possible for them to vote accordingly. No, then they vote against it or they want to dismiss the case, put it on the committee. This is all a matter of just starting new and new committees to deal with things, because this government doesn't deal with anything, she has no vision, she has no solutions. The answer is always a new committee. Even if it is matters that have been discussed by other committees, which have been presented to the conclusions of action groups have been assigned to perform. No, the answer is always: a new committee. Even in one of the largest election terms of one of the board groups, they vote against achieving it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u163	A respectable president. This and comparable to that, we progressives have fought for many years without success until May 8 when it was approved here in the Senate Hall. In the Treaty, we talk about taking the mortgage out of the index. The money policy committee that arrived the other day suggested that this be done carefully and carefully. We support professional practices that gradually support matters. It takes time to work a foundation for what needs to be done. A few years ago, the ASI fought this case, the labor movement. Others have come to believe that this is the course of wisdom. We want to work professionally, and we will. In the fall, a bill, or next winter, will likely appear about the change in Belurla Bank and in some way. This case, after you've had a professional discussion on a committee. Just like we all agreed in this room. [[The president calls.]] Me and the government want professionalism and less drumming.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u164	V.E.G. President. The housing team has moved 50 billion from its homes in one year to the financial system and 118 billion in five years. By voting with this contraband, the situation will not be affected. So I refuse to dismiss this case, and I want this case to be passed and not dismissed. I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u165	Mr. President. When we do things in a very different way than all the countries around us, a marvelous reason is needed to maintain that condition. This housing problem is the way the countries around us do it, and it should be reason enough to take it out. This has been analyzed and analyzed for decades. In spite of all of this, it has been possible to make peace with a committee. I hope that the committee will give us the conclusion that, of course, should come in this regard, since it has been so widely diagnosed. The problem today is that a series of events is not as best chosen and the analysis work has not been sufficiently good in this particular case. I'm afraid I'm forced not to vote on this case. I guess the other Piranhas are out of their way and with their votes. But the point is that this is such a matter that we should have been through it long ago. Let's finish this fall.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u166	The Senator says?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u167	Don't vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u168	A respectable president. I'm saying yes, but I didn't agree on the case earlier to invite my middle-class friends to join me in this matter. The objective is the same. We are on a journey, the General agreed to join the government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, who has this planned in a government contract. It would be a real challenge, though, when our objective is the same that we do professional work and achieve the results of all of us on this matter as one thing. The invitation is still open. I hope I see what. The members of the Central Party join the council in this important matter with national interest in the future. I repeat that I say yes and hope to see what. The members of the Central Party with us on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u169	Mr. President. Thank you for having me. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thors, son of Þórsson. On page 109 of this book, we see why we should do this. It shows the difference between index and absence of housing teams. While waiting for the findings of the Committee, in the country, the security rates, including 100,000 homes, will increase by a few hundred billion. No, thank you, Mr. Senator, I'm not going to wait for this and help raise the loans of the country's homes by tens of billions, while some financial writers are considering this case, which we already have to deal with right now. Thank you for the invitation, but no, thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u170	The Senator says?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u171	The Senator says no. [[I just heard no, thank you.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u172	Mr. President. I'm just going to come up, because I thought for a minute to the top. A secretary of transportation was going to say: "We support professional independent statistical analysis for a new national hospital. But I guess it wasn't. The Senator says no.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u173	Mr. President. In this regard it has been said about professional practices, the need to put the matter on a committee, and to review professionally, how it affects economics, growths, and so forth. All right. However, it is acceptable to draw in the European Union's personal protection legislation on 150 pages, a law book, with no discussion to make a vow. How does this affect the economic situation, affecting the financial resources of hundreds of millions? But it's not okay to bring this matter in here. I'm just saying, it's crystal clear now that the government of Katrín's daughter, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, has no interest in reducing the value of insurance, no interest in improving the votes of the public in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u174	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u175	The Senator says?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u176	No.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u177	A respectable president. War against my generation has been fought in the real estate market and war against the common people. Hundreds of people live in illegal rented houses, hundreds do not find homes, and hundreds, no, thousands are falling from unfair loans. Not fair. I'm just saying, like my Prancer buddy, where's the logic support? Where is the argument that it's like this? Because this is the exception of globally. We just need to do better. Since 2009, all governments and conventions have failed from memory and from generation to generation in this country at the facility market. Let's just get a grip on. This may be a good first step toward a reasonable loan. Of course, we should also build a less expensive rented apartment for the common people.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u178	The Senator says?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u179	Says no.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u180	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u181	A respectable president. This is a response to a mass-of-the-art holiday situation, and it's very important to do so. I've been sitting here today watching a lawsuit on various matters, and I've felt a little bit like I've been watching some kind of custody dispute. A custody debate over this matter. I have even felt as if I were in some kind of highland meeting of the Annexe Party in 2016. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] All right. I think it's a good thing. We are to work on this, and in May we made our decision to do just that. And we made the decision to do so well. I think we should do it well. I think that some wise men should come near to this matter, and pass over it. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u182	A respectable president. I now realize that some members of the United Nations are very familiar with the prejudicial issues within the party, so it is not surprising that this is the case with the senator. I'd like to do a little bit, a respectable president, to give a little speech at the top. The secretary of transportation and the chairman of the advance party, who swallowed up on Trump for some reason. But I'm going to let it go, for it could end up making that man a reward for peace, think about it. But I'm going to say that while you're still in it. paritaprevir Willum Þór Þórsson and other members of this hall say yes to this proposal, while they've been thinking and calculating what's been done and doing, while thinking of it, the same experts who have already said they have to do it, their homes have lost billions of dollars above, at the offer of those who are going to think about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u183	The Senator says?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u184	No.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u185	A respectable president. As we have seen the events of the day, this case is not black/white, nor is it green, red, or yellow. As mentioned earlier, a money - policy committee has pointed out that this is probably the way forward in the big context. On the other hand, I'm not well enough in my affairs to say no. So I'll be sitting by on this vote. However, I like to bear in mind that this is a matter that really is the public of this country and something that is used very much in a campaign to get in here. I hope there will be follow-up and it will be taken seriously and continued.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u186	A respectable president. On May 8 of the past, we all agreed to look at and point it out something because it was the best thing we could do at that time and not come up with the position we have a chance to vote for in the council today. The fact is, we've been experimenting on the nation for 40 years, these insurance insurance experiments that have taken on families in this country that have been the most aggressive animals in the field. We're hitting a world record. I don't care if it's the highest. A secretary of transportation says, "I don't know how in the world we're dealing with Trump." I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u187	V.E.G. President. I've decided to say no. I do this because I think it would have been more reasonable for Congress to take sides in the matter itself. I would like to make it clear that I had said a loud, clear no to that proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u188	A respectable president. One, one, eight, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, creditors have owed money to the home of this country for the last five years because of their housing team. We've been waiting. Homes have been waiting for 40 years. They can no longer wait for committees, staff, advice. The Senator says no.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u189	Mr. President. Here we vote for a proposal that is in direct context with what the General has previously agreed to and adopted here May 8th. There was a unanimous agreement that a working group would take this into consideration, both in terms of insurance debt commitment, but also in the context of the findings of the review policy, they produced in the days where the fact that having prices inside a consumer penance number can create an overlap in the objectives of prices and financial status. So it's in a process that's going over it by our most skilled experts on how to achieve a good landing so that we can secure stability and also determine where we want to go. We also know that there are differences in how housing prices are calculated into the index. For example, in Iceland, there is something that has been done to make a film different from that in Sweden. It is also included in a pay sheet in Canada, for it says here that we are in some unique position regarding the presence of the mortgage in an indicator number. I just think that this discussion will show the genre that it is very logical to say yes to this proposal and to work on it better. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u190	A respectable president. I recommend a change of motion at 2. the bill, on 1. Twenty-one. The law. She put it this way: ▪ A sentence to the question of the fatherhood of a child may appeal to the child himself and to his mother, including the one registered to be the father of a child, according to Article 2. or a man who thinks he's the father of a child. Here comes the changing, technical point we're working on in this adjustment proposal: ▪ If the father or the person claiming to be the father of a child is dead, he or she can be heir to the one who walked in or near the child's side as an inheritance will appeal to that matter. This is a technical adjustment to allow the article to work out from that purpose of the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u191	Mr. President. What a step if we, as members of the United States, are able to accept this change in child law in terms of the fundamental right of a child to know its origin! I have come here to thank the welfare committee for the good work that was done there. I'd also like to thank a great shipman from the Committee, why. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason, who has previously given this same matter at the council, has been very cooperative. In a way, our hearts were beating in this matter. It's not every day that the Conspiracy and the Independence Party hang out on one thing, but it happened in this case. I have to say, if we succeed in accepting the case, I'm really happy. I know this is very important for children as well as for fathers who have never been in the family business before.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u192	Mr. President. Like the first speaker, I want to thank you very much for my job on a welfare committee. I especially want to thank you. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason for holding this matter tightly. That's important to a lot of people.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u193	Mr. President. This is a matter of unambiguous justice. I thank those who have worked here. I know that there is no leaning on anyone, even if that is the case. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason is mentioned in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u194	A respectable president. I have supported this matter in the council, and after 2rd, I supported it. This is an enormously delicate family subject that calls for a review from all sides of the family. I miss the action of this case that no reports from any other sources have been received than are mentioned in the leading list of members. What I'm most concerned about in this matter is unprovoked speech, i.e. when people mistakenly consider themselves to be associated with children and start off, falsely, matters that upset family life. [[The president calls.]] I have not seen in enough sure that such neglect is taken into consideration. I have also missed the fact that this aspect of the matter, the other side, has been taken up under sufficient discussion. At this point, therefore, I cannot get myself to support the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u195	Mr. President. I recommend here to the Committee's panel a greater part of the Committee on Internal Affairs (IRC) with a change in bill to correct customs law, no. 88/2005, with subsequent changes. The committee has brought in guests and reviews and discussed the matter in several meetings. The bill stipulates the addition of tax laws to temporary regulations. This means that the overall increase in customs for so - called ethnic cheeses will be immediately allowed in the adopted year of Iceland and the European Union's agreement on agriculture trade, instead of reaching that increase in four years. It is then recommended that the milk of breast-feeding infants be free of toll. Reasons 1................... The bill is then a declaration to a greater part of the employment committee, when the provision of agricultural contracts was legalized in the fall of 2016, i.e. 680th trial at the 145th legislature. In view of the greater part, it was stated that it had been decided in collaboration with the Minister to speed up the production of increasing food for imports so that it would be implemented in the first year of the contract of the Iceland with the European Union. This bill will restore the improvement for that change. The majority suggest a change in the bill to an additional 2018 to 105 tons and an additional 105 tons in 2019. This amount would be expressed in two years but not once. Thus, tollocto would be 230 tons starting in 2019 C.E. At the same time, the Commission proposes improvement of the bill; on the other hand, in view of the law, a minister can provide further provision for the implementation of the directive in a Regulation and that prior to November 1, 2018, Ministers should have had the assessment to be performed to assess the effect on the Icelandic market caused by the import equipment on cheeses protected by cultural signs or by protected geographic markings. The appointment should be presented to a professional road committee. The evaluation should look for the viewpoints of those of interest. The work programme will discuss whether there is a basis for the legislature to respond in some way. The majority of them aim to speed up access to the EU's internal market for dairy products. In this way, the majority of the funds were considered to be a greater part of the employment committee from September 7, 2016, when the provision of agricultural contracts was legalized. The greater part of the report shows that a collective price on the local bread plant may be a challenge to the response of the fast - growing competition in the bread market. The majority of the items are aimed at considering the need for this increased import. The majority suggest that the bill be approved by a change as follows: We are 1st. par.Unable to Instead of the words, a figure of 210 tons, proportional to the date of the contract's draft date, and tollvoti per year after the contract's validation will be 230 metrics and an additional 105 tons will be 105 tons in 2019. Thus, tolcvoti every year since 2019 becomes 230 tons. In addition, two new paragraphs, as follows: Agri-environmental adviser makes further regulations in the Regulation. Prior to November 1, 2018, a minister of agri-environment schemes should have the assessment of the effects of the import equipment on cheeses protected by source symbols or by protected geographic markings in the Icelandic market and presented to a professional health committee. The review should take into account the opinion of those interested in them. Elíasdóttir Sufjörg Elisdóttir and Smári Mccarthy sign in advance. Substantial note: Director Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, president of this magazine, executive director of the case, Inga Sæland, Ásmundur Signý Kristjánsdóttir, Elíasdóttir Frinífjörðurfjörðurfjörðurfjörg, Friðriksson, Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, and Smári Mccarthy, with a warning mentioned earlier. This is the opinion of the Commission from before the weekend, Friday. As a result, I'll go over the matter a little bit and discuss it more. All of us can be sure that in recent days the situation has been worked at a high rate on this particular employment committee bill and has provided important information in the case during the last days. During 2016, the greater part of the work committee was considered to be the success and implementation of the case by the majority of the Committee. After the second meeting of the Work Board in the past Friday afternoon, the person who is present for further research after much doubts had arisen during reading and analysis of the 2016 majority of the professional drivers'opinions regarding the customs agreements discussed here. There is already a import of cheeses after a new EU toll agreement. At the beginning of May, there was the first distribution of literature to import. This year, the amount permitted to import in will be less than four times as long. During the contract period, 11 times that. There is no plan to stop that development. A new agreement overturns the portion of the cheese market called the unique market, which is defined today by some 240 tons in Iceland. As the bill was expected, the contract was at its time, that in four years it would be 230 tons, so-called specials, or about 95% of domestic markets. Thus, when a greater proportion of the employment committee agreed to minister in the fall of 2016 to speed up the production of increased food supplies due to special import, it was also directed to the minister of access to the EU's internal market for milk products as if it could end up based on mutual access documents. No formal discussions with the EU have taken place since this agreement was made in the fall of 2016, including ... ina frequenttranslation. That could be one explanation. In view of the greater part, it also says: The much-designed types of cheese that are protected in the EU by references to origin, geographic region or standardised status are not produced in this country and therefore are not directly competed with domestic production. That's a key point. The Ministry was specifically asked about that point last Friday, i.e. whether or not you would find anything in the list of cheeses, which would be in direct competition with Icelandic production. Actually, it's not now Friday, it's two, three weeks from the time it turns out it was supposed to be cheeses that didn't compete with Icelandic production. The answer that came from the Ministry was always that it wasn't. The article made it clear that the majority felt that the controversial tollvoti was limited to cheese that was not produced here on land. On that basis, the induction was accelerated. So in August, it is considered that a large part of the job committee 2016 was considered. So confirmed at the meeting of the employment committee with the head of the Department of State and Employment forum last Friday that the list really contains cheeses that are in direct competition with Icelandic production. On the basis of this new information, it is not only cheeses that are not directly competed with Icelandic production, as well as that there is no quick access to Icelandic milk products on the EU's internal market, it is most appropriate to refer the case back to the employment committee. From this statement, it is clear that there is a marked expansion of public cheese and speciality to the point of returning it to the Committee and discussing its impact on domestic production and supply. As I noted earlier, the amount will be 230 tons when the toll vacate is complete. Total production in this country is 240 tons. In the EU and Iceland agreement on agricultural trade, tollrots are expected to rise in four years to allow European farmers and commercial food companies to have time to adapt to a largely competitive environment. Within weeks, it has been discovered that among the so - called special cheeses are cheeses that are going to be in direct competition with Icelandic breadots, two weeks, three weeks. The cheeses that are in direct competition with Icelandic production are Gouda and Edam. The most common bread cheese produced here is called Gouda, and the Icelandic bread cheese is based on Edam. That's a big, important point in all this. We were also able to, in the opinion of the professional road committee before this weekend, and in the changing of the employment board's proposals, to determine the overall price of sales at these local cheeses and to direct them to review these issues regarding competitiveness, which may be very difficult for the current system in these matters to deal with the fast-growing competition in the country's bread market. In this case, I believe that right from a professional employment committee requesting that it work a timeline that focuses on the administration of the case, the introduction of the legislation, the execution of the European Commission and others in this case, a timeline that would reach up to the time when the request would be made for a tax agreement on the European Union's import. It seems to me that such a time line has to be restored to 2011 or 2012. It is clear that in the past six or seven years, much has been wronged, especially in the last three years regarding the administration. It is my wish, therefore, as the executive of the case for a professional board that no more votes for change would be paid. The employment committee at this time suggests that the matter is addressed to the employment committee between the 2nd and 3rd.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u196	V.E.G. President. I bring here the opinion of the memory of the part on the job board on bill for the adjustment of customs law, No. 88/2005, with subsequent changes. It's about originated cheeses and milk milk. During the signing of agricultural contracts between the state and farms of 19 February 2016, Iceland and the EU had a signed agreement on agriculture trade from September 17, 2015. In 1st. This bill is one-sided suggested that changes be made on the basis of the earlier contract without any intervention. There will not be action on the part of the Icelandic government, nor will it be that the EU is willing to give it in return. The labour agreements and EU contracts were completed simultaneously from the Council on September 13, 2016 and realized that these issues were related to the opinion of the Council. A special property in this country is especially served by milk - processing stations at the Egls and in the Valley of Burgurs. The smaller portion is called attention to the effects of the changes involved in the bill of employment and based on these sites. Also consider the smaller portion to be just the right thing to say to the so - called specialist hearing of cheeses that compete in the same market as traditional bread cheeses, e.g. Gouda The Netherlands, Noord-Hollandse Gouda and Edam cheese. The European Commission decides that a total price will be set on a local bread plant, so it might be appropriate for the Icelandic products to cope with this changing situation. The European Environment Agency has changed to the worse since the signing of the customs contract. The minority feels that the contract should be canceled, so the case is unnecessary and suggests that it is not successful.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u197	A respectable president. I review it here that in the fall of 2016, we had a number of unusual circumstances in finishing our contracts and along with customs contracts. A campaign invitation had been offered, and it had not been possible to create a proper unit for the preparation of market agreements. So the Senate became the search for the media and the means to create for them a greater solidarity and peace. Hence, more than a part of the employment committee presented a detailed committee opinion. The article listed several factors that would be carried out by agrienvironmental ministers. We even went so far that we changed the provision of a livestock law where the order of a meeting group to be ensured for the initial review. Then came elections, and a new government did not actually begin until the beginning of 2017. So it was on the table of the agricultural minister to enforce the points made up of a greater part of the field committee. So I ask the chairman of the Committee here, why. paritaprevir The Njáll to Trausti Friðbertsson, about the outcome of these points, is made very clear in the majority opinion of why we were putting in the customs contract faster and what we expect. In the latter article, it says directly that along with the induction to speed up the validation of the decision, it is directed to the minister of access that the EU's internal market for dairy products will be accelerated as possible. So I ask why. Prominent: What is available for the formality of agrienvironmental ministers? Did he consult the Ministry of State about looking for compromises in favor of faster induction? This is a fundamental issue because all the factors in the Council's resolution to the payment of these agricultural contracts are equal. You can't pick from a buffet here. You can't take one thing out and leave all the others behind. It's all hanging out together. The Minister of Agriculture then sat, January and September 2017. paritaprevir So the Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, the daughter of Gunns, was responsible for these matters. However, there is a very narrow situation leading up to the autumn and almost impossible for agrienvironmental ministers to take place in December 2017, since the European Union's confirmation of this customs agreement had been made. The journey with that window was actually closed. That's why it is. The current agricultural adviser decides after two months of work to replace the assigned group of consultations and write a new letter for that group. I can quite inform that secret that I am the chairman of that group, one of two. This letter includes the points that the General concluded to be working on before the first revision. On February 7, 2018, he set the first point that the General concluded on 2016. So I want to direct it to the Committee, because of what. An authority actually called the case back to the committee, to be determined by the following: Was the general agreement? Has the work requested by the General? Many feel that the European Commission is taking little note of the committee's views here at the council. I'm going to bring it back to the highest. The former secretary of finance, Benedikt Jóhannesson, was very handsome when the Generals decided on the financial agendas we had last week on various issues of financial planning and responded to them very clearly. That's how I believe ministers should work. I don't think they're going to answer the points directed to the General. I just want to know before the last discussion of this case, was it the will of the Generals?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u198	Madam President. The Icelandic government signed a toll agreement with the European Union on agricultural products in the fall of 2015, as it is known, and the contract has become valid. It went into effect on May 1 of the past. The central category has been very active in the battle that this contract will be dismissed because of its smiles, especially because there was no assessment of the impact of the contract on Icelandic agricultural production, and the Central Party gave a pact proposal to cancel the contract. She hasn't been paid for. This specific matter, as discussed here, will be followed by a prompt treatment of terms in the contract. Surprisingly, it is absolutely necessary for the government to allow the European plant to penetrate here immediately on the first day at the same time and it seems quite impossible to open a greeting from Iceland into the EU into a special rush treatment. In this regard, there has been talk of failure in the legal process. It's just not right. When the livestock treaties were being discussed at the 2016 Parliament, it was stated that tolloving was to be accelerated. However, it is important to keep this in mind to speed up the production of dairy products from Iceland into the European market. The point is: The agreement was to be agreed on in this rather than on a one - sided basis. Hence, there were no legal adjustments at the time. So this is no mistake. A minister was appointed to promote mutuality in this case. If the European Union had agreed to open, e.g. for our scrawl, if it had been normal, it would have been faster. I can't see that this has even been discussed with the European Union. Like everything else in this whole case, this is a one - side administration by the government to the European Union at the expense of farmers in Iceland. This is not a correction of mistakes. The case is simply unmistakably clear that it is not about the interests of the Icelandic agricultural world. Madam President. Although there is little time, there is bound to be a brief discussion of the customs agreement in this context. Now that it has come into effect, it is vital to discuss how it will affect Icelandic agricultural production. What was the deal? How does the contract that Britain, our largest and best market area, will disappear from the contract next year as British exits from the European Union? I'm going to set up a few short points that I think clearly show that we didn't have enough of a contract for Iceland and how disturbing this deal is for Iceland. He does not reflect the size of markets. It has come to pass, and I have said it before in this discourse. Europe's market is about 500 million people. In Iceland, there are 350,000 of us. All fairness would recommend that in a contract such as this be taken into account in terms of the size of markets. It was, for example. conducted in 1995 by the International Business Agency on Agricultural Products. It's basic to make a contract that both parties can cooperate. It's not for this deal. It's just a fact. Second, no special assessment was made on the impact of the contract on domestic agricultural production. There's a lot of trouble with this deal. Everybody sees it. In international negotiation techniques, it is fundamental to have broad and good consultation with stakeholders. Madam President. Finally, I agree with what. paritaprevir The Njáll of Trausti Director Friðbertsson shows that it is necessary to go back to the case. Work committees between 2 and 3rd.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u199	A respectable president. As we do so, there are natural differences between opinions in the conference hall. I'm sorry, but I think this is an example of a situation that started with the wrong foot, a place that was only limping, and the preparations were not well prepared at the time of these contracts. However, I would like to state that, of course, the fine negotiators and their officials will advise, which this came, of course, did nothing but follow orders or the will of the minister who made negotiations, i.e. Agricultural ministers at that time, the current candidate of the forward party. As treaties reached, representatives of farmers came forward and complained about the lack of communication. It turned out that under the last one, there was little or no consultation with the leadership of farmers before the contract was signed. Is it very critical, especially to the rest of us who have a certain responsibility because we are on the other side of a minister, that we should not have received the correct information the whole time. Now we have this toll agreement, and it's unfortunate in many ways, it's not fair for Icelandic farmers. I also think that we have to face it, and those responsible, in the greater part of the employment committee at the time, 2016, that it was a huge mistake to ask for a minister, the one standing here, to move some of these cheese into the market earlier. It was all part of an agreement to complete the market agreements and toll agreements together. That was a very unfortunate bix. It was a problem, and we should just admit it. We're supposed to make sure this bill doesn't succeed here at the council. We are to admit that the contracts are against the European farmers and long - term Icelandic consumers. So we should reexamine the matter. As the year 2016 began to accomplish things that were required or booked, the Committee considered a major part of the employment committee. Several things were started, but not enough. It is true that this has shown that there was not enough work to deal with the European Union, since they were behind us in all of this and may not be able to change the agreement much at the time. Today, however, we are faced with a decision about what we will do with this evil situation, what we will do with this wicked deal. A lot of things have changed since they signed it, a lot of things. The status of agriculture is very different, especially that the place of sheep farmers is particularly twisted, but of course, the milk industry is also alert to protect itself. It's clear we can't ignore it. Besides them, it becomes evident that the understanding we put into our own uniqueity is clearly somewhat different. It's crystal clear that when you talk about a specialist in my mind, you're talking about cheeses like parmesan and something like that. We're not talking about regular Gouda-oosts and things like that, which are also on this list, along with some others on the list of tolls. We need to take a few steps back and wonder if we can take a look at this and learn from it, of course. A respectable president. This is a very small time given to discuss such a huge matter. I agree with those who have talked about the bill going to a committee between discussions, perhaps on other grounds. I think it is important that the committee review the matter again and wonder if there is just a reason to study the matter further and perhaps even to consider it. suggests a different type of adjustment, or just a return to the case to a minister, or whatever the case may be. The case is not ready for it to be settled here. What should we learn from this? Of course, we should learn from listening to our good friends, Icelandic farmers, when they have warned, and be also acknowledged that too much was gone.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u200	Madam President. When Iceland deals with other countries or contacts on important agreements, international agreements, the national interests are settled. The road was determined as to which interests were of enormous importance and who are less important in a particular context. It's done in many places, in electronics, in agriculture, in marine outlets, etc. At one time when treaties were made, one said that it was extremely important for Icelandic society to have easy access, including the following: that the European Union for Icelandic marine products and others were relaxed, including some of the agricultural sector. Then let's go back two years. I listen to senators talking about a bix that was here then, but then a deal was made. An election was mentioned. I see exactly what the Independence Party is about to do here. Could it be that when the consumers were not taken into account, they felt that the role of consumers and their viewpoint were needed while strengthening farmers who are not opposed and who want to continue to do so? Of course, that was why, at that time, a greater part of the employment committee agreed to the case in a way to allow this additional date for speciality, that was clear all the time, along with counter measures. What are the counter measures? Of course there were issues, but what were the counter measures? It was an entire agricultural contract of 16 billion. A review commission was arranged with the domestic agreement that I started with a minister and reorganized in the confusion of some independents, candidates, but it came to the viewpoint of consumers in that context. That was perfectly clear. In part, they were used to counter measures. But we also know that the State Department has the foreign trade, as has been observed in many cases. I can't help it if the Secretary of State has been more preoccupied with Bgret than with the interests of farmers. It must be just independence men who are dealing with their own locals, not pointing to something else. That's perfectly clear, my policy is perfectly clear. I believe in free open markets to back up even National production. We saw that when vegetarian farmers faced the opening of free markets at their time, with added support to vegan farmers, the share of Icelandic vegetable farmers grew from 80% to 90% because Icelandic agricultural products, including Icelandic vegetables, are in a very competitive position when compared with export products. We're not supposed to be afraid of it - except for all the innovations we've seen in the final losses in the agricultural sector, because it's coming from outside because we're in cooperation with the outside world. That is why research continues, innovation, excellent work, which leads to a greater variety of Icelandic cheese selections than ever, because it so happens that Icelanders go outside and study foreign products. Then they come home and are grateful to be able to walk in similar or similar words at home because they are Icelandic. We should trust ourselves in it. But to go on such exits as this case, to try to draw out a few tons because they're not specials, because it's part of Edam cheese that may be just like Gotli or whatever it is-- we should just take the whole package. That's why I object to the changes in this bill that more than a part of the employment committee wants to make. I would have wanted us to introduce it immediately, that the State Department immediately began a formal discussion with the United Kingdom on this matter, of course, with the support of the Sea Scourge and Agriculture Ministry. I don't believe anything but to the highest. Agricultural minister would support this. Then I think that independence is now back again when it comes to opening markets, freedoms, confidence markets, and increasing consumer protection, because it is now to be called in to professional committees between 2 and 3. It should not be, however, that the matter should be delayed for four years, to do so. Let us not forget that this agreement was signed in 2016. We've had two years of adjustment. We've had these two years, the market at home is being adjusted, and people were aware that it would open up. That adjustment has long begun. But I fear, and it is more appropriate now than ever before, that the pursuers of all countries have now joined themselves in this matter. Therefore, I fear that there will be a change between the 2nd and 3rd sieges. In this matter, in that state. And who are left behind with doubts about the matter? Yes, consumers again. Trust European consumers, trust Icelandic farmers to stand up and compete, this small, small competition that is being offered. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] She's not much. There is not much to ask. Just a little. [[The president calls.]] But the candidates here in the hall say no. The case should be stopped. That's too bad, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u201	Madam President. First, I want to say every word as it is. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir was saying, this is absolutely correct, and perhaps it's time to check that the production of cheeses in Iceland divides thousands of tons. This is to do in two steps something to be done at a single step according to the original bill, i.e. to open about 230 tons, or 115 tons, something about it, which is really weird. Why is this limitless fear of business in this country? I don't understand why. It's always the same reluctance, like whatnot. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir came in, trusting farmers and others in this country to have normal business dealings with the countries around us. Protectors are and have always been a terrible idea. They are not merely a dull idea in the sense that they reduce goods and dissatisfaction in business, but they are also often used as weapons in international partnerships, as we now see in the United States, in an effort to force conclusions on the basis of populism or nationalism. It may be strange to mention this in the context of customs of cheese, but it's all the same when you do well. In very rare cases, certain populism has been spoken of by groups of independence and exodus to farmers, as it is said. I understand, though, that farmers don't like it. This may be due, in part, to the promise that they were given the natural option of an export operation by means of this year's contract, to make a contract with the European Union for the evacuation. I've been asking a few questions about what happened to that deal. I understand that he will come in a small step that may be spread over four years. But okay. If we do this in four years, why did the government suggest a two - year change? Why wasn't it possible to stick to the original plan? Not that I'm very into doing this faster. I would have supported taking it down for a year and would actually back it up, but I understand that farmers are not happy, especially milk farmers. Maybe we should also be mutual in the cheese business, we should move out more of the cheeses. In France, the province is called Cognac, which has the patent right to the use of the term "cognac. " Many other areas have been patented by the use of some commonly used term for food. Why can't we have a patent on the use of the word "yet " as normal? Because the story is rather unique Icelandic product in its original form, although Finns is in mass production and America has begun to mimic it, there is a very popular product there. It's another one of those cases. Of course, agrienvironmental matters need to be done better in general. Part of it is going exactly the way that came into vegetable production about a year ago. The fear was that it would, for example, make up a lot of money. wipe out paprika when the tolls were removed. It certainly came down, but then the paprika grew back a lot and has been better equipped since. It could happen with the cheeses, too. Of course, we need to adjust our system slightly in order to meet everyone's key wishes in this regard. But then, in general, you talk about the agricultural system that we live in, which is a wonderfully strange system compared to the world's systems around us - I mentioned earlier that we did things in a very different way than the countries around us. We need to point this out thoroughly. That hasn't been logical. Farmers don't come out very well. The consumers don't come out too good from this system. I haven't noticed that the products are particularly useful in this system, so I don't know how much money is in the current system. Honestly, I don't understand. There seems to be a slight drop for all the benefit of this system. I'll support this case, but I'd like this to be done in a completely different way. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u202	Madam President. This case came to us on the job committee, where we received it as a solution. The thing is done fine, how it's done. I find it necessary to review and say here that we have a left green vote against the customs contract that is underlying here, and we warned very much of the consequences of bringing it in the way approved at the time. We were concerned about domestic production, although it could not compete with much larger markets abroad. Then came the commission from the then greater part of the employment committee with a will-to-be declaration that part of the contract would be hurried until the first year. It was then spoken of the origin of a custom that would not be produced here on land. It was also called opening a market in Europe, working together for dairy products. That's how that declaration of will looked. It has been a few years since, with little attention from those who were to follow these matters, until the case comes to pass for us and the present marine dignitary and agricultural minister will start working on this and propose a proposal to enforce the Declaration of Will. It contains only one part of the Declaration of Will, which is being spoken of as implementing it, for it is evident that when we on the job committee calls for visitors from both panels that nothing has been done in opening the markets for dairy products, which were part of this two - sided declaration, and working on counterimprovements to become more competitive. I believe there is good reason to take this matter back into the job committee in view of new information on how it is done. I am deeply worried, as I had when the customs contract was done in my time, by the competitive status of the Icelandic milk industry in these matters. I don't think there's much reason to go into this market for that kind of cheese, because it also became evident in the Committee that you can't tell about other cheeses like bread cheeses and other competitions. So there was no way to separate it under toll numbers that there was only a number of source-marked specialties not produced here in the country and to speed the introduction over the period, to take it in the first year. We tried to work on the case, as noted in the Committee's panel of more part of the employment committee, and to take it over to two years and conditions it would be defined in a number of ways, such as how this would affect the production within the country. But I believe that the matter is neglected and that we are to move slowly in these areas. In view of the information available between 2 and 3, it is very important that the employment committee reviews this matter again. I support the author of the matter and stress that it will be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u203	A respectable president. I surely agree to suggestions on taking the matter back into a committee and discussing it more fully. I've always been very skeptical about this bill as it is now. It's a contract now. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir speaks of the nation's total interest. Does not the agreement in force that should be included in the four years, taking into account the overall interests of the nation? Hv. A senator believes in Icelandic markets. I've got it too, but let's give him time to adapt. It's minimal. Oyster import is four times as long this year. If the bill goes through, the amount, as suggested at the outset, goes to 230 tons. The 11th. There are 93% of production in this country. As we discuss the matter, everyone will be surprised to learn that these are not just special cheeses. There are the Gouda cheeses that are being opened for, which are 80% of our production today. I think it's very important for the market to adapt. The European Commission of the European Environment Agency decides that all markets will be available on the local bread plant. It may be quite difficult for the Icelandic market and products to respond to such acceleration of undiminished competition. It's just a one-way decision to speed it up. I'm very much in favor of going back to the committee and thinking about these things a little bit better. We're talking about respect for consumers. I'd like to remind you that farmers are natural, like Icelandic consumers and part of the market, so I think it's something special when they're always being taken out of parentheses like they're some kind of alien. I really believe that the situation will come back to us, and we'll think about it a little bit more, and we'll let the deal warm up. Four years is a moment, not a long time, but it can be the scope needed by Icelandic farmers and producers. I'm not sure they've wanted to, because there's no ban on anything here. I think it's a little introduced, so we're stopping some import, but it's just not. I think we can handle these matters completely differently without everything going to a fire or something stopping us. But I really support that the case goes back to the committee and hope that we can work out a better solution for this matter. I just hope there's a conclusion on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u204	Madam President. One of the best I know is Gouda with mustard and bulby beer on the side. How wonderful that is! I challenge the Senate to name something that can be better on a summer afternoon than I know it. I wondered: " Why am I being robbed of that pleasure? [[Up front.]] - Yeah. I'm just asking, why are we limiting our imports? Why are we so scared? Why are we trying to close our society rather than open it more? I'm gonna roll up one thing. I'm a writer, and I'm going to think about a certain κscenario. I like all kinds of science fiction and weird fiction. I'm going to think of a scene. What if a group of Icelandic writers resorted to special translations in the Icelandic edition? Would you say: "We are going to limit a number of translation jobs to make sure that Icelandic writers have enough markets to sell their works on? I'm just gonna ask you a question right now: Would the market get bigger? Would he grow bigger? Would Icelanders read more? Would the publication flourish? No, it would not, for the Icelanders would soon turn to other products. The solution is never shutting things down. The only problem with this is that it doesn't go far enough, we're supposed to go much further, and we're not supposed to be afraid. We're not losers. We're Icelanders.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u205	A respectable president. Although I had no intention of speaking about this matter, I was moved to come here as a child to remind me of certain things. I have to say, I'm a little thought after a speech. paritaprevir Snæbjörn's Brynjarsson. I've never approved of being such an ethnic child that we're not losers, but we are Icelanders, whether they want to import goods or lower products or to drop tolls from the lips, or others. I came up with the same argument in last night's discussions about interest and insurance. I actually like cheeses, even though I don't have beer on my side and I hope it's cool. A senator does not demand, which is his dream to enjoy the cheese. I'm going to take less of it, though. A senator will be able to do so because the import is not being spoken of. They're not talking about blocking him, they're talking about how quickly to import topotecan. Tollvota, which is agreed to enter in in four years, is to be taken over two years, such as winter. A professional health committee has suggested, or how to do this? I've come up here least because of what to say. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthyr, where he spoke of cheese and domestic cheese production. It seemed to me that way. Senator, I'm sorry he's not here in the audience, that it's not a big deal. Of course, it is always a matter of view. However, I'd like to keep it up, so it has been said in this discussion that according to the agreement under this category, and only a discussion of how quickly to meet and import will increase toll free import of cheese by 510 tons when the contract is fully implemented. This import corresponds to about 8.3% of the size of the Icelandic cheese market in quantity and 10.9% of value. That's real numbers. I want people to keep that in mind. Teeth loss, it's always hard to appreciate. This has been measured by a range of 1,200, selections of over a thousand million. K. Every year. I'm not going to confirm or challenge those numbers. It's clear that this isn't some small thing, that's what I want to draw out here. And then I'm going to cut the same knees I've done in the past when it's considered to be gardening and general custom. The gardening industry is often used as an example of how poor Iceland is. It is now good for competition when the import is opened. Then I'm also going to remind you that, without me seeing, as I said in the beginning, I disagree that Icelanders are a bunch of losers. I think the Icelanders are as different as they are many. But I just want to think about what was done at the time when customs of vegetables were dropped, such as winters. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín, the daughter of Gunnarsdóttir, was only included in his talk. As a result, we still have a structure. But I don't think it's easy to deny that it is due to much of the counter measures taken. In particular, I look to the fact that if nothing had to be done, there would be a risk of reducing these areas of agriculture. A contract was made with gardeners, which included bone pay, support for new investors, superintendents of older management units, as well as electrical subsidies. We still have contributions to our garden of Eden for hundreds of millions. I present these facts so that we are discussing the same things when we take our stand on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u206	President. I just want to put into words the fine tax agreement discussed here. I think it was in 1958 that the Cheese and Butter Sale was founded. In fact, since 1924, if I recall correctly, I had won cheese in Lakbui's Flea, U.S.A. But in 1958 there were two or four species available, including Gouda cheese, which I heard at the time. A senator likes it so much and described it earlier. He doesn't even need Belgium to eat it. We move in with some ale, so we can get the feeling that it is. A senator was so brilliant earlier. Today, 60 years later, however, Britain is being produced in Iceland, probably in another hundred if not in a third hundred kinds of cheese. I think there's a search in other such vegetation in some production in Iceland and in the dairy industry. We are talking about the customs agreement made in 2015, which was to be about special transport. As I see a lot of people facing me, I don't find it boring to eat cheese more than anything, and I am a very sincere fan of cheese. In 2015 we were told that the agreement made with the Great European Union was about the most special. A man envisioned cheeses like Gruyère, Rochefort, Celeta, and something like that, but then you start to read the appendix to the agreement that is found here in front of me. Then there are old and good acquaintances, who are both Gouda and Edam and such cheeses, who are clean and unsettled. On the contrary, they are produced here in considerable quantities. What we were told back then was only a backdrop. On the other hand, it is an enormous quantity laid down here. That's a huge percentage of what we ourselves are making. Now I'll agree with it as soon as possible. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir earlier said that treaties are not due to our special interest but to the nation's total interest. I'll agree with that. I feel, however, that the contract, as it is afforded, is like a tailor-maker for Icelandic immigrants. I think they couldn't have done better if they had written that list themselves. So I'm not quite that the art of war is supposed to contribute to the overall interest, it's just for the sake of special interest. We know that the greatly increased import of agrienvironmental products that we have seen in recent years has not led to a lower price of these products, although in some cases both quantity and prices have been reduced, i.e. that the state gave up after two thirds. Yet, this has not been enough to reduce the product prices on these products. So it's not entirely lonely that it would happen, even though we would pour it all into one roll in four years. Since I am a sincere spokesman for a small price, have held the great slaughter here, and have written many articles, and do not tell me that it is the right way, I think in this matter now it would be right for the committee to take this case back to him and take it a little more seriously. As it is now over, I don't feel that it is in the spirit of the contract that was introduced to us back in 2015. So I suggest that the committee take the matter to heart and discuss it carefully so that we can get better results from it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u207	A respectable president. This issue, this bill, is a terrible thing to do, and I worry that at the end of Congress, people will think of doing it. The toll deal referred to was bad enough myself. It's a terrible thing, actually. The story behind the way he came into existence has been traced here before, and perhaps there is no need to go further into it. He's not qualified to protect Iceland's interests, I'm not talking about Icelandic farmers and food plants, and thus the interests of the Icelandic and Icelandic people. The idea of making the contract worse or, rather, to speed up the negative and dangerous effects of the agreement in particular and one - sided is bizarre. And that it should be proposed by the representatives of all classes, except for members of the Central Party, why. paritaprevir The Sigurður of Páll Jónsson, a professional committee, surprises me very much. Fortunately, I have heard only another tone in the past during the discussion, and hopefully the matter will go back to the Committee, and men will look at it better. It is hard to believe that right at the end of Congress, a matter is almost blocked by one of the basics of the country's work, a work programme that has had to go through the last year, a business that is presented in the government's financial programme, is the only thing that the government directly assumes to the loss of the nigrass that we use each year. Then I'm gonna give you a complete one-sided suggestion that Iceland will yield the rights that were negotiated in a bad contract. How's it going to get this way, Mr. Honorable President? You must wonder. How could anyone think of dealing with a foreign country to decide one way to give away the value of this protection if it was so important to give in response to this protection? Why, then, was there something against you? I don't know which other developed countries would think of going forward in a way that would throw away the one - sided value, weaken the position of their own jobs on a one - sided basis, and receive nothing back. In particular, in customs, where there have been over 100 years of discussions between nations over how to support business transactions and make free trade agreements, often twofold throughout the international community, the efforts have been made to obtain something for what they give away. So here is a proposal from the representatives of all classes except the Central Party, where men simply suggest that these valuables be cast out, that we give them away one-sided, do not even use the situation to make sure that Icelandic farmers get something back. This is totally incomprehensible, respectable President. I'm glad to hear that most people who have spoken before suggest that the committee take the matter back. There are a lot of things to take a closer look at in this suggestion, and I suppose it will take a considerable amount of time to make this happen, but as noted, the members of the Central Party feel that it is normal to resign the toll agreement referred to but not the speed of its induction, is crucial to the fact that the contract was made and was not good when they were made at the time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u208	Mr. President. I wish as an executive of the case to retract the proposed adjustment. I request a meeting on a job committee between 2 and 3rd. to discuss the following in the case where a different suggestion can be taken.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u209	Mr. President. I'm sure I'd like to be met by the manager of the case from the Committee on Professional Affairs meeting on this matter. I have high hopes that the majority of the segments at Congress will be at the original bill so that more things will not delay the execution of the case. I believe that there are still some liberal embezzlement in the greater part that will support the withdrawal of the adjustment proposal and the original bill. That is why I firmly support the request of a prominent speaker and am ready to discuss the matter afterward.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u210	A respectable president. As the people here should be aware, the Central Party has serious doubts about the matter and is opposed, but it is well pleased to think that it will go to a committee between 2 and 3. We're going to sit next to the tip of this case, don't go against it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-77.u211	V.E.G. President. I rejoice and support a proposal, that this matter will be sent to the committee, and that it will be examined there in detail.
