ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u1	Borist has a letter from the 6th. That's the north side. "Negi Njáll's Trausti, " says Friðbertsson, "that he will not be able to do any congregational work in the near future. So yesterday, on Monday, May 7, took his place at the General Assembly as his assistant Valgerður Gunnarsdóttir. Valgerður's Gunnarsdóttir's choice has already taken her place at the General Assembly, and she is welcome to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u2	In a letter dated May 7, 2018, the president has requested this, according to the 8th number of 1st. 13th par. Congress, with the Commission and Control Committee that it deals with the following reports: national health care; State attorney; State Department; commitment agreements to eight hearing agreements; agreements on youth service and college research proposals.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u3	Borist has received a letter from the Minister of Justice requesting every appointment to provide a written answer to a covering query. 763, for the multitude of those seeking refuge, and for the days of their residence in this land, from Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Is remnant. There have also been three letters received from a health minister asking for every request to give written answers to inquiries. 742, about the estimated cost of construction at the Ring Road Hospital, from Ólafur Ísleifsson, to thesk. 743, on the need for analysis of the construction of the Land Hospital on Ring Road, from Ólafur Ísleifsson, and on the threshing floor. 735 of the public work outside the capital area, from the Halla of Signý's Kristjánsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u4	There are: health ministers, foreign ministers, Ministers of Justice and Environment and Resource Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u5	Mr. President. It is safe to say that the recent scientific report on climate change is carbon dioxide. It is so black that we cannot afford to discuss it from the pits. Rather, we must make a wide deal of peace within the council on how to act in this vital issue. Clearly, the objective of the Paris Convention is not going to be successful, so countries must take on increased commitments - and Iceland is not even reaching that goal. There will be a direct increase of up to 99% in the year 2030 unless radical measures are under attack. The report identifies three people who seem to have done particularly well and who do not have the State among them. It's the road, the Landactivation and the city of Reykjavík. The capital area is now about 64% of its population and estimated that there will be an increase of 70,000 inhabitants to 2040, except for the 2 million tourists who travel here each year. It is therefore urgent to solve the transport issues of the capital area in particular. The release of fossil fuels is, in fact, the most important factor in climate change and man - made activities is also a major cause of convergence. The density and the urban line are a major factor in the battle of Reykjavík's battle against climate change, and it is only odd that the government's irrefutable support for the city's plans is involved when it comes to major issues. The political treaty's objectives on climate cannot be met unless larger measures are taken in public transport. It's the highest. A minister would agree with me on that? In what ways will the government support Reykjavík and other towns in the capital area? Will the government take part in financing the largest environmental project in Iceland, the city line? [[Foreground on: No.]] And they find the highest. The financial secretary of a financial plan is clear enough when it comes to this?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u6	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for the inquiry. If I'm not mistaken, I think he called me a financial minister, which is now entirely by the book, but we accept for now. I'd like to start by saying something with a what. A senator's request for a report by the Ministry and is the third scientific report produced in Iceland on climate change, directed by Iceland's National Weather Service, paints the impression that there has been a considerable change in climate change, biodiversity, and also on figological factors such as glaciers, and is expected here to be changes that we need to look into in the future. More important, although we need to reduce emissions in order to prevent changes, Iceland also needs to adapt to climate change. There we are part of the international community, where the government, now in power, has taken the Polish population to follow European nations, like cognizant. A senator knows, by aiming for a 40% contraction in 2030 to emissions of greenhouse gases, but he goes further in 2040 and achieves what is called a carbon - sharement. In my Ministry, we're working on a program to deal with these issues and in particular Iceland's commitment to the Paris Convention. A new climate adviser will then be assigned to examine the ways in which we find ourselves in the absence of carbon, but it is clear that we need to be effective in these areas. I'll be better able to find some special questions in the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u7	Mr. President. I'm waiting for the highest. Ministers apologize for the error, but they have to admit that I would sleep a little calmer if he was a financial minister. It is good to flaunt high goals. We can't even get this 40% and what we can do with certain nothing of carbon, but here I am talking about the city line, I'm talking about making the more efficient environment, more efficient because it's where we're most going to go when it comes to climate. So I ask, and I want the answer: What funds are to be set aside for this assignment? How much is the amount, and how will it spread during the period? The financial agenda is very vague and, in fact, all statements are very vague. But we need the answer to this most important work of our day in climate.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u8	V.E.G. President. As for urban and transport in general, when it comes to climate, I wholeheartedly agree that there are major projects ahead of us, especially about the electricality of the car fleet that I think is our next major project. But to ask a particular question. The councilman on the city line is absolutely aware that it is the government's will to consider these matters with the city, as has been shown here in the commercial sales of the Generals, both with those present and also with the secretary of transportation. Regarding the way this is presented in a financial program: What is involved in my financial agenda is not taking particular action on the city line, but it does not hear my ministry in that way. The funds produced by a financial programme in the climate are more than we have seen so far and will have fewer than 7 billion in the next five years to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and bind carbon in soil and vegetation. [[The president calls.]] That's what's about saying about my Ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u9	President. For over 20 years, Claire's home service has been the home service of patients for serious illnesses. Some 300 people a year have been privileged to enjoy the services of the company's nurses, but in many cases it is the final life treatment of those with cancer. Claims' home service, however, is much more than just nursing. Treating patients at home reduces the pressures of health care and hospitals, especially in the Cancer Department of the Land Hospital and the home care of the Land Hospital. Karitas treats patients in a much more personal way than can be done in hospitals and also reduces the pressure of those who use the ministry. During the fall, this home service will remain unsatisfactory. Karitas' treaties with Iceland's Medical Insurance ran out last spring, and nothing has been cleared up in Iceland's contracts on continued cooperation. Changes Karitas would like to make on contracts, so it reflects more on reality, have not been given a sound base in Iceland's Medical Insurance. So I ask the highest. Minister: What's the minister's position on Claire's home service? Do you want to negotiate with the company for continued activity? Which one wants the highest. Ministers will continue to see this service with private members who have done it by grace or by health care and/or by Hospital? More important, if Claire's activity falls from September 1, 2018, what will replace him? What will a minister do with increased pressures and costs that will come to a relapse in the fall of land hospitals and health care? Karita's expertise in palliative and life - stopping therapy spans over 20 years. How will a minister prevent this knowledge from simply disappearing when the work stops in the fall?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u10	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. First of all, to answer that my direct light in all such subjects is to be careful that our service is not impaired. Of course, that's the objective of number one, two and three, and is often quite challenging when it comes to negotiations with parties and contracts made by the Medical Insurance of Iceland to buy health care is over 200, as is the case today. Karitas has resigned his contract, as it stands, and in fact requested an interview with the Ministry for the position that has come up. What we hear under the Ministry and my office is to make sure that if Karital's contract expires, then the National Hospital and Health Care Department will take over and there will be no breach in that service. That, of course, is the primary objective. We need to review the situation with our experts. In case of a moment. A senator is considering the cost of the ministry if the result was that it would move to a land hospital and/or health care, it would be the natural resources that are now in the contracts.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u11	President. There is now a definite pattern of action that could indicate that there is a change in health care issues in Iceland. We'll see about the ambulance business, GET and Faith Force, and now Kaitas. Is it going to the top? Minister to the health - care sector in increasing numbers? If so, does a minister consider it beneficial to make changes in the procedures of health care without formal policy becoming established and discussed? If this is not a policy change, why are the continued activities of Claire on contracts with Iceland's Medical Insurance? Is not the director of Iceland's Medical Insurance Enforcement to enforce policy. Minister of the House?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u12	A respectable president. The work of Iceland's Medical Insurance is to handle certain contracts, including the agreement under which this is due. It is not that any contract and the basis of the agreement should be implemented; not with this agreement, as it would be clear that the person being represented here would not be doing much else. Iceland's health insurance has a role and it's to be cared for and done. On the other hand, we have received a report from the National Reconclusion that may not be as well - mannered as we would like to see. We want to see that this is done in a specific way. In case of a moment. A senator may see a change of pace, perhaps wanting to put it into words, as if the change in policy was that my main concern would be to try to keep the overall picture in all my decisions. That's what I'm trying to do. And to make sure that the service and unity are done in it and that the patients are safe.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u13	V.E.G. President. I want to go to the highest. Secretary of state, explaining a certain wording. As most of us know, the European Union's discussion ended here a few years ago, the discussion actually ended. As we know, controversy arose over the matter. However, we do know that certain groups have wanted to apply and even enter this relationship. One group has flirted with these things that are left green, cut out and down. In a report presented to us by the Minister, this recent publication, entitled Walking for the Benefits of the EEA Convention, has included the European Union and the procedure that took place and the fact that we stopped being an applicant. However, the text recommends a tone that I have not heard before, and I would like to ask the minister if there is something going on in the Ministry on his watch, whether there is something to relax in faith that we should not be in the European Union. On page 18. 13 says by permission of the president: ▪ A few years later, the EU government announced that there had been a complete break in the discussion... What's a complete pause? I thought either there was a break or no pause. Is the minister suggesting something else in this publication -- and I ask them: Is it part of the course of these administrations to have spoken in this way that there is no clear reason that we are not a candidate state and that we will not become an candidate state in the near future? When the discussion was terminated - if you want to use it, of course - it was clear that there was nothing left of this process. That was very clear too. The letter given to the representatives of the European Union left no doubt as well as the letter of prime minister. So we must ask, What is the meaning of a complete pause?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u14	A respectable president. I've been expecting some questions at a Senate Hall, but I didn't quite expect to be asked if I was interested in Iceland's becoming a member of the European Union. [[Up front.]] A man tries to prepare for things, but I wonder what it is that makes someone sick. A senator can think of this. In terms of unique expressions, however, there is no doubt about it. A senator was naturally well acquainted with how these matters were handled in his day, and he was then a foreign minister. I have found no interest in my colleagues'groups in flirting with members of the European Union, let alone going further. I thought I had spoken more clearly when it comes to what I believe in in in the European Union, but it's obvious that you need to talk more clearly than you have. To inform them. A senator thought it would be extremely unwise for Iceland to become a member of the European Union. Right away. A senator examines this report to see that the consequences were more serious than those who are conscious of such a course. We try to correct matters as much as possible. But if someone gets unconcerned about the fact that the person standing here is not interested in Iceland, a party becomes the European Union, it is just another incentive for me to talk more clearly about these matters. I'll try to do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u15	A respectable president. That's exactly why I'm bringing this up. V.E.G. To this end, a minister has been quite clear. That is why I wondered how such a word game or what it's called, as it is a complete recession, is able to access the secretary's report. You have wondered, " Has this text accidentally slipped past the minister's eyes when the report was being prepared instead of some sort of change of direction? ' I'm going to allow myself to interpret it, so I'm going to the highest. Ministers still believe that Iceland is the best city outside the European Union. On the other hand, we must ask ourselves, " Is it not unfortunate when a minister brings in a report into the Council, where words can come up that may promote other ideas, such as complete recess, unless there are some other interpretations? In fact, I did not find out what a complete pause means. I don't know if there is a definition there. I thought it was just a recess. So I interpret the words of the Minister of this hearing so that this government feels the same way as the first, that we have no business in the European Union, and this expression somehow spread through the Ministry officials.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u16	A respectable president. Just so it's clear: It's not that one accidentally falls into the European Union. It must be the policy of the respective government and the more objective of applying, at least. I can assure you what. Congress officials and others that there is no need to worry that the Icelandic nation will wake up one day and have accidentally slipped into the European Union. Nothing's happening. In terms of wording in reports, I assume that this is taken in line with the wording that was in place when men did so. I was not in charge of the minister of foreign affairs. Since then, there have been two governments. Neither had a plan to apply for membership in the European Union. No one has mentioned to me from members of the administrations that it is wise or desirable to think about becoming a member of the European Union. I'm sure that's not a policy plan for this government. I can absolutely assure you what. That's what a senator's got to do with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u17	A respectable president. I'm going to turn a inquiry to the highest level. Healthcare Minister on waiting list. The reason I'm asking about this now is because I was reminded of it recently by someone who asked what should be done on a waiting list. He's got medium income, 89 million a year, the operation costs a million, and I call it saving the money and throwing the dollar away. I had the same experience over 20 years ago. Then I calculated that it took only one fifth to operate on me, but it was said, "No." The insurance company wanted to do this, and they said, "No, you can't do it on your own, you're on a waiting list for a year, and you're just gonna have to suffer there. You see, I was not hurt right. It's like, in Iceland, if you don't get hurt right, you're in a kind of prison where you're supposed to be suffering for a year, even two, three years. How can it be possible that at the same time, e.g. 24 persons this year, just the rest of the year, on their way to Sweden for an operation that could have been done on 75 people at home for the same money? It's been 20 years since I was on the wait list and there's no change, if something's worse, and I ask if there's no change: is this government's policy that after 20 years the situation or even worse? That's why I'm asking a minister, "What's going on in the court list?" and what's the policy?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u18	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry, especially because of its urgency and importance. This was shown in the case of a man. A senator, in fact, has been in Iceland for a very long time, for a very long time. I have only served as a health minister for less than six months, but I believe that the situation is unacceptable. I believe that the primary medical system cannot be known for the fact that people are starving, during weeks and months, on the waiting list for an operation. Then there's something wrong in our system. There is something that is wrong with how people organize their priorities on the list. We have made a lot of money available to what has been called a waiting list campaign for several years and will continue to do so. But in my opinion, the results aren't great enough. For this reason, I have requested ten days ago, to get suggestions on how those hospitals who have been taking care of these actions can better work together strings on how the waiting lists are put together, what priorities are on them, and possibly that it should be determined in a designated location for the actions most urgent because of the person's poor suffering and inability to rest. I wait for these suggestions, hoping to get them by the end of the month. I agree with the senator that this is something we cannot endure in our welfare society and not where the health system is to be at the top. [[The president calls.]] I also believe that there will be no simple solution.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u19	A respectable president. I thank the Minister for the answers. Today's waiting lists, 3,400 waiting for surgery at the Land Hospital, of which 1,428, or 42% longer than 90 days. 709 patients on the waiting list in February after replacement surgery and 385 patients waiting for hip replacement surgery. Waiting time for a nursing home has increased. There, 30% of men and 40% of women have waited for more than 90 days. A surgeon's office in November, 365 were waiting for a medical facility. We've also brought people with alzheimer, 200 people waiting for service. Waiting lists are extending everywhere. I'll say it exactly as it is - it's ten to 20 times worse to wait on a waiting list than to have the operation itself or the accident. Something has to be done. It is not acceptable to judge people by how they hurt, how long they should suffer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u20	A respectable president. Once again, I thank the senator for the question. I agree that this matter needs to be kept very closely on the program. Hv. A senator also asks for a waiting list for nurses. In a new financial program, which I hope the council will be culminating in a positive way, in addition to the building of new nurses, we are addressing that factor, i.e. with the goal of shortening the waiting period for medical care significantly during the five years of financial planning. It affects the whole system. It affects Land Hospital, etc. But most important, perhaps primarily, is the effect of reducing people's feelings, i.e. People who live in pain and pain, such as whales. A senator rightly points out. I know why. A senator also shares with me that the other side of this coin is, in fact, the discussion of painkillers and hypnotics, etc. More often than not, such medications are for reasons. [[The president calls.]] Sometimes the reason is too long and unacceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u21	Mr. President. I'd like to direct a question to the highest. Minister of Justice. One of the big matters that have been waiting for here for a long time is a bill for a new personal protection law, which is intended to introduce the EU personal protection principle, short-term GDPR. Job life and institutions have been fully equipped to see that this will take effect in springtime. The bill has not yet been submitted to the General Assembly, although the Minister's Office has been treated for several hours, at least ... ofa singleelection. The Norwegian Council received its bill from the Norwegian government at the end of March, is dealing with it and is acting on a committee. The Senate intends to take care of the situation now at the month's convention if I have understood it correctly. This is a rule throughout Europe. It's very serious if it becomes a problem in Iceland compared with other European countries. Also, it has for a very long time been completely aware that the date of the reference is May 25, so it is surprising to no one. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister: How is this delay? Why on earth is this bill not put before the council for discussion? In view of the time that we have to discuss, does the CIA respect to take in such a big matter so late?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u22	A respectable president. The background of this case is that in 2016 the European Union adopted a personal protection directive. So there has been a need to adopt this directive in the EEA Convention. The EEA, the EFTA countries, is obliged to adopt this Regulation. Unlike the types that the EFTA countries usually record on the basis of the EEA team, this Regulation, as I call it, is not an directive. This means that the Regulation itself must be implemented into the EEA correctly as it happens entirely unchanged. So it has been clear since 2016 that the materials in this preparation were made. Iceland has maintained its interests in this, in terms of government sovereignty in these matters, and made note that Iceland is expected to be involved in the European Environmental Protection Agency without voting rights there instead of supporting the so-called two-found system that we usually do when we work together as this in the EEA. However, it went after getting the European Union to accept that these were very special circumstances, and there would be no precedent in the future. In a special declaration by other EFTA countries and the European Commission, Iceland agreed to participate in the implementation of the Regulation in the process of participating in this European Personal Protection Agency. It wasn't until the New Year's Eve. On the other hand, the bill is recently completed at the Ministry of Justice, has been at financial cost, and has been lectured by the Ministry of Presidency. I intend to present it to the Council in the days ahead.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u23	Mr. President. I thank the minister for his answer, and I eagerly wait to find out what the next few days are. The Congress is now taking a break for a few hours, but I get it so that we're talking about in the next two or three days. I wish them to the highest. A minister would explain it better if it wasn't. However, a minister introduced a remarkable issue that is the solution to the establishment of the system of things. A great many generals, including myself, are very interested in the constitution, the link between the Constitution and the EEA Convention. Therefore, I feel that if it is expected that the General will administer this arrangement in a kind of hurry - treatment or without having enough time to discuss the so - called one - substance solution, I will not be afraid. Many big words have fallen here in this hall and beyond the seriousness of Iceland's putting herself under the control of the European Union in various areas. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That is why I feel that we are quick to think about the short time to handle these matters carefully and carefully.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u24	A respectable president. I've called the World Congress to its attention that this bill has been in the confidentiality since January. So they have been able to study its contents. I want to draw attention to what, too. A senator with whom I know he knows well that a bill for the implementation of the European Union will not be even put before the Council itself has been adopted into the EEA Convention. This happens at a meeting of the EEA joint committee. The case has not been on her program so far. It has, among other things, been identified as "the true God, " and is" the God of all creation. " Coasted in the European Union itself, the Commission. There hasn't been a delay in Iceland's affairs. The last change in the case is that there may be some shuffling on it on the part of other EFTA countries. It is not the custody of the Icelanders to continue running the case there. But I completely agree with what. A member of the Parliament that one supporting system is hardly an acceptable introduction to the European Union's production. So we kept the views of the Icelanders on the sovereignty and the dual support system very high in this work and eventually got it documented. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u25	Mr. President. I want to make it a subject of young addicts' position in Iceland today. The situation is that two children's Institutes for Children's Health as a total of 10 people are expelled. There are six rooms in emergency care, three boys' space, two girls' space, and one so-called custody or special mission space, both for juvenile addicts and children and adolescents with other problems. The treatment department then has six spots. It's not reserved for the sex, so it's just the application order. There has been a constant waiting list. Mr. President. This year alone, more than 20 times it has been possible to receive children in dire need of BUGL's emergency, of which 15 times just in March. V.E.G. Secretary of health. It's like if the U.S. emergency departments told to injured individuals who brought an ambulance to see that, unfortunately, they'd just be closed. These are children in dire need only for emergency care. You can just grab them so hard that they'll be rescued, but unfortunately, there's no room in Iceland. I remind Congress of the world and the highest. Minister, we're talking about children under 18 years of age. V.E.G. Minister. It's out of the question. The Icelandic government has to do better than that. So I ask you, are there plans on your tables that will deal with this crisis that we face? I'm waiting for the highest. Minister in all sincerity not to give an answer that the matter is in consultation, that it is planned for a conversation, or that the invitation is coming. These children are on the line, and I'd like to make a clear answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u26	A respectable president. I'm sorry to cause it. A senator disappointed, but now it's time for the National Hospital to study the National Institute of College, Children's Children's Health, the Ministry of Health, the Health, the Psychiatry, the Ovenbogas, and the U.S.A. to settle over the matter. I guess that's what it is. A senator calls a consultation process, and he doesn't like it enough. But the goal is to get a lab together, instead of creating a group of workers who should leave behind a long time, since this group would cover that job in the lab for one day at the end of May to set up a solution recommendation. I agree with what. A senator that this is a task that cannot be requested, and especially in the presence of a U.S.A. declaration that they will not act on an illegal person any further, although they did say that they would bridge the gap if it did. We have stressed that this is an urgent matter, both myself and the Department of Social Affairs. We have set it high on schedule. We have a number of assignments to face and respond to them. Both immediate and long - term tasks are thought - out because these issues will not be resolved with any of the rioting or rioting. I hope, sir, a respectable president, that the factory I made this account is a way of finding a solution, because it's going to be the whole party coming to the table and all these people coming to the table to exchange their opinions on real tools, real measures because we're already over the fact that this is about policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u27	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. What are we going to do today? Yeah, I was disappointed, I just have to admit it. And I have to say, I was also disappointed in the Supreme Court. In some way, a minister would make it appear that this was a special interest in the senator. Of course, when there is no clear answer, you will be disappointed and may begin to sit down and consider how to react. For 15 times, children in dire need had to disappear from BUGL, from emergency care, just in March. They're kids in so much trouble that we can't let this go on a long way to talk about it. With all due respect for consultation procedures, we need to respond now. There is something to be done so that children who bring a police or ambulance to the emergency room are not being referred to and saved in a prison cell at the Naffs Street police station. Excuse me, chief. Minister, I'm concerned about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u28	A respectable president. What I was introducing to you in the past is, not a long way of speaking, but a work meeting that will be held right now at the end of the month in order to act quickly. I want less of that, too. A senator assumes that we are all responsible for thinking about a solution to this matter. I apologize to her if I've given up the fact that I think these were her pet interest issues because, fortunately, this is the subject of all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u29	Mr. President. Last week, I encouraged the highest. To make room for a government bill to fix a mess that became last year on customs-free goodbyes. There's still no sign of a bill from the government. I understand that the bill is trapped in some of the government's forward strategists. Now it is important that we remember that consumers are being loaded. It's a big deal, consumer business. Instead of advertising 37 tons of special cheese on May 1, the government was to advertise 140 tons. The consumers are being loaded. On the job committee, we were ready for the case. We had already considered it with stakeholders and the Ministry, all set, but then the orders came: The minister was going to deliver the bill himself. Fine. Good. But there's no sign of a bill. It was held out to the hands on the edge of the night. Work committee led by what? paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, but on the part of the government, nothing has happened. Where's the thing? Where's the thing? Once again, we see that consumer views are views that are always repetitive to this government. [[The president calls.]] It's time to end. I want the case on the council's table. We've got one day to take care of it for consumers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u30	Mr. President. I want to say something. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín, Gunnarsdóttir's daughter. These issues are, in fact, amazing. Less than three years ago, a landmark agreement with the European Union was made to provide significant support for the import of agrienvironmental products against the marketing of our own agriculture, an important market market market. At the same time, shortly after the implementation of this contract, a re-evaluation of the fixed-up contract was made exactly to support the agriculture in the light of the changes that would take place in this case, but when it comes to our own resources, it should not fail that the government of the three forward groups will act at every level of the case, whether it is spoken of when the import of raw meat or anything else. When you are helping your tollovates about meat, you should suddenly weigh it with a bone to reduce its effect. And here again and again, nothing is in the spoken cheese. It is clear that at every opportunity this government gets, the consumers are the players. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u31	Mr. President. I just want to come up here and say the word with what. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir on this big business of consumers' import frozen cheese. This is simple correction. There was a clear will in the last council on this matter, and it has long been known that there is a hurry to settle it and that it is simply a disgrace that has not been completed, as the committee claimed, would have been done, and I thought there was a solid agreement. I hope the case gets back in here immediately and even gets picked up tomorrow. I'm sure a World of Congress will help to get the matter through quickly and safely.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u32	A respectable president. I must express my frustrations in the context of that. According to the Senate, there is a shortage of lawsuits. From this point on, the program unprepared queries showed that the general data protection bill will not be present today but, like the highest level. Minister of Justice said, in the next few days. It's interesting to me, since I'm particularly interested in grammar, that there's a word in the plural. However, there is only one day left of meetings until May 25, that is the assembly meeting tomorrow. If the matter does not enter today, which is clearly in accordance with the schedule that if it comes in tomorrow, I fear that it will not be brought to the committee and therefore will not be sent to report. That means they can't even get custody of parties outside this council at this time. That is totally independent of what is being done in general about the EEA. It must have been clear before, after all the discussion on the importance of the matter, that the matter needs to be made to the council, that the matter needs to be discussed. [[The president calls.]] I said earlier this year that I wasn't worried that we'd accept this too late, but that we'd do it badly. Now I'm worried about both, I think we'll do it too late and too bad.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u33	Mr. President. I have to come up here and agree with what. my colleague, especially in the matter of inadequacy. Now that we're listing things that are urgent and will not be completed by intermission, I have to mention the overall review of a law of restoration. As may have been known by members of the council, they would have had to be revised before local elections so that individuals who had been convicted could possibly get a vote. We know that it violates the human rights of the individual that an untimely disqualification of a ballot was involved and that it considered a great priority to correct this matter a few months ago. It is possible - as with other matters mentioned here, and in particular the customs and this case - a matter that the government feels uncomfortable and does not particularly want to talk about in relation to elections and, as a result, lets go down so that the discussion won't be too much. So I remind myself here that this has not yet been fulfilled, and thus prisoners'rights are ignored.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u34	Mr. President. I'm going to say the word. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir regarding this toll language. In a professional case, this would be a determined offense. This is an urgent consumer case, and our reputation is being damaged how we in a spirit of Precinctness get in the way of the treaties we've already made. People are often called these three categories of exodus, or whatever, but they are at least Together in the government of special interest, not consumer interests.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u35	Mr. President. I'm the highest. The president is eager to create space and space in the council program today or tomorrow so that this important consumer business can be resolved and the will of the Council, which was very clear here at the last council. I'm the highest. That's what a president is for. I encourage the liberal members of the Independence Party who remain within that council to act - perhaps I am over-exploiting the masses - trying to push after this matter. This is an extremely important consumer affair. How vital that the council follow their own will! This was a meeting at the council back then. Wait a minute. Councilmen not to let consumer interests again and again become cornered on the table of this government. I got it. I got it. Councilmen who must muster up courage to take up this matter. Of course, we in our government position will allow space to discuss this matter. We've already discussed this on a professional committee. [[The president calls.]] In fact, it's coming back to us who are on the committee. We held hands while the government took matters to heart. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's being betrayed now. So this is serious. I'm going to point that out to the highest level. President taking the case into his own hands.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u36	Mr. President. I come here for this discussion. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín, the daughter of Gunnarsdóttir, began and was deeply concerned that some special cheese that had not yet been planned was to be brought in. Then I'll just say, "Why are you worrying about it? It's all full of special cheese, it's coming to the country from the European Union at the invitation of the Agency, which has now seemed to be a special farmer, and offered to the Left Green and Independence Party. At the same time, there is no discussion of the best interests of farmers and no counter measures. Iceland's Eros market is 240 tons. They are produced in the Valley of Burd, 25 people who work on it. It's all about disappearing because it's such a terrible thing to have here a specialist from the European Union. I don't understand this concern, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u37	V.E.G. President. I rejoice in the growth of forwards, that can hardly be just a bright future in this country. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] But the main advance team has taken these out of its order. [[Up front.]] - That's the group that stands for. It's the oldest Specialist Party. We've taken care of it. But to be talking about some mistake - perhaps the problem is what happened to counter measures. Where do they lie, and how do they lie? What measures were to be taken to meet that challenge? [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] Where do they stand? We need the answer. But there is no fear of standing by the trades of this country, standing with farmers, and being proud of them.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u38	A respectable president. There have been many very, very needful issues that need much discussion, including the Council. ... thecureofthelaws. I'm afraid that if she falls in here in the last few days, all the discussion is just waiting for us senators. On the basis of the holiday from the meetings we're about to attend, I'm pretty sure that we'll have to revise the Council plan. We just need more Senate days. We are not expected to set aside time limits to handle matters in a good and professional way. We simply need more meetings to resolve these issues. Let's get them in, we'll talk about them, we'll deal with them in a professional and extensive way, and we'll stop the quick treatments that are going on here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u39	Mr. President. I just wanted to respond to a word. paritaprevir Þórunn Egilsdóttir because of counter-important actions. Of course, the biggest counterweight measures in this case were in a new livestock contract, where large amounts of funds were funded in support of agriculture, just to offset the impact that increasing import could have on the industry. It is important to maintain this quality when discussing possible counter measures. However, the agreements were made to benefit consumers, both in order to increase products and possibly to reduce food prices in this country. It seems that it is the main interest of this government to prevent this impact from being achieved, that consumers will be used in any of the contracts made with the European Union at the time. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u40	A respectable president. I just want to pray to the highest. The Minister of Justice is sincerely suggesting that the general data protection program be scheduled tomorrow so that a brief meeting can be followed as it would be sent out for review. Without going to give it to the highest. The Minister of Justice would probably be the most important thing to do at the end of this month when meetings begin again, on May 25; to have as many as well as the rest of the rest of the headlines from outside sources as possible. That would be very helpful. That's why I'm the highest. Minister of Justice in an effort to contribute to the matter to a meeting tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u41	Mr. President. This is remarkable when we talk about consumers and farmers and talk about making contracts, that somehow leads to consumer interests being ignored. What are some of the objections mentioned here, and what are they? It is to prevent consumers from enjoying fruit from the contracts made. A good example is that of the government today to reduce the import of meat under contracts, since it should be counted as a bone of bull's mouth at the time of its transfer and, as a result, will be less transferred from meat. I'm just waiting for the idea for when I have to import these cheeses at the end, if it's not gonna be an attempt to install the weight of animals from which the milk came in to try to reduce the potential import.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u42	V.E.G. President. The person standing here is now brought up by Icelandic cheeses and more than well - possessed. It is in itself good to import cheeses and accept the contracts we make and only probably do so. But I am more concerned about other matters that are being placed on the program during the last days of the council. One is an EEA case that must have been in question for months, and another large case, such as number 19 on schedule today, with the permission of a president, on action against money laundering. Are we really going to resolve this size, along with a case of foreigners and Schengen, in a schedule in the last days without an absolute discussion? Why have these matters not been revealed in the past, as we have prayed for in the opposition from the time of the council? [[The president calls.]] The fact that they dress up and present big things at the same time? But it couldn't be done. Why? Why do the problems arise for months?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u43	Mr. President. Here we discuss one of the most important issues of our Common Era, the North, and the development there. Thank you very much. Minister for coming down here and talking to us senators. This is a five-way inquiry if you've seen it on until a magazine. I'm going to say a few words about my vision on four factors, starting with the Arctic Council's success. He is considerable, peaceful, and excellent cooperation, and a number of agents in the hearing have come to the council. It contains e.g. The agreements on fishing and saving, and the arrival of the natives have increased dramatically. They're 10% of the people who live there. Science and monitoring work has increased and knowledge sharing between countries, so I'll name something. This is the plus side, but on the minus side there's a special proclamation of five coastal states of eight on the control of the entire North Sea and the Pole area, i.e. Three countries do not have coastal areas in these areas and are kept out of agreement with them. I'd like to put it on the minus side and as well as the continued use of fossil fuels in the north, search and processing, although more than half of the known world settlements must remain if it is to prevent climate warming. In terms of differences, I would like to mention this with the management of marine areas outside of the 200-mile jurisdiction, that is the subject of conflict by a number of countries there. There is a conflict of armsisation and security issues in these areas, and there is disagreement on what can be interpreted as a real sustainable nature industry, and there is also a disagreement that humans do not agree on how to cross countries outside the north. Then it's mine, for example. On China and on the European Union. Because of solidarity, I would like to remind you that there are very open and meaningful discussions in the North Pole, what I have experienced there. We can call it just a nice chauvinist up into a foreign country. This is a solution to meaningful discussions that have worked. Similarly, there is a comparison of the importance of Arctic navigation. There may not be an agreement for them, but at least that things need to be discussed, and that there is concordance with innovation when it comes to e.g. energy, modern trade routes in the North, and infrastructure. Member States would need to define, in general, the most basic projects for sustainable development, i.e. what we mean by sustainable development, and working on it. This is true of society itself as well as of nature in the north. More binding meeting laws need to be called out in the Irish language. There is a need to increase the monitoring and provide sustainable information on the north-south and further education in the north. The key to evolution in many of these countries is increasing and stable education, especially among the indigenous population. I also wanted close listening to states outside the Arctic and to have increased cooperation with them, both on the basis of the government, the Council of Arctic and in cooperation on the judicial grounds, i.e. between the conventions of these countries. I'm not going to spend many words in the head of the Council of North Pole, I expect a minister to go into it all, both the emphasis itself and the ways to follow the emphasis, as the inquiry assumes, and, in all the institutions of the country, will share in all of this. There's been a considerable work now on these matters and a highly qualified man, Magnús Jóhannesson, to lead the work in a way that I think will do much better. There is no doubt that this time when foreign policy, such as the United States and Russia, is partly involved in a conflict policy, it can affect the operation of the Arctic Council. That would be very damaging. I can bypassing that 13 months' work and consultations on safety and northern defenses were put together on the initiative of the United States. [[The president calls.]] The only state left out there is Russia.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u44	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson for requesting a special discussion on northern issues and the proposed prehumanity of Iceland in the Arctic Council. Northern issues are particularly important for Iceland, and our prehumanity in the Arctic Council gives us a unique opportunity to shape there for the benefit of the territory and its inhabitants. The result of the Arctic Council's work is great, and there is no doubt that it has had much to do with the more than 20 years that it has worked. The Member States are having an upbuilding conversation on the field of the Council on the issues of the region that are mainly directed toward those that combine, such as increasing understanding of the environment and existing environmental change and any opportunities and challenges to economic and social interests. In addition, the Arctic Council has contributed to the implementation of the northern issues on the global political agenda, with a new dimension being developed in international cooperation and has continued to work as a peaceful site for the eight member countries and six for cooperation on sustainable development in the region. It is important that such cooperation will continue to bring an end to a great deal of value, especially in these days when international relations, such as shock, are increasing. A senator referred to him. Let's not forget who's sitting there at the table, the North countries, Canada, Russia, and the United States, so the composition of this body is unique. We also have a very tangible example of the direct results of the North Pole's work. Make negotiations. The Stockholm Convention on Prevention of Pollution by persistent organic substances and the Minama Convention on defense of mercury pollution is an example. The Arctic Council has also taken initiative in making three legal binding contracts that deal with search and survival, responses to environmental and scientific cooperation between the Arctic states, thus trusting in the main objectives of the Council. As regards differences and solidarities within the Arctic Council, it is worth considering that all decisions made by the Arctic Council agree. The Member States have agreed from the beginning that cooperation should primarily be subject to sustainable development in the north. A good cooperation and a good understanding of the importance of cooperation to solve the obvious solutions is about this emphasis on cooperation. So there is no particular issue within the council, but there are often differences between countries in how individual matters should be resolved. It is also helpful to remember that the Arctic Council has limits on chemicals. For example, the Arctic Council is not a matter of safety, protection, or fishing, as we know it, but there may be differences. In view of sustainable development, most recent international projects are no doubt the way to deal with environmental change and the growing climatic activity in the northern parts of the world today. These changes include ... totheenlightenmentof tourism and voyages requiring infrastructure, aimed at the sustainable development of the community. An increase in the cooperation between North Pole countries on search and saving and pollution, as well as the protection and legal binding agreements on these topics are examples of a clear reaction to these changes. One of the most important projects ahead is the continuation of adaptation between North and North Pole to climate change and a high focus on the cooperation of the Member States in this area. As a focus on Iceland's management, we work to shape and consult its prehumanity, both at home and at home with our partners abroad. Concluding is something that I stress in this language, such as it is. A senator knows. In fact, the preparation began at the beginning of 2017 with a large mind - flow meeting in the Hare, which was attended by a second hundred people. Since then, extensive consultations have taken place within the administration, in the business world, in a university society, in free members of society, and in politics. We see to it that we attend the prehistoric form of sustainable thinking that will be a guide in all aspects of, environmental, economic, and social. In this light, three - fold focus is seen; the ocean, the economy, and the people of the north. Sometimes it's forgotten that there are four million people there. Under these main focus areas, measures for sustainable development in the region are being defined, and, of course, the currents and international policies, such as the UN and Paris conventions, are being taken into consideration. So let us not forget that when about 80 projects are operated under the council's hat, most of them continue at the time of presidential management in Iceland. In addition, I would like to mention that the growth and funding of the Arctic Council is an important part of our northern policy. We want to continue to be filled with the most important opportunities of consultation on the issues of the north and will be used during our prehuman history by a powerful North Pole. Then I would like to use the prehumanity to contribute to the increased knowledge among Icelanders in the affairs of the north and the importance of the international cooperation we are participating in in in the area. Iceland will introduce its emphasis in the Arctic Council later this year and will be presented in the adopted Ministerial Conference of the Council in Finland in May 2019. This will focus on the work programme at the Council's Work Committee, and then Iceland will be taking the lead on the Council's Commission of Public Affairs to monitor their implementation. We emphasize that the mercenaries available to the Arctic Council are always, regardless of the premeditation of the council, a normal part of the work of the professionals and subsidiaries involved. [[The president calls.]] In this way, there are many services and subsidiaries at the Arctic level even now. [[The president calls.]] It is also important to ensure extensive consultation within the country in the implementation of the prehumanity and to bring it to the State Ministry. Then, in Akureyri, large numbers of the meetings that will be held during Iceland's prehuman existence will be held in Akureyri, with the fact that our northern district is Akureyri. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u45	Mr. President. First, I want to thank you for this discussion. This question is, what are the most urgent projects in the north with regard to sustainable development and what affairs of Iceland will focus mainly on in their prehuman existence? As noted in the news and recent reports, global warming is twice as fast as the average in other areas. It has and will have widespread social impacts, environmental impacts, and economic impacts. It is important to highlight the prehumanity of Iceland on all three aspects of sustainable development. First of all, care must be taken to ensure that everything produced by an international organization is settled in agreement with the northern communities. The effects vary from place to place and from place to place for communities. Therefore, all that is possible to counteract global warming must be done, and we Icelanders must examine ourselves in this regard and groom us in a cup. By warming the north, resources will be more accessible to innovation. There is a danger that some may consider fast - price gains by using the resources without respect for the environment and society. Negotiations need to be worked, either by sea or by country, and the government must make a clear requirement for social responsibility for the businesses who work or want to have a course in the north under these changing circumstances. In all measures, climate change's impact on marine life needs to be taken into consideration. The erosion of the sea, the warming of the sea, the rising surface of the sea, the pollution of plastics in the ocean, and the plundering are all threats to which there is a strong, clear way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u46	A respectable president. Iceland's economics linked the development of the north are enormous. It takes at least There are two reasons why we can protect our interests. On the one hand, we need to invest in necessary infrastructure, and on the other hand, political will is needed to protect that interest. Neither of us seems to be fit for this government. V.E.G. At the end of his talk, the minister of the foreign minister mentioned that Akureyri was the northern regional center of Iceland. How, though, does the government demonstrate this by their actions? The University of Akureyri, which has tremendous opportunities to lead us in northern affairs, is financed. It was to improve that, once economic prospects had reached the present level, but in spite of talking about high school in education, the University of Akureyri continues to be very expensive. It is becoming something of a so - called high level of transportation, i.e. Especially are people punished in these articles, where the government speaks of great attendance. Talk about interestkeeping. It seems to have almost missed the government - I've at least missed that. did not see her lift a little finger to deal with it - when our fellow workers, the Norwegians suddenly decided to stop oil and gasing in the Dragon area after working with Icelanders shortly after the Norwegian Parliament had made large contributions for the studies, they had shown that there was a significant chance of developing significant oil and gas sources in Iceland's legal history. Global warming is an enormous problem, a respectable president, due to greenhouse gas emissions. Mainly, emissions are increasing rapidly because carbon dioxide is increasing dramatically. With Iceland, we need to do our part by offering more gas and Icelandic oil to reduce carbon dioxide in the world and, as a result, greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u47	V.E.G. President. First, I'd like to thank a man of speech for bringing up a matter of the north. The one present is the blessed privilege of serving in the Western Council, which has been targeted since 2012 to strengthen the status of the Western countries in the north. Development in the North is particularly important for the three Western countries, i.e. Greenland, the Faeroe Islands, and Iceland, as 20% of the Arctic land weight is theirs and the population is about 10% of the total population of the northern population. The common interests of these nations are unambiguous. A special committee has been working to identify areas in which the Western countries have a common interest in Arctic affairs. Internationally, the Western Council has also stressed the obligation of national representatives to protect the rights of the region. Now that the world's attention has been focused on this area, this is an important factor. As noted in the Council's annual report, the discussion is focused on people living in the north and how to ensure the security and prosperity of the population there. Environmental issues and sustainable development have naturally been a matter of concern. Last January at the Western Institute for Theme Conference in Illusut, Greenland, the headline was: Opportunities and challenges for tourism in the Western World, with special emphasis on sustainable travel services. V.E.G. President. I would like to ask a minister where he sees the role of the Western Council in the Norwegian cooperation? There are real threats to the area, e.g. In the form of plastic pollution, and there are many projects in the field of environmental protection. There are also many opportunities, but nature's delicateness requires that we exercise caution and make good use of the knowledge of the inhabitants in conjunction with scientific contributions. That is why it is important to strengthen the University of Akureyri, the only university in Iceland that has northern issues in the core of its entire policy. There's a cross-cutting focus on northern affairs. The University of Akureyri has a strong link in the educational community of northern studies. V.E.G. President. The University of Akureyri has the field of cross-cutting research. Is it not best to strengthen their support of future assignments?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u48	A respectable president. Indeed, the issues of the north are important to us, the whole world. Today, a global experiment that is not controlled is being carried out in the combustion of greenhouse gases. It seems to have a profound effect on the currents that again can have a profound impact on the temperature here in the northern regions, all over the planet's lungs. The North Sea forests breathe in the carbon dioxide and the oxygen that dominates much of the world's oxygen cycle. The jungles at the center maintain a condition, while breathing takes place here in the north. We need to take special note of these environmental circumstances. We're not going to get oil, please. That's not supposed to happen. We're not supposed to go in policy to draw oil out of the ocean here in Iceland, although we can. We must take a certain position regarding the future and the situation we are in. They're doing this global experiment, we don't know why. We know what the consequences will be. It is either the overheat that becomes bad or the rate of water loss slows down and the coldness becomes in the north. It affects the lungs of the world, making us back to our former position similar to that of the last ice age, the lands under ice.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u49	Mr. President. I want to start my case because of you. The adminent Ari Trausti Guðmundsson and the highest. Minister for these discussions and other matters. Councilmen. The importance of international events has increased substantially in recent years. Iceland, as an Arctic state and founder of the Arctic Council, has a great deal of interest in the North Sea. The groundwork and access to natural resources in the region shapes our interests. The available policy in northern affairs has sustainable development as an important cornerstone. There is good reason to be alert to significant changes in the environment, especially due to climate change, which have gone more rapidly than was expected in the general population. On the other hand, there is considerable changes to transport, energy resources and resource use in the north. The preeminence of Iceland in the Council of North Pole for 2019,2021 must be based on ambitious emphasis in accordance with our interests, and particularly, Mr. President, in the area of sustainable development and protection of ecosystems except for economic and safety interests in the north.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u50	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson for bringing up this important subject. Often, when discussing northern issues, and the opportunities for climate change, the global warming, that the most important thing in all of this is to be forgotten, namely. that we must do everything in our power to stop this trend. It may have been one of many new opportunities, but the most serious for a kingdom in the north, and its inhabitants are, of course, the change that is taking place. It takes much more ambition on our part and on the fact that we use our influence in the prehumanity of the Arctic Council to ensure that the environmental issues are at the top of it. I agree with what the senators say about the state of Akureyri as the capital of the north. I think we should join together to strengthen the University of Akureyri in research when it comes to the North Sea affairs, to build up that knowledge, and to ensure that the real center of knowledge of northern affairs is hosted at the university in the north. It is already for a great knowledge, and it is important for a growing university town, such as Akureyri, that he is intended for an important role in these matters. Whatever opportunities we may be given because of this development, I may once again be repeated - thanking the discussion we have just discussed - that it is the environmental impact that causes these changes that we need to be concerned about. We need to make sure that we take pride in doing our duty to avoid that effect.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u51	A respectable president. I thank you for this discussion here at the council Hall that, in my opinion, should be in regular ways here at the council like any other foreign matter. The issues of the north are, of course, foreign and environmental, primarily. Iceland has been doing an important job here in the Arctic Council, especially in 2003-◯2004, which was in charge of Iceland. This is reflected in the Actic Climate Interact Assessment, published over the years, which consists of careful studies on the effects of climate change in the north and its reasons. Iceland often boasts, both at home and on a global scale, as a result of being among other countries when it comes to renewable energy and sustainableity. These are the most important features of Iceland's Arctic policy. In spite of good ambition and beautiful declarations from Iceland, when it comes to radical changes in greenhouse gas emissions, it seems less likely to be taking place on the environmental policies of the country. The government has been criticized for its indifference, as reported in the Samúelsdóttir report by Samuel's Bryndís, 2017. The situation in Iceland, when it comes to emissions of greenhouse gases and noncarbon, is, unfortunately, less pronounced than expected, as the EEA's recent reports and the Scientific Committee on climate change in Iceland show both. A respectable president. The effects of global climate change can be seen in a clear way in the north. The North Pole's warmness has been nearly twice as much as in other parts of the world. It is clear, therefore, that before Iceland's efforts to promote international activities against climate change, it is urgent and extremely urgent that we do our homework first and then do all our work and more to meet the international standards we have already accepted in climate change. I want to get the government out of it. Especially when it's clear that Iceland isn't going to achieve the objective of the Paris convention. Then drastic measures must be taken as soon as possible. The Government Treaty declares that Arctic issues are priorities in Icelandic foreign policy and that in our prehuman history we will emphasize world goals, climate issues, oceans matters, indigenous rights, and equality with the approval of Iceland's northern policy since 2011. These are very good emphasises to me, but this is also my hope, although not specifically in the government's administration covenant, paragraph No. 9 to 12 aspects of Iceland's Arctic policy is more important, that's the article on Iceland's policy of working against any kind of military development in the north. It is of great importance to me that Iceland further stresses this aspect of Arctic policy, especially in view of the superpowers that join the states defined as Arctic.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u52	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundson for starting this important discussion and the highest. Minister for his answers and participation. I believe we need to discuss foreign affairs more in this room. Iceland is a northern country, and we have enormous interest in the North. It is therefore important that the development of the region become peaceful, sustainable, and economic for Iceland. The Mosaic Law specifically discusses the northern ways. It even says, by permission of the president: There are opportunities, but there are challenges to the environment, the environment, and the way of life. The relative ecosystems of the north are to be enjoyed by the doubt. ... In the United States, nearly every side of the Icelandic community is a matter of priority in foreign policy. Iceland will be the scene of the Arctic Council in particular stressing the UN's global goals, climate issues, and oceans. An increasing link between North and North countries is expected to lead to increased participation in science, development, and innovation. In fact, between these countries and the countries that have shown interest in the affairs of the north, most countries have come to realize the importance of the Arctic and the future development there for the whole world. One of the suggestions presented in the future report of the foreign service is that of this important cooperation, which discusses the importance of contributing to the increased involvement of Icelandic science and scholar in a wide range of research activities in the North Seas, including the U.S.A. with a special protocol in cooperation with university and research institutions. Last year, a contract on scientific cooperation was adopted in northern regions at the North Pole. The central work of the Arctic Council is through six workgroups, and their contribution to increased knowledge of the environment, biodiversity, and communities in the north has been important. For us, it is also important that offices of two of these work groups, one about the protection of the marine environment and the other, are located here in the country, specifically in Akureyri, which can be referred to as our capital in the Arctic. It is important to support even more fully the work of Icelandic agencies on the field of research, science, and innovation. I trust it to the highest. The minister of state will use it in his work, both inside and outside the country. Then I can't afford to mention the importance of our knowledge of renewable energy, especially earth's heat. [[The president calls.]] That knowledge is not only an export product but also a contribution to development. [[The president calls.]] So it is surprising that there is no Icelandic patent when it comes to earth's heat. I refer to my inquiry and discussion at the highest level. Industrial and innovation minister, but I believe it is important that the innovation policy on the carrier team take on our fundamental factors when it comes to speciality and knowledge, and the activation of aquifers is bound to fall. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u53	The president would like to remind members of the council again to give a speech lesson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u54	Mr. President. I'd like to start by celebrating the highest words. Minister of Foreign Affairs and other whatnot. Councilmen before the fact that Akureyri is the northern Arctic center of Iceland. That's exactly what I want to touch here, i.e. The important role that Akureyri plays in northern affairs. For example, the University of Akureyri is the founder of the University of the North, and it is the only university in Iceland that has northern issues as a core in its entire policy and that has the strong link in the educational community of North-generation research. Akureyri also has institutions, such as Vilhjálmur Stefánsson's office, the Office of the International Arctic Scientific Committee, the Northern Union, and the Offices of CAFF and PAME. At that time, the rural society has shown great ambition for involvement in northern activities and has taken a separate heading for the north. Finally, I speak of an equal rights firm, but equality is just one of the main issues that are constantly developing in the affairs of the north. Is it possible for the Icelanders to be exemplary in this race of contrast with the north? At that time, a local company has established its organization, the Arctic Services, designed to perform industrial and technological services in Greenland. In this context, though, it is not the time to look to technology and innovation in northern lands rather than to look to oil and heavy industry. It is important that Akureyri as the Arctic centre have access to projects carried out in Iceland's prehuman existence and that Akureyri will be new as best a platform for a conversation about the north. I'd like to take advantage of this opportunity to offer the highest. Ministers to come north of the Senate Reunion to visit the many northern states in Akureyri. Then I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if he will suggest that Akureyri be formally recognized as the focal point of the north and that its infrastructure will be built up like the Norwegians in Tromsö? I can mention other places. Also, I would like to ask the highest. Minister of how he believes to walk with the North Pole Member States to work with the perspective on environmental protection, culture and society, while at the same time looking at access to the region and the full use of resources there.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u55	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you for this discussion, just like everyone else. How important it is that we make good use of our prehuman existence in the Arctic Council that begins next year, 2019! It is important that Iceland clearly define, as it has been done and done for some time, the work to do, but it is also important that the rest of our life become something that we can look back at in the future with pride. Iceland has to leave trails in the North, tracks aimed at protecting north interests, and particularly Iceland in that context. We know the North Sea routes are going to be new, so it's clear. Then it is important that laws and regulations, treaties, and agreements are a precautionary measure of security, the environment, and not to be sacrificed for any commercial interests there. Of course, we want to take advantage of our opportunities. Iceland's interests are enormous, as we know, both about threats and opportunities. We need and should worry that this will be, for example, the case. Environmental destruction in the North, we should be concerned about the warming, the melting of the ice, because all of this directly affects our economic and living conditions here, whether by the weather, by fishing or by other means. Of course, we're supposed to take advantage of the opportunities if they give up as I said before, but we need to keep the environment in first place, that's clear. We too are to put it to the fore, putting the high priority on protecting and improving the interests of the indigenous people of the north and especially on their terms. We should not push something on the person they don't want. On the other hand, we are to instruct and introduce and help them if possible. I also want to end up, President, to mention the Arctic ringboard which is extremely important and has helped to draw the attention to the problems in this area and, in fact, put the lights on Iceland as well. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if he can envision a financial means such as financial resources, e.g. to the University of Akureyri will be increased and improved in view of this emphasis on the north. Also, when it comes to the Arctic, a minister may have used or had opinions on the words of a U.S. government. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u56	A respectable president. Here we will discuss northern routes and the emphasis on Iceland as they take over the head of the North Pole in 2019 C.E. During this two - year prehuman existence, Iceland has an important opportunity to influence and draw attention to the affairs of the north, both at home and abroad. I have even. Get acquainted with Arctic affairs through work in the National Parliamentary Conference on Arctic. This work has convinced me that Iceland and I have a lot to share with other populations in the north and can learn much from other countries, as well as that cooperation increases the potential for success in working as well as the common interests of the population in these areas, most of which depend on the environment. The Sustainable Area builds, including the knowledge of nature and the effects of change on it, as well as on knowledge of man and nature and how people have survived in these areas over the years. One thing that I think is the importance of paying attention to. The gathering and sharing of local knowledge and its connection with an international knowledge community can make a difference in the face of modern changes and developments. The key to this sharing is increasing the education of the populations in the areas. Icelandic universities play a key role in cooperation with international science community, especially the University of Akureyri and its institutions. One of them is the Rif Center for Research, located on the Melacra Plain and is a member of the PRAC presented as the 76 research network around the polar region of international studies. Among the things I believe Iceland should stress the provision of communication are prevention measures to reduce alcohol and drug consumption in young people, work on equality, knowledge of the activation of geothermality, telecommunications, and methods of dealing with the increased pressure of tourists on the delicate nature of the north. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u57	A respectable president. In addition to the environmental problems that we face here in the north - they are certainly the most important and important because there is not much else that happens if we don't do them - there are other things we can do while at least do not prevent the goals we want to achieve them. For example, it is a challenge in a digital community. It is a digital society that safely connects people, ensures communication, is a very important goal to promote cooperation; how we can also prepare ourselves for the fourth industrial revolution that is not something that causes global warming. On the one hand, it is a social responsibility for work in the Arctic delicate environment, how we can ensure a secure environment that does not affect nature, and how we can ensure the involvement of closer to society in a world in which international companies are growing. Finally, it is this social welfare that we need to focus on too. How do we ensure the welfare of people in the Arctic? What solutions and innovations are appropriate for the conditions in which we live? Then I aim for a specific welfare system that is based, among other things, on the sustainable objectives of the United Nations, the world's goals. It is the goal of creating a economy in which people's well - being is guided, not necessarily the short - term fruits of burning oil for a short time, in order to obtain only a little extra money so that we will safely face these global problems that concern climate. We need to think further. We need to realize that global warming will not stop at any time when the temperature in Iceland has become convenient for us, such as an old - fashioned southern climate. Then we can't just stop, it's going to go on or, as I described earlier, can turn up into its resistance and we'll end up under ice like we did in the last ice age. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u58	A respectable president. I appreciate the advisor, huh? paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, for bringing about the affairs of the north here, will end up in the most urgent interest of our Icelanders, who live in the sea. A large part of our discussion is about the focus of our Icelanders now as we lead in the Arctic Council of 2019◯2021. The project is truly devoid of power, perhaps even of course. describe them in these three words: security, environment, and resources. In recent years and decades, people have turned their eyes toward the north for various reasons. First, because significant changes are now taking place in this area, where ice emissions have decreased over the last few decades, and it is estimated that this trend will continue with a new navigational approach as well as because the impacts of climate change are more widespread than around the world. It is not only that this issue has something to do with our environment but also that of our grand security interests. The most important thing is to promote stability, cooperation, and cooperation in the territory by all means. Increased shipping, not only traditional sea transport but also massively improved cruises, call for large - scale cooperation between the nations in and around the area of observation, and for equipment that can be used to save in the event of an accident. This calls for land on a high-level land guard with a powerful vessel, a port and flight position, located near the shipping lines. I'd like to add one thing to the environment for the sake of time. It must be demanded that the superpowers provide information on the possible sources of radioactivity in the oceans from the Cold War period and that appropriate measures in this subject be made to prevent possible radiation leakage.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u59	Mr. President. Thank you. The speaker, the founder of this special discussion, for calling attention to this important matter, which is a natural big interest in us Icelanders. It's a long-term thing that we have to work together on, and it's a pleasure to listen to a panel of council talks across the United States, to feel that the importance of this matter and the opportunities to develop the north, how we manage the administrations, organization, research, and so forth in these areas, but also what we have to be warned about and how we are subject to it. When me and the Icelanders look to the north, I'm starting to think. It is important that we discuss the northern part of the world that we share the knowledge and respect, the basic knowledge we have gained in areas related to the affairs of the sea, both the seas, and the sea research, as well as the quality that we have. I'm going to map the ocean bottom around Iceland, how we can help build a specific organization, come up with a approach on how we're going to develop cooperation and cooperation in the north. I also believe it is important that the government only gives us a glimpse of the long-term cut. There's even one here. National Guard has been named, which is urgent to be strengthened by the likely opening of the north. I also think it's important that we see a structure plan in research institutions related to the affairs of the ocean, whether the Oceanographic Institute or the University of Iceland, that contributes to our growth and further building up our knowledge of the north, everything connected with the Arctic, the affairs of the ocean, and what concerns our interests. We have great interests to protect. I think it's important that we prepare our interests with that, including... to strengthen your university and science. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u60	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for his word. Councilmen. I'm particularly pleased with the opposition. I'd like to say something. The senators of Oleabus the Ólafur of Ísleifsson, Oddný, Harder's Harðardóttir, and Þorsteinn the son of Víglundsson; it is good to hear these views. The key points that we discuss are this statement: "Simple evolution. " If I take out one of the elements, you hear too many times - I'm not talking about this room, just in general - that there's an opportunity for nature protection and caution. It's my experience with these discussions for a long time. These include high expectations for mines and North oil and gas development, despite the fact that they must remain more or less. Foreign guests, e.g. in the Arctic Circle as it is, talking about sustainable gas and oil processing in the north, no matter what. It has also often been heard of the need to protect our interests, with emphasis on our time. Of course, it's true in part, but it's mostly about decision-making, not about Jan Mayen or anything like that. How important it is for people to realize that in these two areas of the globe, Antarctica, and north, we all have our best interests at heart! The white shield in both of these areas is crucial to the future of mankind, much less. This understanding is as important as caring for the key elements or passwords on sustainable development. It is vital that people understand that these are not just our interests, that they are everybody's interests. It needs to be looked at first, then at us.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u61	A respectable president. I'd like to start by not just saying thank you. A primordinator, it's everyone's fault. Councilmen for good include in this discussion. I felt that the discussion was marked by harmony and solidarity in this important matter. It was far and wide. Of course, I can't in these two minutes cover all the points presented here. But I like the metaphor that the Arctic really was the opposite of Las Vegas. All that happens in the north we will experience, in some way, the whole world. That is why it is not surprising that people discuss it in this large context. What people really don't want to see is that this is going to be the scene of world tension, there's gonna be a arms race, and there's going to be a real conflict. Of course, what we would like to do is try to prevent these environmental threats that threaten us as much as possible. But still, we'll expect to see a great change. And when the ships are all likely to open up, it will be just like the opening of the Panama Canal or Suez Canal. This is a 40% shortcut between Europe and Asia. Then it is extremely important that all this communication be done in a peaceful, upbuilding way and, of course, be guided by sustainability. Things were discussed here, such as. Security and rescue. That is something we Icelanders need to take the initiative in, surely we need to work with others. Not many other places will be more important than Iceland when it comes to these factors. You don't have to worry that there will be no work with Akureyri, which I mentioned here as the head of a Northport in Iceland, but, of course, a lot of other people have to do it. The big thing about this is that this is a form of consultation and cooperation between Icelandic partners. Listening to what is bad is good. Senators here today. [[The president calls.]] I expect we will continue to cooperate, because it is extremely important that our major project succeeds.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u62	V.E.G. President. I come up here for a moment to make a comment, and I agree for a moment. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson came in earlier today, that we are now receiving a number of cases that are to be taken differently into the council, if permitted. Of course they'll be allowed. The practice is to step in on these issues. But when things happen this way, which really happens before every Christmas and every spring, they always hurt and a little bit of intolerance, despite the fact that we have a specific date to compare with. We must insist on the government, as we did many months ago, that we would not become involved in bringing lots of cases into the council when it was clear that timing had passed. I'm asking the President to tell the government that this needs to be changed and that we should learn from experience. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u63	The importance of a matter to the government has been repeatedly repeated by the President.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u64	A respectable president. I voted with this case after two. Um, but we in The Piranha had this warning that we were not convinced of the possibility of allowing the patent of certain drugs to be extended through these six months. There was a request for evidence to prove that, but the evidence did not, so we are not yet convinced of its advantages. As I look into the matter even further since then, my doubts have increased, so it's not because I don't vote here, but because upon closer examination, I'm more doubtful of its advantages. But I don't stand in the way of the case and I don't vote against it because I realize that the goal is at least good, increasing the possibility of drugs for children. As I say, we were all on the green button or most of us, but I'm just not convinced and so I'm sitting by this particular vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u65	V.E.G. President. As mentioned in the talks and answers I have made on this matter, it is a very insignificant and humble thing, of low ambition and limited authority, which humans have to provide for their affairs or limited ambitions. However, this case won't kill anyone, it won't hurt anything in itself, but I'm not going to stop it from going through here. In itself, though, it is totally unnecessary and useless.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u66	V.E.G. President. The guy wants to go through the price-separated loan agreements with indexes without housing teams is shown in many ways, including both for the labor movement and for the government contract. Governments. Here we are showing our willingness to make such changes, according to professional assessment, and we commit financial and economic ministers to order a panel of experts to evaluate the benefits and shortcomings of such agreements with the index price of consumers without the permission of the mortgage that a loan has the basis for the basis of insurance. I think it's very important that this is measured. This has taken several changes during therapy. The Economic and Business Committee, any changes I can support, and thank you very much. The Economic and Business Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u67	Mr. President. I would like to agree with this matter that I strongly support the opinion that the proposal assumes. I don't want to give myself anything about the results, but I think it's good in view of the discussion that has taken place on insurance and such matters as this matter being considered. Of course, these issues are being examined, they have been examined before, and there are variations, but I think it is useful to be examined in the way that is expected to occur, so I support it, but I say that at this point I have no conviction as to what the conclusion of this investigation should be, and I do not want to give myself anything about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u68	A respectable president. Here it is added to the suit of information that does not have the right to use or access to materials or services that violate other laws or judicial decisions. I cannot help but mention that in Icelandic law, there are a lot of rearming things that have a very negative impact on freedom of expression. For example, we have a very evil hate article, it is vague and inaccurate, and no one really knows what it means but the Supreme Court from time to time. There's more in Icelandic law about the freedom to express myself that I think is a law that I have to fix before these conditions are made. That's why I vote against this particular change. Although I had a reason to believe that she will still pass through, I will vote with the article as it follows. I'd rather have liked this particular change not to have been made. According to this, I understand from others that its legal influence is nonexistent. My food is that they're somebody. That's why I'd vote against her for those reasons alone, in fact.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u69	We can expect votes later in the afternoon or under the evening. They will be preached on a moderate scale, i.e. magazines, as discussed in the preceding article, have been able to help you to understand the Bible's counsel on how to apply it. The president also wants to say that dinner break will be longer, there will be a break at the hour. 1920 to hold a meeting with the president and the presidents of Congress and with committee events if they wish to take advantage of the time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u70	V.E.G. President. I'd like to recommend a committee party for what it is. Legal committees on bill to legalize various market income laws. You can find it on the roof. 923, is the 167th issue of this council. Then you can find adjustments to the bill in a special Senate document, No. 924. The sources of laws and bill have a relatively long approach and are particularly two main reasons behind them. On one hand, it has often been suggested that it would be advisable to reduce the long - term markets of state income to simplify and strengthen the government of the Council and the financial administration of the administration and to reduce the opacity and fluctuations of the system's financial resources. However, the effect is from 51st. track No. For public financial reasons, 123/2015 is essential to providing this bill. The law states that income, other than government income, will only grow as citizens. So the bill is designed to change the requirements of many special laws in harmony with official financial laws. The background of the case is due to the fact that the present greater percentage of the budgetary committee presented a comparable bill at the 143th legislature Council. The bill was then prepared with financial and economic support, and it was proposed to make a full deposit of income so that it would fall into the state's funds and only be income-fixed there but not in the books of the individual Member States. The bill did not get paid for that assembly. As in that bill, this bill does not suggest that donations to institutions or individual projects be impaired but merely changes in the production of accounts. This will help me to give a witness on page 18 of this magazine. 10 and a precaution, therefore, that the bill does not include a violation of the budget, but it does mean that if the law falls within the capital of the General Assembly to evaluate the scope of research and projects and the formal decision to make a budget of money for them is increasing in terms of special law. This is important and harmony with what is being concluded here by the committee. When we refer to market revenues, it refers to legalized government income that under law is marked with earmarks to cover the costs of certain lawsuits, projects, or institutions. On the one hand, there are tax revenues that are set aside for certain projects without a service to the income and to other public funds that are also legalized. Then it is conditioned that the Agency's services should be met. Although market income could be transferred to the institutions, they would still be transferred to the balance of the state's funds and thus available in comparison with the expenses of the institutions and liters. There are a wide range of significant incomes and are listed in a number of special forms. Bank accounts show an overview of market income. The accounts of 2016 include: up to a total of 15.7 billion. markets of 60 different budgets and subjects on the remuneration side of the budget. When this bill was first submitted, a great deal of talk was made about what will be gained by removing such long - term markets and by considering their goals. First, I'd like to quote the report before I make that statement. The bill's report on page 24. 14th with President's permission: ▪ If this bill becomes the law, the markets of tax returns no longer to institutions, but only government funds. In many cases it can be assumed that the Council will determine the contribution to a project or to an institution as planned but, in any case, contributions will be made to the sub-institution and financial authority of the General Assembly rather than to the provision of the current annual pay flows. Thus, the key arguments followed by the contributions of the bill related to the government management process and the following: Decisions on government income will be taken into account only the financial and financial resources. End-of-the-book posts are down. Uncertainty wastes on the budget of the budget year. Expenditure growth through an automatic flow of state income to the strains is eliminated. Simple budgets and accounts for institutions, billing and billing on the state bill. Strengthened, and simplified, financial administration by the states and the state as a whole. Supporting the market budgets - as a law on public budgets is expected. Supporting the General government of the United States. While earnings to cover the expenses of specific lawsuits or projects are made by special law, it must be an independent decision made by the Generals each time, whether or how much money is given to the person in the budget year. At 41 st. The Constitution says: "No fee can be paid, unless there is a warrant for it in financial or financial terms. Whatever the funding of the government's activities, it should be clear that according to the Constitution, the funds of the General Assembly are in charge and that there will be only legal application. However, money may vary from year to year and change from year to year in terms of economic change, demand or other economic factors without the need to be directly linked to the annual budget needs of the institution or to the budget of contributions for the project. Ideally, it is enough to mention the income of a fuel tax and a decision to pay on road projects, such as major projects such as a tunnel, or income of insurance and expenses, or a stock fund or a fluctuated income for the registration of vehicles and the operating expenses of a law firm. Thus, when determining whether Member States are in charge of financial law, they must be more likely to consider whether expenses are within the financial budget than if market income has been paid more than or less than expected in budgets. This is not consistent with the financial management of the framework, which aims to keep expenses within a fixed budget, that the funds of the institutions are changed to the final budgets of the market budget of a year, instead of holding them on to the budget and priorities set for financial gains. International institutions, such as OECD and the World Bank Fund, have pointed out that the scope of the commercial income in this country is far more than universally going and occurring in our neighboring countries. According to the report of the International Cash Fund, with proposals for new financial frameworks, about 17% of the budgets are financed by special or marketd incomes, which is the second largest rate in a number of countries, according to the fund's survey. The proportion in Ireland alone is higher. The transfer of market tax and other revenues to institutions in the accounts, regardless of the relevant sources and financial resources that have been used to account, has caused various problems and complications in the accounts of the institutions and a great delay in the contributions of annual final budgets. These include the uncertainty of business positions within the year with regard to government funds, a blurred position on budgets, and the formation of the so - called sums of their own money in the accounts of the institutions. It may also be considered to be a fiscal means of bringing citizens to the income and possession of more government bills than authorized by financial and financial funds. In addition, the current arrangement calls for considerable extracurricular work on this income and their provisional rights, both in financial terms, in financial bills, and in final budgets, and for a considerable amount of cost and gain from a small administration. The road structure can be taken as an example of an organization that has long been expected to be funded permanently by market income. However, it has been said that the budget of the Agency's budget has completely broken off at the market of the party's income. The cumulative effects of this arrangement include According to the 2016 state bill, the main chair of the Roadmaker at the end of the year is positive by less than 2 billion dollars. but bound my own money negative about 19.3 billion dollars. This means that the cost of accounting has been 2 billion dollars. Within budgets but financed by markets of 19.3 billion dollars. and less than the charges. It is easy to see that this market of road income has a purpose longer. This can be added to the opinion of the dog. The Management Board, under the review of Kingdom Accounting, is given this example in which State Revision has repeatedly found that there is a market pay on their accounts, especially on the issues involved in their binding and pointing them out. particularly in his review of the accounting problem of Vega, where the Agency has actually borrowed 19 billion dollars. Above all, collect the money that is marketed to her. So that's a good thing to do here. Although these accounting tools to show the funding of budgets would still be stopped, it would still be as easy to compare the budget for road construction as the income of cars and traffic, the income will still be transferred to state accounting and information on income, financial resources and expenditures as easily as available and available as it has been. The General Assembly has established both the financial resources and the markets for which this situation is established but can also make changes in legal arrangements needed to make the financial advancement of the state clearer. When a government law was initiated on government funds, the so - called induction process of the law was initiated, and their implementation program depends on taking up to three years to fully introduce the accounting section of the law. The bill is part of that process, and the committee assumes that during the period of induction, another bill is presented for the decommission of the non-employers in this bill. To 51st. the management of public finances is stipulated that the income of the A-part State Fund should be defined and classified according to the international standard called the GFS standard. The standards of the market are tax revenues, insurance fees, financial contributions, and other income. According to an international definition, tax revenues are legal fees for which the State will be individual or legalized, without direct contributions or services that directly correspond to the fees. Thus, significant revenues are tax revenues in which no special service is given, but income is still earmarked for specific tasks. However, the market markets of revenues require legal spending to cover the expenses of certain lawsuits or projects and the markets of organisations, i.e. Money spent to finance non taxpaying agencies or to finance projects. It is assumed that the law on business income is being given as a public service continues. Examples of such legalities are pay for advertisements in the Management News and multiple registration and monitoring fees that are granted to currency and registration are based on costs. The Commission estimates that with a bill on the approved GPA of 2017, there will be a number of changes in the budget compared to previous years, and this will include the decommission of all market revenues in the accounting of individual Member States regardless of the individual regulations for the balance of revenues. The committee, however, discussed market income in relation to the labour market and obtained the committee's meeting with the labour market party. The Commission believes that consultation with the labour market parties could have been more important in preparing the bill. Protocols on insurance markets are often included in the preparation of collective agreements and were designed to finance employee rights and to relate agreements between the state and the labour market parties. These views are considered to a large extent by the bill, e.g. not to be proposed to change the market markets of employment-free insurance, birth-orlaborf or insurance fund of private workers. The Commission suggests two changes in the labour market. On one hand, the financing of job reimbursement funds and on the other hand, on the contribution to the low-energy burden of pension funds. Thus, the workforce's perspectives are further in contrast with those of the labour market. On the work of the committee, to a more dignified president, there were seven meetings with managers. At a meeting of the Committee came representatives from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, the Post and Communications Agency, the EEA, the Organization for Employment, the European Union of Unites, the Government Review and the head of a debt. There are more sources, a total of 15 reviews being received, than comments found in these references can be largely divided into two categories or placed in two categories. On the one hand, it is noted that insurance markets are intended to cover expenses related to the rights of employees, such as unemployment bills, maternity payments, pay paid to employees on the down payment of employers, etc. On the other hand, the unique status of individual institutions and the need for financial independence is pointed at national commitments that may at times be ambiguous. Comments by the speaker are in all the main points the same as shown in a review of a previous bill on the deconstruction of market revenues submitted in 2014, as I presented at the beginning of a talk. In preparing the bill now, it is clear that in many cases the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs has taken into account future comments, i.e. the comments that have come and treated the bill when first submitted. In the opinion of the Committee, the bill suggests that there is a compromise. In a few cases, the limit is not entirely removed, but instead it is stated that financing should be kept minimum unless the budget of the fee is set. It's about an Iceland lab, the State Radio, the Fund of Public Service, the Economics, the equations of oil transport costs, and the pay of remuneration. However, the bill does not fully harmonize in that as I came to the earlier part of the talk, the limitation of several important joints is still maintained, such as the employment insurance and the delivery reserve. The committee discussed the issues I am coming to take into account these issues on compromises and agreements, and the results of the Committee are that they believe that before the full implementation of the balance of income is necessary, governments will carefully review all opinions with their partners. Still, it is unavoidable to correct the wrongs that now exist between the laws on public finances and the specifics on the markets of income institutions in order to ensure the level of a financial account meets the requirements for specifics. It is suggested that when necessary groundwork is completed, financial and economic ministers will submit a bill with the provision of market revenues. It should be noted that the bill is not intended for the legislatator that the bill will lead to a particularly reduced taxpayer's budget, but it will provide financial resources for the priorities of individual schemes on an individual budget. At this point, the Committee suggests changes of the bill to six teams. The changes are contained in a special Senate document. The six - unit adjustment document is suggested to include three additions of the law that donations should not be less than one income of a given currency. This is law No. 69/2003, of the Post and Communication Network, where collects pay in accordance with 1, and 3,◯10. mg 14th par. The law runs into a government fund, but a contribution to the Agency at the discretion of the Minister on the basis of financial rights shall be taken minimum unless the budget of the budget is established according to Article 14. Synthetic suggestions are made with insurance laws, No. 113/1990, and the work-replacement legislation and the work-replacement funds, No. 60/2012, on the basis of contributions to remuneration funds, the committee suggests that at least 0.13% of the budget of insurance, as is currently available, and contributions to the equation on the disability burden of public life funds, with a minimum of 0.335% of the same share. Finally, contributions to the EEA's budget are suggested to take into account a minimum budget of the collection of bill. According to the above, the Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the adjustment made in a special Senate document. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn stone of Víglundsson, an officer of the Committee, is in agreement with the opinion. Other them why. Senators at once. legislators who sign at the General Assembly of May 4, 2018 are quoted as follows: Willum Þór Þórsson, Haraldur Benediktsson, Ólafur Ölfur Ágústsson, who makes it in advance, Birgir Þórarinsson, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Bjöl Leví Gunnarsson, who also writes on notice, Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson, Ísleifsson Iuszsson, and Páll Magnússon.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u71	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson for his excellent career with the committee's opinion and explanations. I welcome the decision, as it were. A financial committee has taken over, as it were, to make a decision to make to the elderly at the end of the budget. Governments, major projects in this category, and it's important that funds are guaranteed, including the U.S.A. with this. This is a cause for rejoicing. I'd like to ask you what. A member of the council whether to understand the adjustment may be made so that it is not temporary, i.e. which says, by permission of the President: The EU budget shall be kept in minimum unless the budget of the income budget is set. 1 mg I want in. A senator, depending on whether this does not necessarily mean a temporary change but, at least, that it will be so on, or at least ... untilthere'sa certainthing else. This is of utmost importance because the fund of older ones may in fact have been one of the most important factors in ensuring continued implementation in this regard and the importance of getting it clear from the Council of II that this is the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u72	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For his answer, Þór Gunnarsson's Ólafur is at the head of the elderly. As I came into my speech, these reviews were divided into two categories. On the one hand, there is the nature and origin of income and, on the other, the means of providing for a specific budget that has to do with institutions, such as the elderly's labour fund. I checked the labour market, where, in many cases, there is a compromise. However, the law on public financial matters is quite clear that we are considering accounting from markets. Maybe you can say, I don't know if it's appropriate to say so, that this is the indirect limitation of income, i.e. A trust fund is guaranteed by the trust that the Council values. Until we see another bill coming from the Department of Economics and Economic Affairs, I can say that such an arrangement will last until then.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u73	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. It's very important that we do so. I'd also like to see that the person here basically agrees with these policies, i.e. that income may not be the grieving part of the government policy. Especially when it comes to the elderly is it important to do business. Congress officials realized that this is not merely an assignment to build new nursing homes or nurses. The fund also contributes to a variety of reforms, to build up the day, and in later times, even though there may be a temporary project, even for the management of several compartments. I think it's very important that it lies in the way, at least something in the future, that the fund can definitely live up to that commitment, no doubt fulfilling its commitments. Already there are a number of projects that the fund has already funded and some contracts that lay the basis for them. It is therefore important that, as shown by the Commission's well-changing proposal, these funds will continue to appear in the fund.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u74	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson resists and what is involved in the wealth of the elderly. I agree with that. A senator that this fund is very important when it comes to the construction of nursing homes and nurses; his role is completely undisputed. I just want to reiterate that we are here, in effect, taking steps in accordance with official financial laws, 51 st. It is very clear that the bill does not include the loss of funds. Nevertheless, this bill is a law, that it still falls under the Federal Government. The Commission just wanted to make sure that this and this role that the elderly's Commission fund has continued; that there will at least be no doubt to it that the funds provided by the Council are going to stand up. Still, it is Generalis to evaluate the scope of projects. A formal decision on the disposition of funds will always be universal.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u75	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for the brief or for the talk. Sadly, I failed to listen to all of her, but I hope that I can still ask more helpful questions, but perhaps the answers have been made. On page 18. 4 of the committee's opinion says, with permission of the president: In the opinion of the Committee, the bill suggests that there is a compromise. In a few cases, the limit is not entirely removed, but instead it is stated that financing should be kept minimum unless the budget of the fee is covered. Then you wonder: " If the collection is higher, does that mean that the institution, or the body, or what we call it, gets what's out of the plan as well? The next chapter, called the findings of the Committee, points out that it may have been more appropriate to wait for this matter to be settled. I'd like to hear from what I heard. A senator why it is important to take part now and finish, but leave certain things behind instead of simply doing this better and putting things together after all the facts have been spent; the committee considers the need to review carefully certain matters of opinion and correct the mistakes, etc. I wondered, " Are we still taking steps that do not necessarily improve, maybe skiming things? ' It is clearly stated in the committee's opinion that this is a compromise, that it is not being completely completed. I'm just worried that maybe we'd have been better at home than we'd been on our way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u76	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson for his good question, good answer. This is what the committee looked forward to; to comply with government laws on public finance and the definition of government income, as stated in Article 51. the laws, and the views involved in simplifying the entire account. In the foundation, it turns to accounting, that income goes to a government fund. In the end, the government is always the Generals. It's increasing the metabolic level. Now we're leaving what is called the final financial law. At the end of the government account and final financial law, this has been a complexity. In an article on page 18 - 19. 2, since we're going into the law, it all shows up. You're right, you're right. A senator points out that the bill involves compromise. For example, the workforce is taken out of parentheses. The committee concluded that this conversation needed to take place. There's a market of income in a certain amount of insurance and even happens in contracts at the labour market. Then there's the national commitments I know why. A senator knows very well; an Iceland clinic and its factors are not yet under way. In this respect, it is a compromise. I can say with what. A senator may have found it more convenient to take the steps all the way in and try to do so. But this is a compromise. You're absolutely right.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u77	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I think the committee actually does a good job of warning and pulling out parentheses and pointing out that certain things need to be done better or replaced and to eliminate all uncertainty. I wondered if this is the only thing that would have to be explained, when it comes to public financial law, in terms of market income, such as the market bill that goes to an Iceland lab where it really makes a contribution to the work. On the other hand, if we are going to go all the way that public financial law tells us, this must, of course, be done under this hat. As a result, in a very short period of time, I have been developing the view that perhaps it would have been better to store this matter and simply do it more thoroughly. I was only wondering if there was a special pressure on the fact that this case went out. I can't see why it should be. Of course it does. It makes it easier for an outsider and, like a dog. A senator rightly points to, more related to accounting. On the other hand, the equation is taken out of the big, important factors that cost a lot of money and would be reasonable to see if they were going all the way. Of course, it is tempting for us, who regret slightly having accepted these new laws on public finances to see things go away. But I think it might be late. All I'm worried about is that we didn't have to take this step now.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u78	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi, the son of Sveinsson for these speculations. He actually sums up a matter in a much shorter period of time than the one here did in a more favorable speech. It is absolutely true that the committee wondered if this was not to be kept - I will not go so far as to say, "I work better! " A lot of work has taken place in this process, both when more things are done. The legal committee first proposed this to the 143th assembly, and since then someone has worked. Notes have been taken into account. As mentioned in our conversation here, and why. A senator came in, they're institutions paying a price, e.g. Like an Icelandic market fee. Now it's the highest. Secretary of State to provide special contracts for Iceland. That's probably where you make your income. The discussion will be discussed here rather from the beginning. State Department. I think we'll always have some sort of opinion issue upstairs. The committee concluded that it was right, to step before the process, to take this step here and now. The bill offered something to continue the compromise. The committee agreed, there was a conspiracy to end the matter in this way, it must be acknowledged. But there was no pressure, I want to say it. It was only during the discussions of the Committee, different viewpoints about it. But solidarity was achieved in taking this step as it was shown in this traffic.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u79	Madam President. It is reasonable to ask questions about these matters in the area of the administration. I will come to that in the latter part of my speech. There are two main reasons why the bill is available here on market income. As the evidence shows, it is advisable to reduce the long - term markets of state income and make it the goal of simplifying and strengthening the government and financial administration of the administration and to reduce the transparency and fluctuations of this system in the interest of the resources to which the income is derived. On the other hand, the 51st str. the law on government finance, which makes up the important contribution to the financial resources of the state, I allow myself to say, for the fact that income does not shift only as government interests. So the bill is designed to change the requirements of many special laws in harmony with official financial laws. The market refers to legalized government income, which under law includes earmarks to cover the costs of certain lawsuits, tasks, or institutions. On the one hand, there are tax revenues that are set aside for certain projects, without services given to the income and, on the other, other hand, to other sectores of state funds, also legalized, which are conditional in conflict with the Agency's services. There are a wide range of significant revenues and are listed in the number of categories; it shows that total income is 15.7 billion. markets of 60 different budgets and subjects on the remuneration side of the budget. The aims of an existing bill are to be adopted and subject to government management. Among these goals is the fact that decisions on how to make citizens will be made only in financial matters and in financial contributions. Sources that have been supplied in the final budget will be no more. There will be uncertainty as to the legal rights of deposit within the budget year. Expenditure growth through an automatic flow of state income to the strains is eliminated. All of this is simple donations and related factors. This aim is to strengthen and simplify the financial administration of the kingdoms and the entire State. This has fallen to support, promote, and trust the Universal government. This is not compatible with the financial management of the financial structure referred to, which aims to keep expenses within a predetermined budget, that the funds of the institutions are changed afterwards, into the final budget, from the market account preparation of the team's income of a year, rather than to keep them in touch with the budget and priorities set in budgets. International institutions, such as the OECD Institute for Economic Health and Development in Paris and the Washington International Cash Fund, have pointed out that the scope of the market income in this country is far more than usual and is going to occur in our neighboring countries. According to a report by the World Bank Fund, with proposals for new financial frameworks, about 17% of the budget is financed by special or marketd incomes, which is the second largest rate in a number of countries, according to the World Bank survey. As we know, the implementation of a legal law on public finances is taking up to three years to fully implement the accounting section of the law. The bill is part of this process and is made up of the Committee's Committee on Fundamental Affairs that during the period of induction, another bill is presented for the decommission of the non-employers in this bill. This is especially the market - related income. It is noted in the Committee that a financial committee believes that consultation with the labour market should have been more important when preparing the bill. Insurance markets are often included in the preparation of collective agreements in order to finance employee rights and to relate agreements between the state and the labour market parties. The bill takes into account these views, for example, that there is no basis for changing the income of employment insurance, food or insurance allowances for independent workers. Sets up the committee, as one executive noted, for two adjustments in the proposal to meet the workforce's viewpoint. It is a reason to draw attention to the committee as such the bill shows that there is a compromise. In a few cases, the threshold is not completely removed, but rather it is stated that financier to the minimum, except for the budget for the fee to be paid. Then there is reason to point out that the committee does not consider full harmony in the bill in that the market still maintains the limit for several important teams, such as the employment insurance and the birth reserve. In her committee's opinion, a financial committee states that before the full reduction of income, it is necessary that governments carefully review all opinions. According to a committee article, it is still inevitable to correct the wrongs that now exist between public financial laws and some special provisions for the markets of income companies in order to ensure that the level of State accounts meets the requirements of separate regulations. It is reason, Madam President, to be able to provide a wide range of criticisms to a unique feature of the bill in a review of the State Accounting Act. The comments of the Government Accounts include insurance fees, their treatment and definition, and that in some cases it seems, as it is said, which are being cut off from the market of individual sources, but when you are considered closely considered, it is not the case with the Agency's decision. We're talking about an Iceland Office, the SEC and the Bank of Accounts. This shows that the bill had needed better preparation on the part of the Ministry in order to have the power to complete in one of the issues listed above, to eliminate the markets of the state culture, and thus to strengthen by further the government of the General Assembly. A financial committee feels that it is necessary to suggest that when necessary groundwork is completed, work that should be completed already, provide financial and economic ministers with a bill that will be removed from the market budget. In the context of the fact that the legislator's intention is not that the bill will lead to a particularly reduced financial burden on the creditors. Rather, it is the financial preliminaries for the priority of the individual schemes on a financial frame at a time. Therefore, this matter is likely to come back to Generalis because it is time for this matter to be incomplete in vital matters. It would have been better to avoid these compromises. Not knowing which ghosts will come up when they return. The ghosts might have the best to bear the mesmerizing powers that Glámur had, to detract from humans all the power. It may even begin at an early stage. Would it be worse then than at home in this case, as mentioned earlier, to strengthen the sovereignty of the General government?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u80	Madam President. I appreciate the discussion we've been discussing here. I've been discussing this matter repeatedly, making money, on a financial committee, where it was submitted in 2013-2016. There were reviews that are hanging out with this case right now. At that time, we were not under government law as we are today, i.e. That's what's hanging on to them. I have to say, I have had some doubts about going this way, but I understand it well. I'm not going to question the fact that all accounting will be simpler and so on, but many people fear for their own good. Nor should we forget that the government is and has always been the General. Here it was noted earlier that some people had doubts about accepting the law on public finances. We have also discussed the need for adjustments in the committee locally, whether or not we need to make some adjustments in their matters. Congress officials have felt that they had less to say. Then there is the process we are learning. We've never really made it through until maybe now, i.e. Well, financial policies, financial programs, and then budgets. This may be the first time we're going through all this career. Thus, there is no experience in the process itself. Then there have been elections and always been working hard, in my opinion, at least Once we've been through this whole process, we'll have to tie things up. I have no doubt that something better can go as many times do in the legal process. By going to market income, even though the step is only half taken, we are moving dozens of laws that have been fixed for a very long time. That is a fundamental change, although we are only going halfway. There was also to be expected to be tailored for solutions. I don't know if it would have changed something if we had kept this up, if we had to take it in steps like many other things we've been doing. As we have considered, these are large sums of money in itself. More than 126 billion are marketed in 60 different budgets and other subjects on the pay-side. It is up to us to go through the special laws affected by these laws, and we need to correct them. There are a few things I've been handling in this discussion all along, both when we discussed the matter the first time on a budget committee, with 1st. this case and the Committee. I still want to make sure that we discuss it better on a budget board even if there is only information available. I agree with the basic theme of this, that it is not necessarily a goal for institutions to grow and decrease depending on the extent of some speciality or so, but only here at the council is it determined what we want to make our environment, the government, look like. That's what we do through the budget. Although the government is always at the General Assembly, certain funds have been placed in place. However, it may be said that the limit has not worked unless, in part, because of the years we are familiar with the discussion, for example, not all the money has gone to the Vegas, but has not all gone to rUS of the fees that have been charged, etc. In many ways it could be said that some part of this had already been self - centered. I've watched the Vegas quite a bit. There I've been wondering what we're doing with this debt, the 19 billion mentioned, reminds me, in our committee list. I'm going to express my satisfaction that all committees sign this opinion. Although we all have opinions about it and may have wanted to do things differently, we feel that this is a step we need to take. The road has negative personal funds, as I have repeatedly spoken to you at the council. I'm just gonna figure out what's the starting point. We'll set up a transport plan, and we'll expect her to slip in on the financial agenda. Now we're taking this 0.5% of the gas charge, and everything under it and the road is with a negative head chair -- of course, it yielded better than it did last. It doesn't make any difference that we need to find a point, anyway. If we have assumed that this percentage should have come to the same extent, even though it did not, what was the origin point? This is something the Senate has to decide on. I don't think this is what the authority should do. I think this is what the council should do. We will take this discussion to some extent through a transport plan, but also through the budget. There will likely be some other way in which the next fall will not meet this limitation. I suppose the bill will work out, considering that everyone here is writing it. I think we need to talk about it better and think about it between us. I am pleased with the change made from the fact that the bill was submitted, e.g. with the workforce. I think it was absolutely necessary. When we're making a deal with third party, it has to be part of a change. It's been part of a collective agreement like this. It was, in effect, about to be done. Then, because of its continuation, the Rhiv and the nasal tax is well-finished. I suggested that he be treated as much as RUS because it's a nose tax. It seemed natural to me that it would be similar. Either we decide to cancel or not. In fact, it's a tax that I don't feel very positive. He treats people in a different way. Those whose feet are bent pay more than proportionately, even though everyone pays the same thing. Necessary taxes are never fair taxes to those paying them. While the decision has not been made to remove the nasal tax, I feel that the two people we collected for it should receive the same treatment. This is suggested on the amendment of the legal committee. Still, we must face the fact that there is a great deal of nursing. It is the role of this fund to be a share fund in space, reform, and so forth. I think he's been turning in 2.5 ◯3 billion last year. In fact, with him as well as with others, the fund has been often used for business - not for the past few years, but at a certain time it was. Something's not supposed to be done. Until the bill of the second, about the market income, or their delinquency, is stated - whether it's going to be taken care of in some way, and I won't say it - I feel we have to consider this. I've spoken a lot of things over the years, and I continue to do so. I live in a rural society that has needed quite a bit of this fund and is experienced because it matters. In fact, it's quite finished by now so that it is strictly recommended in the bill that the budgets should take into account a plan for the next five years. It's a positive thing to do. The other is so another matter, and you can wonder whether it takes into account the real need for action on top of the floodwaters - I have doubts about it and have said that the ransom price of a treasure for the last few years, i.e. Substitutions, less than half the marketd income of the fund, have been available. I would have thought it normal that we raised it and reviewed these documents in the light of the needs that lie ahead of us and have been waiting. That's what I said to 1st. that we could also speed up the project, that there would be nothing to forbid it. Soil work's fine. It does not produce an impenetrable beam of it. It was also unwise when the project was not completed in the East, in the North, where instruments and tools were available instead of moving away and then starting later. It's often that way, I think, with the government that no longer is seen. That's where I'd like to see something different. I think it would be good for us to go to a budget board, in our surveillance position, to get the members of the Ministry, who have a fund to do, to us when we have time to go over what it all looks like for the next five years, what it's all been like. I think doing that is the best thing to do. There have been questions about expanding the role of the Great Sea Fund, so that it is also involved in strengthening coastal barriers that do not fall under the seafronts. I think we need to give this a lot of thought to ourselves, and we're going to plan the budget on which other projects the fund is going to finance. These are the biggest things I've had in my life at the council. As I say, it's all right now, as it looks, and I have no great concern. But I think it's normal that we may be getting a little better into this, so the committee will be better aware of the next fall of budgeting whether we can get into it in some other way - or in what way, in general, whether it is needed or not. Over the top, this is the work of the sea. It's kind of like that. It's not bad, but it's not as good as it's gonna be. We all agree on that, but we may feel that it is okay to accept this and take half the way this is suggested. As I said at the beginning of my speech, it is not necessarily certain, though we had kept it longer, that we had been desolated to put aside all markets. I don't know, though. Of course, you don't know until you're tested.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u81	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a nice head-over. I think we have some disagreements about public financial matters and how it has been managed. However, it is important for me to hear a little more than the members of Congress, especially the members of the Parliament who are on a financial committee regarding the interpretations that will take place in the future and on the matter of this matter. But I'd like to ask what first. A senator whether he believes that the World Council government was really strengthened by this change in public financial law and the introduction of this market bill. Personally, I don't think that Aldulis's financial authority has been made stronger by it. On the other hand, I know only on the other side of the development of the company a little better. I'd like to ask you, too. A member of the Parliament that some institutions have earned much of their money through countries. I've taken this up before in this public address. If I recall correctly, this was a school in the north at a time that had at least a 40% of their revenues. That's what we're doing. Will such institutions or institutions fully be restored? It is very important that the message is made from the General Assembly that agencies that have been given a high level of income remain at the same table. I'm going to allow myself not to agree. A senator when it comes to nose taxes and special income, I don't make much difference. This is all the money marked at specific places, whether by a nose tax or by a remuneration, or by a market of income or income. I think it's a bit different, but not money when it comes to interpreting it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u82	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. I agree with the senator. I also feel like it hasn't been strengthened. We've talked about it on a budget committee, and we talked here while we were discussing a bill on official financial matters. I talked about it repeatedly, and I did not agree with them, as shown in my vote on them. That's why I mentioned it in my speech earlier that I think we also need, at least at least, when we have experience. one drip, to sit over it a little. What are we doing well, and what must we do better? How do we get this feeling that we have real financial authority? Like what? A senator knows, especially the first year after the entry or when the law was confirmed, it was heard very much and was a little, so people felt that they had lost all of this to the Commission. Of course, part of this is the removal of market income, which hangs with those laws that are absolutely correct. That may be what concern some institutions too. It's the specialties of the institutions. That, of course, is said in this bill and may be in part positive and negative, i.e. that institutions not only grow as they grow and that as the income is drawn together, their income is drawn together. They have at least to be functional. They are to care for their assigned tasks and institutions. We're not going anywhere but to have it that way. At least I'll look. This is how it works. That is why the bill is more and less semimarket because the step was not taken entirely. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] For the special income and for the rest, I hope they don't grow up and get pulled together.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u83	V.E.G. President. One thing has not been shown in the discussion to this point, that I think, which I want to wonder at. A senator. Now we've got a what? A senator sat on a budget committee longer than this election period, if I recall correctly, so I wondered if it was discussed at some point in the committee whether it was going this way, taking over premeditated e.g. by institutions or government companies or such, you may be less motivated to practice e.g. research, innovation, and the like, which may be more important than others, i.e. to get people who are willing to buy services so that they can develop and grow in all kinds of scientific and research work. I wonder about it before in answer to what. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson would have been better off working things out. I don't think the committee did anything wrong, I wasn't saying it, but I was wondering if it would have been better to deal with all the doubt being made. It is clearly stated in the committee's opinion that there are questions about the other and this, this is a compromise, correctly. Well, then I'm not saying it shouldn't be over. I'm simply saying I can't see that there's so much need to take this step when all the rest of the rest is unaccounted. I may well be wrong, but I can see that there are many things that are incomplete yet. Such uncertainty must be eliminated. All of this, however, around the law on public financial matters, and I'm responsible for having accepted all of that, with great regret I can say today, is like a so-called samurai rhythm. It's one thing and one thing that goes in, one and the other. Now it's this case, it's market income. Eventually, we've swallowed the whole hot dog. Then I think it can be hard to turn back. [[The president calls.]] That's what I'm worried about.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u84	Madam President. I'm just gonna go back with the specials. I'm going to disagree with the senator when he says it's not a matter of whether it's called nose tax or eruption. You see, it's not the same because everyone's taxes are paying nose taxes, but not everyone's taxpayers, i.e. carnivorous income is paid where you go for some particular service, so to speak. About innovation and stuff like that. No, I would expect institutions under the Ministry to recognize what they intend to do and do each year. They are now to provide a three - year plan for their advice, which, of course, should determine what lies ahead. Of course, I'd think the Ministry should take some account of them, and I don't see that there is a general policy of reducing innovation or research. I think that's more like what most people would like to stress, both the present government and definitely the ones who have sat and come to sit because that's what we have to do in order to survive and survive in a growing society. I agree with it, as we have learned here that we could no doubt have done better. I understand, however, that it is good to settle this matter for the upcoming budget because it will be set up in just a different way now, because the budget is now taking into account, of course, all these markets as it is available, just that on its own. This, of course, is a practitioner, not necessarily something else. We're going to keep talking about it because, as we've just discussed, it's only halfway there.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u85	A respectable president. What matters here is the government policy, the cost programme of policy and the cohesion to which the negative status of the previous year continues until the next year or a positive position. That's not what we're doing right now in the last last of the old law's last loans, dropping money or adding it to to zero. I'm on this committee party, and they're warning us that we're just taking half a step. But I think it's just half a step. For some strange reason, market income is removed from separate laws and into laws that remain the same conditions for them, even though they are otherwise implemented. What they are, they're just technical implementation. Yet, in a sense, ideologies are a significant market income. What I'm worried about, and that's why I'm on notice, is that because these principles remain inside, we somehow avoid taking the step to the full, i.e. in regard to the agreement that the public financial law takes into account. It will be interesting to see it now and to see the next last financial law whether we use the old methods or not. This may not be evident if the limits given are higher, i.e. if the minimum of the money is actually higher, but it could happen if it is the other way, so that the percentages of the budget are higher than is needed to finance the project. It is related to my knowing government policies and the need to have it clear, costing it so that we can determine very clearly and clearly on what money is going to go and what goals it is to reach with money. At the moment, it's kind of an empty publication that we issue to the company because they just say they need 100 million, and we don't know why or what to come out of it. In fact, they hardly say that. They just say: Overall, we need a billion, that's about one billion; yet, there's still plenty of other projects that also need to be done, but we don't expect any special money there or even some special action. For example, a new reconnaissance ship has to be launched. Bjarna Semundsson, but no money is meant for that, it's just to be found somewhere. These are policy problems that I think will eventually reflect the half step we take in the market income. If we were to eliminate them completely, the executive authority would have to take more responsibility for whether or not we're going to have more than the financial resources we're going to have. But because we don't have the budget, we can't think of it, and we can be sure that after that they lived up to the programs that were made or not. The lack or the result of this could be a worse plan or we could do it faster. That's all I've really got to look into. Taking the step to the full will help you to better and more precise planning. We will no longer forgive if financial resources are over or under-developed but move them to the next year. Then people have to take that kind of headache if they had a poor plan type and went into the next year in a minus. That's all I have to say about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u86	Madam President. As we have seen, this bill has been fulfilling the requirements of law No. 123/2015, on public finances, the budget for the public income will be removed. The aim is in itself positive, such as. that the bill to the end of the budget will be the end of the story. Another simple bill is the budget. That's a good thing. The next article will show whether they trust the World Government government. A similar bill was put forward by a greater proportion of the budgetary committees at the 143th Court Council of 20133/4/2014 but was not paid up. Several comments were made and have been taken into account in principle. A paper with the bill shows that the civil financial law adopted a change in arrangement, i.e. Government budget management, including: it is important to note that a project with direct tax markets and that the State's accounts will be changed to the end that tax returns to the state's funds rather than to local citizens. I'm of the opinion that the preparation of the situation on behalf of the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs could have been better and more extensive consultation should have been applied to those involved. That's where I share my opinion with you. paritaprevir Ólafur, Ísleifsson of Isleusus, a fine member of the financial committee. All I want to do is stop at the State Reconnaissance on the bill. Hv. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson, chairman of the budget board, also introduced it in her history. A public review has repeatedly found that the arrangements they make and their resolutions, especially the problems that come with their binding. On one hand, there is the treatment and definition of insurance fees and, on the other, a number of terms in the bill that seem to conflict with its main policy. In a few cases, it appears that it is being canceled by individual companies, but when you are examined closely, it is not. That's true of the National Institutes of Iceland, the Department of Economic Affairs and the Bank of Accounts, and more members of Congress have made that up in this discussion. A regional review highlights that the bill does not answer the question of how to handle unsupervised market revenues that have already been taken into the institutions'accounting now as markets drop. There is also no mention of how income should be treated from an approved legal law on public finances and for this bill's approval. It is important that this is a clear guide in handling income correctly until the date of drawing is set up in the bill. Also, I'd like to give a little time to the case of the agent in this regard. The manager is a very important member of the debt, and he is totally driven by special arrangements. According to current U.S. Semanite Act, No. 100/2010, and the law on paying expenses for the agent's establishment, No. 166/2011, we have financial companies, camp loan funds, pension funds, and insurance companies, and more, of the cost of the agent's account by paying special fees. Remuneration goes to the office and to pay financial support, to pay insurance for bankruptcy costs. The bill suggests that this will be changed and that the pay will run into a government fund. According to law No. 166/2011 shall be sent to the creditor to report the expected cost of next almanac year for July 1st. The report should include the opinion of the headlining committee. The law does not allow room for any change in next year's pay, when each year's budget is paid, to reduce the cost of operating costs. If the cost of the earmarked management is absent, the cost of office management cannot be trusted in requiring the expenditure of funds paid by the office. Since financing is dependent on the General government, it is not guaranteed that the office will be paid the cost estimated according to the above report, which was the basis for the payment. Would such a course be contrary to what was suggested in law No. 166/2011 of the agreement between remuneration and the cost of operating. It must be considered to be directly subject to the Agency's financial needs. The revenues thus do not vary in pace with economic swings, demand, or other economic factors, such as revenues of fuel costs and contributions for road construction. In view of the above, it can be considered a failure if contributions to an agent's debt were to be lower than to be paid by law No. 166/2011. Strong evidence recommends that the law of No. 166/2011 made a legal contribution to the agent of a debt. In this regard, it can be noted that the FDA made comments to a comparable bill brought to the 143th legislature, as I mentioned earlier. The concern was met in such a way that in the bill it contains a legal donation from a government fund to the SEC that would take into account the estimated pay of monitoring fees per year. As noted above, no. 166/2011 based on law on cost of public monitoring of financial operations, No. 99/1999. The scope of the activities of the tax agent is a major policy to which the Agency has a special situation in this regard to the number of individuals who turn to the office at a time. Since the main role of the office is to assist individuals in the payment of problems, it can be said that the Agency is in a way to render services to clients due to their own loans, although the services are not considered to be specialized in terms of currency. It is important, therefore, that the agent of a credit agent be adaptable and can act quickly if the number of applications increases or decreases. In view of this, it is important to be legally assured that the contribution of the state's funds to the office should be minimal unless it is estimated that the due-to-ll income should be paid by the law of No. 166/2011. Madam President. I'd like to end up with a very important agency, but it's SEC. It is very important to ensure their independence from political power in accordance with internationally accepted views. There is the danger that the bill can weaken the independence of the FEEC from the political and economic power that can, in turn, reduce the effectiveness of public financial monitoring and trust in the Icelandic financial market. It is true that there was a meeting with the Committee to provide the bill in this way. The person standing here did so with confidence that this is a step we must take and the changes the committee would offer to meet the concerns of interested people who have been exposed to the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u87	Madam President. It represents a bit of the discussion, and it does not seem to be any difference in human case based on whether it comes from a series of government or government position, that we are here in part, in part, doing a work that is rooted in a lack of preparation and consultation. I referred to my speech to the fact that Gloam's Glámur had been weakened by Grettir. But then he withdrew, and he regained his strength. That's what I'm talking about. paritaprevir Þórarinsson, my partner in trouble. I agree that it would be worth at least one Mass to try to end this case in order to prevent uncertainty and accept the initiative that it is natural for the General himself to have a case that would involve the sovereignty of the General Assembly itself? It set up a lifetime of Grettir of the dark. But do we not have the strength to do what Grettir did, to finish our struggle, and to get better? Or are we too afraid of the dark to carry out this task?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u88	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ólafur son of Ísleifsson for this interesting introduction. I'm not saying we're in the middle of nowhere in the dark with this thing. But there is a shadow because, as we have seen, there is a lack of my judgment, and has been seen by more members of this discussion, that the Ministry of Economics and Economics was better prepared. It was also shown in a review, as I explained earlier in my speech. True, this is a problem. It's not far from right. Senator. However, we need to take this step, which is my opinion, because it is a step in the right direction. Comments have been made, and we have been very good with the Committee on the matter. I want to take this opportunity and thank you. Chairman of the Committee and what. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson for managing this work well and accept the criticisms that have come along and what might have been better done. In view of all of this, I rest assured that we will take this step in the confidence that the changes made by the committee will be of great importance and that they will respond to any anxiety that has been presented.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u89	Madam President. Of course, there is a financial committee in this matter. There is nothing lacking in it, even though in this phase it is not a matter of taking steps only in part. But I have no doubt that in view of the discussion that has been conducted here, a conversation on the surface of the committee will be able to take the step to the full if possible. I want to take this opportunity when we talk about such a big, heavy matter, such as this, and thank you very much. The chairman of the budget board, Willum Þór Þórsson, in charge of his leadership to the commission and his good efforts to promote all views and maintain matters in such a way that we have the situation. But I restate on the fact that considering the role of Generalis to be the highest authority in the nation's affairs, I'm sure it's a matter of at least one Mass, whether it is a means of doing more to complete this matter in an acceptable way. If we have to take up this matter another time, any kind of ghosts here may arise, with unexpected consequences for the whole case. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u90	Madam President. I'd like to agree again and again. A senator said that it is very important that the committee agree on this matter. That's basic to my mind. It's a big, big deal, as we have seen. There are concerns at important institutions; the dean agent, the SEC, and so on. Because I'm referring to the SEC, there is a danger that the bill, if it is legal, could weaken the independence of control and that there could be a political sharpness that cannot be done at all. It's making up markets. The wealth of the government is going to provide it with funds for the business instead. There may be some disagreements with the SEC and would even reduce funding to this important category. Such concerns are understandable and indeed justified. In view of this, it is very important to meet all these concerns and to consider the committee as a solution. I hope indeed that the changes we have discussed, and the committee has concluded that these concerns are going to be countered.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u91	A respectable president. I'm not going to extend this discussion much, I just want to put aside what I've come up with on this matter. It is clear from members of Congress's debates, well, perhaps not clear, you can read from the lines in the senator's speeches, that they somehow feel that they are on a bus to finish something that is reasonable to believe. Something's gonna fix, something to make up, etc. There have also been some doubts about the overall structure of the case, i.e. The public finances, and the person here is not beyond their doubts. I asked one of the fine senators into the World Council of Government. I can't see how this case strengthens the government of the Generals. My experience with all the changes in government finance is that the World Council government became weaker than the rest. Heeding to sit on the other side of the table, I'm even more convinced of it, that the project remains stronger after these changes than before. It is very important, however, that the council uses the authority it should have in order to have opinions and to change what is involved, and we will, of course, need to apply it. It has only been discussed with the market income, what they are and what they are. It was mentioned here, including that nose tax was not the same as making income, because everyone paid a nose tax. Yeah, that's kind of a good argument in itself, but I don't know better than that. All companies pay market fees to Iceland, and there are market incomes, incomes, so it's not quite this cut and cut. So I think if you're going to walk all the way into this, you're going to have to take a closer look, as the committee does. I think the committee has done a lot of good to bring up these speculations, highlighting the concern that is obviously there. It is important that we take them with us for further work. There are excellent explanations for the market income in the Commission opinion and, as well as in the bill. Here's a damp number, the amount, etc. I came here to express concern over institutions that have built, e.g. as a special business, whether to improve it or not. I hope so, but of course, of course, I say, the General should be able to remedy that situation when budget comes to the attention of the Council and the Gaming Committee, provided that the information is needed. You see, when we see the financial frame that the consultants are supposed to operate and the Ministry send in, there is not necessarily a dissociate to an institution where the pressure is to be, if I remember this correctly. The committee mentioned that there could have been more consultation and contact with the workforce, and that is correct. The main target is the workforce taken out of parentheses. It makes me ask myself if it should have been taken all the way and finished in one package if it is willing to do so or if we are on the path to leave a considerable part of the market, apart from the matter, if we can put it that way. Another factor that I am thinking about is what is mentioned in the article and is the best thing to do, that there is a minimum of what is expected, such as this one. About the elderly's contribution fund. If there's anything more, it'll just land in the big pit, I guess. In itself, there is nothing wrong with this, but under other circumstances, there might have been more growth in certain institutions or projects that they have. I'm going to let myself also worry that the motivation to get involved may be reduced when the income disappears, when it has become just a pit. I'm not saying it's gonna be, but it may be. Organizations and companies have had to go to work to maintain their work. Now it may be that there is a very simple solution, and then, of course, I rejoice. Madam President. I think this case is something we knew would come and we'd have to talk and settle at the council. The committee agrees on this payment, there's somebody on notice, I haven't heard who they're being warned about today. This may be indicated later or in the following discussion, but this was what I wanted to make up for here in a talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u92	A respectable president. I do not intend to give a very long talk about this fine subject, but I would like to address some of the points. As an officer on a budget board, I described myself as an approved member of the Committee. Still, there are some things I think are worthwhile. This is a case that has been in preparation for quite a while on the part of the Ministry of finance and the new laws on public finances. I agree with the basic idea in all the fundamental elements of breaking up these markets, that it is at the hands of the Generalis to determine the budget of each year to the relevant Member State. In the long run, it is not convenient for us to have a number of special taxes, which will then be assigned to some marketed project. That makes the government's financial management more difficult. But there are a few things I'm staying on this, first of all, that, in some cases, we're not really cutting down limits. We're in a bit of a crisis with a particular team, which is about a bit of a way to uninvolved, yet at the same time ensures a financing that the minimum limitation would previously have guaranteed them. In a sense, it might be said that with the better consultation of the Ministry with parties at the previous stage of the matter, perhaps more practical solutions could be found, and I think that sometimes a bit of Brazilian approach, since we seem to have stuck ourselves in the prince's hand about decommissioning all over the place, but in fact, we keep it alive with a different limitation. I would have felt a more permanent solution, but time will just have to show if there's anything further going on with us. A great and large step is taken to eliminate the many limits taken to most of them. What I find more interesting and missed from handling this is that many of these special taxes could also cut off and enter a simpler, clearer tax system. I miss the fact that this opportunity was not used to go along with what was broken down over what the tax system could still do and what it was not. I trust that the Ministry of finance is very interested in later filming that work, leaving a number of tax institutions that could be completely spared or included in a simpler, clearer, more efficient tax system. However, there's another thing that bothers me a little bit still, even though I'm on the committee's opinion and that's how you treat work-related pay, we can call it, or what's been dropped under insurance fees through the years, and we're still in some form of requisition to handle the various factors there, the section of insurance that is intended to finance unemployment insurance and maternity spending, for example, which is the exception of the preparatory policy I think is reasonable. These are the rights-oriented pay, which has often been negotiated in collective agreements over the years and is actually a direct tax on employers to finance the rights as employees earn by involvement in the labour market, including the right to birthworm and unemployment reform. I think it's right to keep this out of the market. I would've wanted to see that there was other factors like, for example. The re-employment and perhaps the contributions to the pay of responsible funds also served. These are paybacks of the same hurt and are intended to cover some way employers have a responsibility to pay employees. I think it's wise to go to a good job and talk about this arrangement. Of course, when we watch long - term insurance bills, it would be most beneficial to see that politics are not messing with this section of insurance fee from year to year. Unfortunately, it has been used for a short period of time to finance a government fund to contribute to some of the goods, e.g. Yet, when there are less profits in the economy and expenditures of these funds, the insurance bill is maintained to improve the quality of the state funds. It would be much better for us to take up the policy of drawing this out of the budget, even under the C-part of the State Book, and to negotiate an equal payment to finance both the maternity and the unemployment insurance that is the most massive of the budgets, but in the same way, other factors that are linked to it, such as the remuneration and the remuneration fees and, in fact, the average amount of disability paid by pensions. My inventions are by no means the same that I did not trust in this matter. As mentioned earlier, I'm on the committee's opinion, but I think these two things need to be considered, on the other hand, how we behave long - termly, the factor of insurance that turns on these rights of the job market and the strain that I feel is the monopolizement to follow the tax system and revise many of the smaller taxes, whether they still have the rights to break down so that they are no longer abdicating government projects.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u93	A respectable president. I'd like to go along with this bill and its main ingredient, but I'd like to make some comments. As explained in a report, it is necessary to adjust the name of several points and the order of those who define the economic legal history and thus the basis for land. It is said that by permission of the president, at two locations abducted at baseline, it is explained as follows: At these sites, the baseline line is not a direct linear step between the baseline points from west to east, consistent with the natural situation in that area, but is passed by one point in the second point to the east, then returning to the west, to the point she passed, and then to the second point to the east. The shallowness of the foundation because of these four points is not major, but it affects the fragmentation of the weekend, the adjacent belt, land base, and economic law. Therefore, correction of the point identification is inevitable and is done by a bill. I express my agreement with the need described here and the importance of this correction, but I would like to state that if we were to be well and we wanted to have what I would call the right conclusion about the points which define the economic legal history and at the same time, we would have to take Jan Mayen into account. Jan Mayen is and has always been an Icelandic island, and although negotiations with the Norwegians of their time, especially around 1980, I recall that they ended 1980, they ended with a certain delivery of both parties from the requirements of the case, there is no reason to overlook the fact that geologic, geographic, and even historically, Jan Mayen, Iceland's northern island. It was actually called Iceland, but today it is generally used by the name Jan Mayen to distinguish from the archipelago that the Norwegians have also sought and conquered in some ways. The reason I'm taking this up right now is because it's here trying to bring in a certain correction, and it gives us reason to wonder if there may be no basis for taking these matters back again, since the Convention with the Norwegians did not end at least by certain agreements for future partnerships with the Member States regarding the use of the land base around Jan Mayen and between Jan Mayen and Iceland and the use of potential resources that might be found, especially by oil and gas. There is reason to remember that the Konráð Konsá Jónsson, a member of the Independence Party, worked hard on this subject, and worked very hard to exasperate Iceland's interests in these areas, offering reasons for the rightfulness of Iceland's demands. As I mentioned before, the demands are based on strong evidence in terms of land base definition and rights to seawater and the use of resources at sea bottom and jurisdiction. It is unmistakably in my opinion that Jan Mayen is a direct continuation, and the land base around it is part of the same system. As I explained, this contract was made, based on most of the possible oil and gas sources and the cooperation of the countries in this regard. Not long ago, the Norwegian decided to abandon this cooperation. All the time it had been considered to use oil and gas resources, they had continued it, and indeed, as they knew, much research on the base of the southwestern of Jan Mayen, in the Dragon area so-called, who had suggested that the patience of their time to trust there was the right source of oil, although we had failed to reach what I would call the right conclusion but had achieved considerable success - these studies had indicated that it was likely considerable resources, some oil sources, but especially sources of gas. The point was to continue the studies with the aim of starting up after a few years, things that obviously would make a big difference for Iceland's economics and, in fact, political alike, and men had proposed that the next one would make a plan on the basis of the work that had been requested. In fact, the Norwegian Council had agreed that a large increase - I recall it included a multiplicity - the Norwegian contributions to these joint studies that do not take place directly on the part of the State but that are under the government here and the Power Institute. The Norwegians had agreed to continue this cooperation and provided considerable funding in view of the positive evidence there had been. Then there was a change in Norway's government, a new political party, and about the same time, the Chinese state oil company decided to withdraw from the project. So it had been done by three parties, one Icelandic party, this Chinese party and the Norwegian people. Just a few days after the Norwegian Parliament agreed to expand their contributions, improve their research, the Norwegian government suddenly made a decision to withdraw from the work force. We must ask ourselves, " Why did this happen? ' It has not occurred on the basis of the studies, but it has not occurred on the basis that humans did not consider this sensible investment that had been decided on for a few days before. There are some factors to consider in this regard. Norway's dealings with the Chinese seem to have improved since the relationship almost broke apart because of an issue with the Nobel Prize winners. The Icelandic government, at the same time, over the last two years or so, has neglected the very relationship between Iceland and China. The other thing we especially need to look at is what National interests are about the usefulness of resources in the north. I am notlittled that the Norwegian people are very hostile to the Icelandic language. I have at least a few minutes. it never happened again. However, for decades and decades, the Norwegian government has been very harsh, even in times of insolence toward the Icelanders, at least for years. Work very hard to defend what they consider to be Norway's interests in dealing with other countries, especially with Iceland, and to make requirements for Icelanders, which in my opinion are not based on evidence. They have gone hard in these requirements. This is relevant, e.g. The question, though, is whether the Norwegians are disappearing in a certain way from the 1980 agreements and partnerships decided to withdraw from this cooperation to weaken Iceland's waters in the north, especially in the fields of oil and gas development, but at the same time strengthens their own position. At the same time as the Norwegians withdraw from this project, they are making large contributions to search and processing in other places within their jurisdiction, to see that this work is continuing now year after year and that it will significantly increase the oil industry elsewhere. Is there any danger that Norwegians might think to freeze Icelanders outside, so to speak, about the entrance to oil and gas and prevent Icelanders from getting a stronger foundation? That's at least Something that a government who wanted to protect Iceland's interests in the north, wanted to protect Iceland's interests in terms of land base, land cover and rights when Jan Mayen is on the other hand, must think and respond. But what has been the reaction of the government? They haven't been, of course I don't even ask, at least has not been answered whether a head had been sent to the Norwegian for this changed position. Of course, in such great interests, it is unacceptable that we have a government that does not trust to at least Asking questions about the matter, I'm not talking about going as far as natural as possible to protect the nation's fundamental interests, as was done when men were reaching contracts associated with this case, for it is about the points we're going to use for reference. The points and the criteria that we deal with are based on a particular partnership that we must ask ourselves, " Am I going down to the sand and whether we're going to remind us of our right to a bigger landground? ' Of course, I reiterate, a respectable president, that, of course, it would be appropriate to attack on the correction of these points so that they are in line with what was suggested, but at the same time, this case gives us an occasion and a chance to wonder whether we are happy with the points as they will be able to stand by these corrections, whether we believe it is the right conclusion, which we can accept, regardless of how our cooperation countries will play out in the interest of interest, and whether they will defend their country, or even in terms of what may be considered as a natural part of the country of Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u94	Mr. President. I'm gonna start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson was eager to give the talk, both for bringing attention to the case in an effort to ensure that we do not go asleep into the future as well as for upholding the name of the good man, Eyjólfur Konráð's late Jónsson. It concerns me, I was a friend of the family, and I just want to say thank you very much. As a senator, it was amazing. His contribution when it comes to Jan Mayen and how he held up our rights as he did. paritaprevir The Sigmundur over Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson was overwhelming, but he also pointed to other factors, e.g. Rockall, and I think he even found himself on Scotland's shores with the weekend and then on the whole of Smokeybones. I'm just wondering, at least. President, do the senator wonder if there is a basis for this discussion about Rockall and Smokeynes? Have we kept our eyes awake sufficiently above our interests, or are we similarly asleep? A senator seems convinced that we are already in Jan Mayen?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u95	A respectable president. I kind of have to apologize and thank you. A senator for reminding me of Rockall and the Smokebones. It would not be good to forget the interests in the area. In both cases, there is very strong natural, geological, geographical evidence for the link between this part of the ocean bottom to Iceland's rocks and land base. For good reason, Iceland and I regularly reassessed whether we are walking far enough in securing our interests. The nations around us go as far as they possibly can. That does not mean merely being polite and accepting what we can offer. We did not succeed in that way, with the conviction that we had the right and the right to get the right to it. All that work may not be finished. It is true that Eyjólfur Konráð Jónsson, who was extremely progressive in this matter and, in fact, other matters also pointed to Rockall, and he reasoned there very strongly, and I recall that he had discussed the Smokey ridge as well. It is therefore most appropriate that the oil company that has been working for oil and gas in the Dragon region has been named after the Konráð Jónsson and called Eykon, a society that can be viewed as an extension of the Icelandic state in a certain way by finding it or other oil or gas in these areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u96	Mr. President. I'm wondering if it's a reflection of our prosperity that we're just six senators, and seven of the highest. President, when we're talking about land cover and economic law. I'm not going to talk about 30 to40 years ago, but not one senator would have let himself be lacking in the hall to participate in that discussion. We're dealing with enormously important interests, and that's why I just want to say that I'm really happy to do it. paritaprevir The Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson has woke me up and hopefully more council members in this hall. I think we're not only supposed to be awake when it comes to Jan Mayen, we're supposed to look out for our interests, as the Konráð Jónsson tried to do, and did and worked, not as hard as he wanted, I don't know, especially in the Rockall case. At least he made it. Not at the beach of Scotland, but maybe we could do it together, huh? Senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u97	A respectable president. I'm ready for that fight with a what? Senator. I think he hit the nail on his head when he spoke of being accused. You see, it is one of the great dangers of our community and, in fact, many other communities today face, that of viewing things as a source. Once things have been going well for some time, they begin to think that all of this will happen spontaneously. But it's not like that, all the interests we've taken from us have cost blood, sweat, and tears. All the prosperity that the nation enjoys, though we still want to do better in many areas, is due to tireless work, not just for years or decades, but for some hundreds of years. It is the result of a great work, the result of the history and culture of this nation, and the determination of Icelanders of years ago to want to rule themselves, to want to be a sovereign state. Much of being a sovereign state is having control over its resources and territories. If we are going to defend our future standard of living, guard future generations, and defend their status, we, the generations that are now, need to look to the struggles ahead of us, to take it into account, to learn from them, and to let it motivate us to do our utmost to protect Icelandic interests. As I mentioned earlier, we can totally assume that our neighbors will do so, and that makes it a challenge to protect our interests, not to seek what is right, but to ensure our rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u98	A respectable president. I recommend a committee party with a change of motion on the deck. 928, Committee Department on bill to legalize Iceland's Convention on Industry Insurance, No. 55/1992, with subsequent changes. As mentioned in the preceding article, the committee discussed the matter and found various subjects. I think it's safe for me to state that for the first time, the Economic and Business Committee has received a geographer and we benefited. The bill, first of all, shows that the name change and change in term use so that the name of the Agency will be Iceland's natural disaster insurance and instead of insurance insurance, will be discussed on natural disasters. Second, it is suggested that each year's polls be removed, as they were used out of date by the implementation of a government accountant's law and a review of bank accounts. Third, it is suggested that events resulting from intent or gross neglect are not subject to natural disasters in the sense of the law. The bill's report shows that this is a validation of the current project and comments on Article 4. The bill comes in, including... that the instructions should not be taken, e.g. for an earthquake which is a direct consequence of water degradation during use of earth's heat. The committee noted that the relationship between geographing and real earthquakes was more complex than to determine whether or when a certain earthquake was directly a result of a certain type of earthquake was being carried out. It would probably be impossible to prove a direct causal relationship as well as it was known that the level of water in the earth's surface could force tremors into time, i.e. either delay or delay. If so, companies would often be obliged to pump down water. This would not be dangerous because of the legalization of the law in Article 4. the bill, along with the legal explanation, in its report. The committee agrees with these views and suggests Article 4. The bill will be removed. Encouraged by the Committee to conduct consultations between executives and stakeholders on the limits of improving responsibilities of natural disaster insurance. Fourth, the bill suggests a change to 10 grams. The laws involved in their own risks so that the ratios of their own risks are reduced, while minimum financial values increase their own risk. Is the goal of the change to make better use of the insurance policy so that major damages to major damages will be better than ever, and even small damage will not be protected. Number five has a 13. The bill obligates the law's obligation to reimburse or rebuild damaged homes with certain exceptions described in this article. Sixthly, the bill suggests that the decision to make natural disaster insurance will be simplified to no longer be imposed on by the law that the management of the Agency take sides in the issue of payment, but may be able to tolerate a direct decision to the decision of natural disasters. The Committee discussed, among other things, whether it would be right to adopt a central record of damage to property that would have been improved by natural disaster insurance so that the buyers would have the opportunity to find out if property had been affected and if such things had been done or restored appropriately. The committee feels that such a central registration might be improved and that the benefits and defects of recording will be considered, as well as the best option for this recording. At a meeting with the Commission and in a memo sent by the Committee, the SEC suggests that at the bill there are additional regulations that Iceland's natural disaster insurance should have an efficient risk management system and ensure that enough money is available to deliver a stream of potential reforms, as well as a licence for a minister to further address the requirements for risk management, economic foundations and the financial proficiency of the Agency in the Regulation. Having agreed with the Ministry and Iceland's Correctional Insurance, the Committee agrees with the Commission's proposal and suggests an appropriate change in the bill. The changes the committee suggests follow this committee party and I'm no more going to quote them. Under this view, the above reference work, Óli Björn Kárason, Birgir Þórarinsson, Brístísdótttir Haraldsdóttir - Bradarr Níelsson's son, was absent at the hearing, and signed under a warrant in 4 mgr. 18th par. Coordinators'regulations - The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson's son, Oddný G. Harðardóttir, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, the Þorsteinn of Víglundsson, and Þórunn the Egilsdóttir of Eglils. Ólafur Ísleifsson, an officer of the Committee, agrees with this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u99	A respectable president. I'm not going to extend this discussion in particular. Thank you. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason for reviewing our committee opinion at the moment. The Economic and Business Committee. However, I wanted to come up here and say: " This may be one of the bills that are not important, and at first we thought it was quite simple. But we received a good geology lesson that helped us make a change in an existing bill. In view of the discussion about the bill that was being discussed in the preceding discussion, I mention that many cases are going through here without people being completely aware of what they are discussing. It is often possible to give long talks and to have interesting discussions about such matters. I also wanted to share the information presented in the committee's opinion that a complaint came from the European Union on noncommunication. I'm told, from the Union of Icelandic rural society, that many work groups have come to the realization of a long-term change in repair insurance. But they feel that when a final bill enters the council, there is a lack of consultation. I'd like to arrange that we in this room, and especially in the Council of the Council, with the Commission, and then this discussion, which, of course, is to be addressed, but this bill had not been there for some reason. We are so often considering matters that are so common in other people's hands. Then I'm talking about the other administrative level, the unit level. It is important that we look at things to the end, contact the local administrations, or the Union of Icelandic rural society, and be aware of the final implementation of these laws.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u100	A respectable president. Like what? paritaprevir Bryndís the Haraldsdóttir was able to discuss this matter on a financial and business committee very interesting information on how damage can be done in different ways, by nature or by implementation, etc., and how often it can be difficult to assess the extent of damage, i.e. who is the source of it? It was quite interesting that during this, or about the same time, the International Council's house played in a rage scene because a bomb and a rock was being thrown down right here in the Middle East, where a hall, either called Nasha or the Self - Opportunit, or some names of others, had been torn down. In fact, I thought I had sealed this house up a few years ago. But such things seem to be overlooked, as do so many other things today. All right. There were a lot of projects and, actually, are still, though in relatively small fields. Yet, one experienced that it was like an earthquake. If the house had been damaged, where we hold committee meetings and members of Congress have offices, it might have been concluded that this was the result of the project. But what if there had been an earthquake about the same time? I won't pull this out of thin air. There are examples. We were told on the review of the Committee that it was highly considered, and a few cases cited, if I recall correctly, whether the damage caused by natural disasters or by earthquakes or by executions. It makes it all very difficult. Heavy projects, and nothing necessarily takes huge projects, can produce effects similar to natural disasters. Then, since we have begun to wonder, we must look to the Land Hospital at the Ring Road and what is happening or ahead of us. It's to take my opinion of a completely incomprehensible operation, digging, bombing, throwing away, in a vast area. The thing I mentioned earlier is just a stamp in that comparison. Where is this construction site, most likely to be the largest construction site in the country? Yes, right next to the National Hospital. Patients will then experience similar things as we met during these projects, which are actually not completed. Except they will be near a much larger project, even in some cases even closer. In fact, when the hospital was being built, there was a glimpse of this. At that time, there was agitation in the Land Hospital, the noise was awesome, and even an example that put patients at risk. I've heard such stories from the staff of the Land Hospital. Now this house, the hospital that was supposed to be finished long ago, stood unpublished for quite a while. The question, then, is: With regard to what we are discussing here, if this house had been damaged because of this, is this the result of nature, environment, rain, or construction? Is this a natural product or the result of what was being accomplished? What if people do complete this global complex with all its problems for the city, transportation in Reykjavík, for future patients, and for the staff of the Land Hospital? The damage they suffer cannot be improved by an insurance company. That loss has become and spread to the long future. The talk that has been given around this matter, how damage will be done, and how it might be improved, reminds us that we have been warned, covered below us, where we will go, but will not act where harm is almost given the result.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u101	A respectable president. I would like to recommend the Committee on Economic and Business Affairs after a discussion on the bill for discontinuation of law on the Farmer Pension Fund, No. 12/1999, with subsequent changes. The committee has discussed the matter and has contacted Anna Valbjörg Ólafsdóttir and Haraldur Steinhorsson, Sigurður Eyþórsson, and Borghildur Jónsdóttir from the Bavors and Ólafsson, and K. of Pensia. The committee received information from Iceland's Farms Association, Farmer's Pension Fund, National Department of Pension, Economic and Economic Affairs. The bill is suggested to the Farmer's Penitentiary, No. 12/1999, dropout, and the fund continues to operate on the basis of commitment of pension rights and pension funds, No. 129/1997, and approved to conform to their regulations. However, government funds pay expenses on pension payments that fall on the fund because of the acquired funds made by those born in 1914 or before or by their mates. In 1st. Section 6. the law on the Farmer's Pension Fund shows that the right of the surviving partner was a member of the fund, which was a partner at the end of 1983 for the rest of his life, has not been divided by his partner at the end of 1983. Such rights, however, are based only on acquired rights in the funds at the end of 1983 without extrapolation. The management board of farm farmers has expressed concern that the removal of the law could impair the individual's right to a pension. In the law, the special payment of a pension beyond the standard of pensions that the person would have earned would always have improved and would not be able to measure the court in approved terms. The Committee sought the response of the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs to the comments of the Pension Fund and evaluated the Ministry's evaluation of a law on acquired rights that would not be taken from funds, despite the fall of the law. Track No. 129/1997 granted minimum rights, but in approved pension funds funds could be given better rights to funds companies. The Ministry's memo to the Committee also points out that according to Article 28. track No. 129/1997 will inform the head of the Penitentiary Department of Pension and Economic Affairs on all changes to the approved pension fund. The changes will not be valid until Ministers have confirmed that they meet the legal and legal requirements of the current holding of the pension fund after receiving the Commission's commission. Then also says: To make it clear that the Ministry does not feel permitted to agree with any of the changes in the provisional Penitentiary Fund of Farmers, which includes the violation of the rights of this issue, thereby violating the rights of a single group of justices over others. The group that falls under the rights of Article 6. the law on the pension fund will thus stand as high as it is right after the fall of the law as it is now, and the rights remain in the approved fund and are not premise to accept more damage to the rights of this group than the rest of the pension fund of farmers. A farmer's Department of Pension requested the position of the FESI to see if in sentence 4. Twenty-six. track No. 50/1984, of the Farmer's Penitentiary of Farms, that laid down the lifetime pension rights of a marriage mate would have included violations of the rights of those who had paid in the Farmer's Penitentiary by adding commitments to the fund to a certain group without contributing funds to the fund. At the same time, the fund asked for the Agency's position on whether the pension fund, without correction, would be allowed to pay the current pension of 6. The law on the pension fund. In response to the Commission's transcription of copies, the Agency stated that the commitment of the lifelong pension was merely to the acquired rights of funds and their partners, and that the Agency seemed to have a misunderstanding on the pension fund. The Agency also felt that farmers' Penitentiary Fund would be permitted to pay for a state-of-the-art pension without recovery. Farmer's Penitentiary was set up with the law on the Farmer's Penitentiary, No. 11/1970. In 1 1. The law was given regarding the untimely right of the surviving partner of a carer to a pensioner to meet certain criteria. Comments on the law showed that it was aimed at providing better guarantees for a short pay period in those cases when it might seem that alimony was really needed. Track No. 101/1970 were canceled with new law on farmers' Pension Fund, No. 50/1984, at the beginning of 1984. The right to a mate's pension was that a principle to be reduced to three years after the death of a bank mate, according to Article 11. The new law. In comments we made on the law, we said: It should be noted that with these changes, it is not intended to interfere with the use of acquired rights in accordance with current legislation. Is at 26. it is assumed that when properly stored, it will be stored without extrapolation. Four. Twenty-six. said that after 1983, a treasuremate remained entitled to a pension in accordance with Article 11. track No. 101/1970 because of the points acquired until 1983 in the sense that it would be better than just under the new law. Such a right, however, should be based only on acquired points without extrapolation. The court should drop if funds were used by sources 5. The article to change the rights of a mate. In a comment, we're 26. The bill to the law said: ▪ In this article, we will find various features related to the decision given to the current fund and its rights. For parallel licenses, 2 mg was recommended. 1 1. track No. 12/1999 at their sentence. In comments we made on the law, we said: 0-2, 0-2. is a set of requirements discussed in sections 4 and 5. Twenty-six. current track. By the time they received them, funds were allowed to exchange the rights they had earned at the end of 1983 with their mates. If this was not done, surviving partners were guaranteed the right to a lifelong pension on the acquired rights of their funds at the end of 1983 without extrapolation. The law was given in 1st. Section 6. Law by law No. 78/2006, a change in law No. 12/1999. The committee makes it clear from the prehistory of the law that it was viewed as having the right to a pension that was won by creditors in the frequent law of No. 11/1970. The acquired pension rights are protected by the terms of terms 1st. 72. g. Council of the Republic of Iceland, Code No. 33/144, such as The U.S. Supreme Court of March 17, 2016, trial No. 529/2015. According to the Committee, 1st will be correct. Section 6. track No. 12/1999, the proposed deportation is not eliminated by deportation of law No. 12/1999. On the contrary, as is now being done in grass, a farmers'Department of Penitentiary is obliged to keep the court secure. 136 in the approved fund from 8 June 2012. In the above, the commission suggests that the bill will remain unconvinced. Hv. Councilmen Egilsdóttir Eglursdótttir and Birgir Þórarinsson are signing this opinion in advance of the fact that the right of a surviving partner who became partners by the end of 1983 to a pension for the rest of his life is complete. Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Ishun, an officer of the Committee, agrees with this, taking the warning of Þórunn the Egilsdóttir of Eglil and Þórarinsson, the son of Thorin. Brigs the Brynjar of Níelsson were absent from the case, but he signed by authority at 4 mg. 18th par. Coral regulations of regular committees. Under the thought of this written authority, the one standing here, the Holy Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson, ere. The head of the Economic and Business Committee, Óli Kárason Kálmson, and what? And the men of Buriath, the Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir, and Ólafur the Þór of Gunnarsson, and Braun, the Brynjar of Níelsson, and Thorun the Þorsteinn of Wazlund, the Víglundsson of Harðardóttir G.; the daughter of Hardness, and the daughter of war, which is spoken of before, Birgir the son of Þórarinsson, and Þórunn the Egilsdóttir of Eliil.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u102	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for going through this committee opinion with us. I'd like to ask you what. A senator on this notice as two hours ago. Councilmen repair the Commission's opinion, i.e. Þórunn Egilsdóttir and Þórarinsson, who sign this with a note that the right of the surviving partner is fully secured based on the date mentioned. Now I assume that a thorough discussion has been made in the Committee on this aspect of the matter. In fact, I come up here alone to hear the opinion and opinion of him. A senator and his opinion on whether this aspect of the matter is fully committed. Of course, this is the subject of the committee's opinion. I saw it when I read it over here earlier today. But I'm not smart enough to know if it's clear enough. So I would appreciate it if the senator could review the section of a committee party, which says that this is sufficiently clear, so we don't have to worry about these rights being guaranteed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u103	A respectable president. If there were any doubt in my mind that these rights are guaranteed, I wouldn't recommend this committee party. It's my absolute belief that this right is fully guaranteed. That's right, as a matter of course. A senator noted, however, that this was quite a talk on the committee. Actually, I got interested in this case when I wasn't at the council, i.e. In the midst of my years, when I kept watch on the Council. I noticed this case, following this plot of decommissioning the law, and that farmers' Pension Fund was concerned. The bank account of the Pension Fund was that this article, Article 6. the law would have to be there for the approval of the fund to succeed, i.e. that the approval of the fund would have to be improved. That's what happened to me first. So there was one idea, including. From the local community, to enclose a provisional law on the insurance insurance policy that would take care of these concerns so that the recovery was still present and that the problem would eventually be solved. We discussed this quite a bit on the committee, and we concluded that such a law simply had no value, for acquired rights, by laws already passed and by the approved funds, were rights that could not be taken away. It is not only that the pension fund can provide these rights according to its approval but that it has a direct obligation to do so. This is a legal dispute that has existed between the Department of Pension of Farms and anyone else, I allow to say, who has expressed his opinion of that over the head, of everyone I know of. The report of the Commission is simply that this is not a concern, that the pension fund must grant these acquired rights. In a second answer, I'll also address the financial and economic responses to that point.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u104	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a very clear answer. On his way out of the platform, he said he was going to answer my question without me putting it up on the financial and economic response that are listed at the front of the committee. I was wondering if the senator would think that answer was enough. I'll share my concerns with him. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's son's offer that it is normal and, in fact, probably, to make this known specifically because it is such an enormously important right. On the other hand, it is very good if the committee is quite convinced, and especially why. a member of this committee opinion. It's also good that the Committee has received confirmation and interpretation from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs that the rights there are safe, if you can use that word. No one needs to wonder about what has been observed by farmers' agriculture and status that it is important that the rights that this fine group has earned are not restricted at all. As has been true of the past of those pensions, so have many problems. I'm happy if they can confirm this even more here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u105	A respectable president. So that a farmer's Penitentiary Fund could change his approval - into a grass. 136 of those approved terms are required for this partner's pension - the Ministry of Economics and Economics would need to agree to these changes. That Ministry made it absolutely clear, as indicated in the opinion of the committee, that it would not approve of such changes, for the reason that it was banned. But it is also worth referring to the fact that the corresponding provisions are in the approved other pensions without any particular legal obligation. For example, a similar standard of non - time, or life - style, is given in the approved Stapa pension fund and the Department of Pension. If it's a farm's Penitentiary Fund, it's more of a problem. If this were something that a cashmate would be likely to bring to court, it would happen first, after the pension fund had tried to stop paying off this pension, which he would have to do by getting his approval in the financial and economic agencies. And there's a possibility that such a thing would not happen, the Ministry would not accept such a change, and it says plainly. But, in good terms, it is a legal hazard that has existed since the beginning. The compromise and reasoning support are that by granting these increased rights, others are being taken over the rights of others. That's what worries me. However, this is not to be expected from an approved increase of rights. It's done in other pension funds, and it doesn't need to improve. I'd like to add that a farmer's Department of Pension specifically called on the SEC's opinion, and its answer was very clear on this subject. Again, the SEC considered this to be a misunderstanding. I'm not sure I can explain this better than this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u106	A respectable president. It is for good reason that farmers have a special pension policy. The work of farmers, their status, is in many ways very special. It is quite natural, however, and in my opinion, it is absolutely necessary to compare the ideal farmers with the circumstances in which they live under the terms and circumstances of other classes. This is especially urgent now because we see that most of the country's classes have received considerable compensation and assume that they are going to seek even greater compensation now during the next year's losses. There is only one class that is specifically assumed to be less affordable year after year until 223 C.E., the final year of the government's budget. The current government budget assumes that contributions to farmers and thus their terms, from year to year, will decline while other classes live - and will hopefully live on - are improving. For good reason, then, at that time when they arrived at the farmers'pension fund, they considered a reason to look especially at the status of farmers. It is important to share this bill with the discussion that we do not forget to view something that is different in the status of farmers as a class in their terms, whether in terms of pension or otherwise, than in other classes. Because, of course, this is fully comparable, although farmers do not have the same position to be protected and reformed, as do other classes. What are farmers working and having done for over 1,100 years in Iceland? They're doing one of the most important roles of society, i.e. For we make food, and make food, and keep the strangers alive. The state makes deals with farmers that they take on this role. Just as the state negotiates with the various classes, they solve the many vital roles needed in society; nurses, teachers, doctors, officials, and so on, those who make the State with farmers decide to play this vital role and produce food for us. The more we produce from Icelandic food and consume it at the expense of importers, the better it is for society. It saves us tens of billions of dollars a year, as well as other positive and very important consequences for the society that I plan to trace here only after. I call to the attention of a respectable president that the reason why I'm going to review the importance of Icelandic farming is that I want to highlight why it is necessary to look especially at farmers and how they are shaped, whether we're talking about pension rights or other terms. In addition to providing food and savings, farmers will provide us with access to wholesome, good, clean products. Parts are like the use of antibiotics that are negligible in Iceland, very small in comparison with other countries, and in most cases antibiotics are not used in Icelandic agriculture. It is easy to avoid it while in many other places where agriculture is expelled, but in competition with Icelandic agriculture and in the growing rivalry with Icelandic agriculture, such as the prowess are now, a respected president, with this government that seems to have completely forgotten the importance of Icelandic agriculture, which is used in some places almost as a rule. And not just that. In many places steroids and other medicines and animals are fed on a diet that is not natural to them and that often causes various problems. All of this is just about as far away as we can from Iceland. The value of such things will be appreciated for money. However, these are very real values and weights on the scales mentioned earlier, i.e. the importance of maintaining Icelandic agriculture and making it possible for farmers to serve in Iceland and enjoy a more comfortable dresser. For if the desired farms remain in this country, they will simply reduce their numbers and the benefits of the article will be reduced. Some may say, " Is it not all right for farmers to shrink, and we just grow through and produce as much or more? ' Then I notice a respectable president that farmers and their families, finished, Icelandic family prepareds, the units that have taken care of food production in Iceland from the beginning play a number of roles besides producing food and performing an extremely important social function around the country, all of which contributes to the fact that the country is still largely inhabited. Thus, in many parts of the rural community, communities build on the fact that people are there and live in the area. Farmers, including for the sake of her dresser, some other jobs while living together, driving children to school, taking on a job, and other necessary activities to maintain communities. There is more to say about the importance of farmers in their communities. It's simply that if farmers hadn't built the country then there would have been other occupations that would have been impossible only because the country was built. I'll mention, for example, the largest export of the country, the tourist service. If not for all these regions of the country and transport that link them, etc., would you expect to assume that international tourism would have been as rapid as it has been done.? I just mention these few examples to highlight that the role of farmers in the community is complex and extremely valuable and important. As a result, it is normal and self - determination to make sure that this important class, the foundation of society, enjoys nitwits that are comparable to other classes. I'll expect this afternoon's talk about the importance of agriculture, but also about its current situation, right now, and the dangers of the current government policy, especially with regard to agriculture and how we can react to it in order to ensure that we maintain a powerful Icelandic agriculture policy. Of course, it is, as this matter involves, the ideal farmers, both during work and after their working years, fundamentally.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u107	Mr. President. This bill suggests the Farmer's Penitentiary, No. 12/1999, dropout, and the fund continues to operate on the basis of commitment of pension rights and pension funds, No. 129/1997, and the approved protocols of these regulations. However, government funds continue to pay the expenses of pension payments that fall on the fund because of the acquired financial institutions born to 1914 or before or to their mates, as noted in the committee opinion. In 1st. Section 6. the law on the Farmer's Pension Fund is a reference to the rights of a surviving partner who became a partner at the expense of 1983 for the rest of her life as a partner did not exchange her rights with his partner at the end of 1983. Such rights, however, are based only on acquired rights in the funds at the end of 1983 without extrapolation. The Department of Farmer's Penitentiary has expressed concern that the discontinuation of the law could impair the individual's right to a pension. Mr. President. The management of Iceland's Women's Rights Association is concerned with farm farmers' Pension Fund, killing 6. The current law on the Farmer's Penitentiary is impaired by the rights of farmers and, in most cases, women who were not paid their own money for 1984. The management of Iceland's Women's Rights Association declares its opposition to such violations of women's rights in the peasant class. There has been an differences in the management of farms of Pension and the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs on how to handle the current 6. in the law of the Penitentiary of Farms of Life, to a surviving partner who has neither received such rights for his rights or for the expeditation of the deceased mate by the removal of the law, whether it is necessary that the fund be cleared to pay such a pension, or whether the General Assembly has violated the property of those who have paid and have rights, by putting such commitments on the fund without having made a contribution from the state's fund. Six. track No. 12/1999, about the Farmer's Penitentiary Penitentiary Penitentiary, is required for the specific payment of pension beyond the standard of pension that the person earns, the life span of a widow's pension to a surviving mate who has not personally received the legal rights of the fund, either for her own rights or for the expeditation of the deceased mate. If a farmer fell from who acquired the rights of 1971-1983 when his or her spouses were not legally authorized to pay off his partner's fee rights of normal pension to all farmer's rights for two years as per standard. After that time, the mate has just a lifetime pension to half of the rights the farmer earned in 1971 ◯1983 had no rights previously been divided between husband and wife. The review of the Farmer's Penitentiary provides the assessment that the fund was strictly forbidden to place in such inaccessible rights without climatic and unsurpassed rights for a group of taxpayers who base their rights on traditional rights work. Such payment must impair the rights of other sources with acquired rights. If the law is canceled, the Farmer's Department of Penitentiary feels that there is a need for improvement in the lack of information provided for the pension for the rest of their lives and that it is therefore necessary to meet them with the equivalent budget from the state's budget. Here is the legitimate concern of farmers' Pension Fund and the legitimate concern of farmers over their heads, and well understood, Mr. President, because this society is infested with farmers. It is perfectly normal for farmers not to trust that this will be guaranteed, do not trust the government, because it has shown itself in dealing with the government, and recently there is no consultation with farmers in important matters. There I would like to mention a customs agreement with the European Union, which went into effect on May 1. That contract has a significant impact on the ideal farmers. It allows for the import of agricultural products, meats and cheeses to be mentioned, to the extent that it plays a significant role in domestic agricultural production. It is natural for farmers to be concerned with this case because, for example, the European Union has the privilege of moving to the country 610 tons of cheese the same time Icelandic farmers are allowed to move 50 tons to the European Union. Everyone sees it's a very different deal, and I've traced it to a speaker before. When it comes to negotiating such an important business with international negotiations, parties always agree with their stakeholders. In this case, the Icelandic Convention Committee was to consult with a farm organization in Iceland in the Convention, but it was done only on a very limited scale. I have the authority that the European Commission, which wrote on behalf of the European Union... was in constant contact with its stakeholders in the European Union, which were natural farmers, farms, etc. As I'm saying, it's perfectly normal for farmers not to trust governments and worry about the changes presented here in the Farmer's Penitentiary. The guy standing here had a meeting. The Economic and Business Committee, when reviewed by the Committee, agreed with them that it is absolutely certain that the rights that are now specifically defined in the law on the Penitentiary of Farms, which are fully assured of the rights of a marriage mate. The chairman of the Committee assured members that these important rights would be guaranteed, although the law would be removed. Mr. President. I trust it will be.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u108	A respectable president. I recommend here for bill to correct customs change, No. 88/2005, which has been distributed to the threshing floor. 749. If the bill is approved, the Icelanders have taken a significant step in supporting the less developed countries of the world, known as the LDC. With the approval of the Icelandic government, the declarations given at the World Trade Organization have been made by the U.S. With these declarations, the Icelandic government has participated in international cooperation, aiming to promote economic prosperity and sustainable development of the countries affected by the process of development. The LDC countries share in common that there are low income and income potentials. Then the states are faced with a significant lack of infrastructure and planning. In many respects, this situation allows countries to be self-sufficient and to cope with environmental and economic difficulties. The LDC countries are supported by the international community, especially in developing and business. The United Nations presents a list of LDC countries, but the list is updated every three years by the United Nations Economic and Social Council. At present there are 47 states on the list, but two states are likely to move from the list in the near future. Several products that are listed in LDC countries have enjoyed more serious tax benefits since the middle of 2001. The bill expects the number of these products to be increased. If approved, products that fall under 97% of customs records in Annex I of customs law will be free of tolls. Only tolls are provided for the import of a product that falls to the toll number in 1,◯24. section toll files in Annex I to customs. Under that section, you will suffer. live animals, meats, fish, dairy products, plant products, food, food plants, fruits, etc. Special attention was given to the agreement of the bill that protection of the most vulnerable products will not be impaired in the interest of national agricultural products. The bill also suggests that a minister should be authorized by the Regulation of specific national regulations for product origins established in LDC countries. There are agreements on the origins of free trade agreements, but since the tax benefits are to be provided on a one-way basis, special rules for origins must be set. The rules will be in accordance with the subject of the Ministerial Decision on Sources of Import from LDC, which was approved at the International Business Institute in connection with a so-called Nairobi interview in December 2015. The rules are also special in the sense that with the LDC countries providing room for the processing of goods, accumulations, sources demand and implementations that other countries do not enjoy. In view of the historical import of a product produced in the LDC countries, the impact of the approved bill can be expected to be negligible, whether in terms of public interest, on key stakeholders, or on the administration of the state. Based on the import and pressures of toll 2015-2017, the impact of the proposal on state funds due to the lower toll income may be negative by 3.5 million. K. every year. However, it should be regarded as negligible according to Icelandic conditions, but it can be the subject of big business in the LDC countries. The bill is written at the Ministry of Economics and Economics. This was made in close consultation with the Food and Agriculture Office at the Department of Employment and Development, the State Department business office, and toll manager office. I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee for the 1st. Over.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u109	Mr. President. I'd like to thank the Minister for presenting this bill, but also for asking a few questions. That is what is said here, in an article on page 19. 4, with permission to the highest. President: The TV is intended to have a positive effect in the LDC countries. Based on the limited data available on the share of the sex in the export work sectors in the EU, it is difficult to estimate the impact of the human benefit on gender. Among other things, these are exports from these fine lands on flowers and more. I'd like to know if before, when the bill was written, there was some information on the status of those who work in these countries. I recall that Danir, for example, recently banned flower transport from certain African countries, where they believed that they had evidence that they were damaged by those who worked in flower growth and flower harvests, mostly by women. That's why I'd like to know if it's the highest. A minister has any information on this or if it has been investigated in any way. And perhaps afterward, whether there is a possibility or wish that the government will cause the situation of those who work in this business in these countries to be improved in some way or made sure that these people are not damaged and that their rights are in such a way that we can accept. I would very much appreciate the answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u110	Mr. President. Of course, when you ask for information in your reports or reports, they are very limited in these areas. We are here making changes that include helping with the poorest countries in the world. It's important that we do that. This can be of utmost importance to the areas involved here. That's what I'm talking about. A senator in particular asks the general answer to the general issue of human rights. It matters, and we make demands and do what we can to promote the view that people are working in decent circumstances and that they are being reasonable in doing so. But exactly what data are available on the basis of what is recommended here, I cannot comment on in this chair. I expect the Committee to request further information if it feels lacking and is not clearly presented in the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u111	V.E.G. President. In many parts of this hall, we are now willing to move in cheap agricultural products in order to reduce goods in Iceland, although in itself inexpensive agricultural products have not been inexpensive in Iceland when they arrived over the store table. The question is, What price are we having to buy that little price? Thus, in both Asia and Europe, we know that people who work in food production are enslaved. I value chicken production in Thailand, where slaves from Myanmar are suspected to be employed. This situation even looks for Europe. For example, news reports last summer revealed that Romanian women who were transferred to the Sik State to work on vegan recording were sexually abused. When those involved and used these women as sexual slaves along with their crops were asked what was involved, they said: "If we didn't have cheap work force here, we wouldn't be able to sell our production. I ask myself, " Do I want to have cheap production on any basis? ' For example, do we want to buy cheap agricultural products if we know or suspect that behind that low price there is slavery, abuse? Is that what we want? I don't think so. That's why I'm reiterate it at the highest. Minister, that there will be a full check as far as possible whether in the countries involved here there is a risk of some of the things I was taking back here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u112	Mr. President. The products presented here are exceptionally desirable, considered to be the most sensitive interests of national manufacturers, agricultural products, i.e. The ocean and the other meat products, dairy products, and uncut flowers - their protection will not be reduced by this bill. In general about this matter: Of course, we are sharing in international cooperation. We believe and know for ourselves that free business helps people in underdeveloped lands. Our situation would not be the same if we did not have free business and access to other markets. But if you do. A senator needs to ask a House of Congress or me if we want to make products that are produced in a miserable situation where women and people are being abused, I think the answer to that is obvious. I don't know how to answer that other than that we're making this statement here because it's part of a worldwide partnership, and we believe that we're doing so in order to benefit the people who live there to get to a better place in the countries where it lives. That's why we're making this offer. I'll mention again that if there is any further information missing that is not included in the report, they should be requested on the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u113	A respectable president. Overall, I consider this to be a positive matter. However, there are a number of opinions that would make it interesting to hear the highest opinion. The minister on it. Hv. paritaprevir Sæmundsson mentioned some of them earlier, but what I'm wondering in this context is quite broad. I would be interested to hear, even if only the minister's opinion of these matters if the minister is willing to do so. I realize that the minister to which there is an answer for the matter is only a successful financial minister. In those cases at the highest level. However, a minister does not have an answer to an angry person, but it would be interesting to hear a assessment or an assessment of the highest degree. Minister on the polls. First, what I consider to be positive and important in this matter. The problems of poor countries, developing countries often and often result - some would always say because there is no functioning, normal markets, i.e. The market's not working. People cannot sell their products, so they don't have jobs, they don't make money, etc. There are a number of reasons. In some cases, business isolation, as it were, has held back their potential to develop and build up. In fact, Iceland is, well-meaning, a very open country in business with the outside world, compared with what is customary in many other places, including of the European Union. Not to be overlooked is the fact that the European Union is a toll alliance. It's about the tollamurs that lie around the coalition. Iceland has much bigger - or allows, let's say, freer than the European Union, and I think I can say most countries around the world. It is important for countries that are recovering from the opportunity to sell their products, use their resources, and use the services of the nations established by the countries. However, this will be of limited value unless there is a rule, a tradition in some cases, a culture that enables the public in these countries to benefit from work, of its value. In fact, there are cases of Western countries in their efforts to support development even for markets in developing countries. Examples are in place where human production has been initiated, e.g. food for local markets and building agriculture, but more advanced countries have so added to the market, as it were, some of their excess production and, yes, solved the problems of some for a short time than at the same time, the market and possibilities, the nation or those who were building up the sector within the state, should continue to build it up and become a sustainable sector, so I use the popular word. An article that could support the needs of food production and the building of valuable things in the country. However, in the case of exporting, and here we are concerned that Iceland and other countries are increasing their resources from these countries, without adding to the customs, they also need to be considered that the situation within the country's origins, but in other ways, as well. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson came in earlier. Then I come to what I'm particularly interested in hearing the minister's opinion of: Is it not possible that if the public is being used in these countries to produce something of a crisis even under dangerous circumstances, on account of either corrupt government, even criminal cases or foreign companies that come into these countries and in a certain way use poverty, that we are promoting such activity if we do not look to these factors? Even a rich person does not need to be poor or become ill in order to face such a crisis and to become ill. I'll give Argentina an example. Argentine had become very developed in the early 20th century, and it was a nation with enormous wealth in different fields, especially in food production, but also in industrialized countries. A country that had a lot of business with countries around the world. The thing about Argentina was that they sold away the resources of the country, the production to foreign sources. When the land was in such trouble, all the money from it came out of the country of Argentina. The country could not use the production capacity, could not use the resources to cope with economic hardships because its yield was so abundant that it ran out of the country. So I wondered, " Do I not have to try at least in some way that these catalyses have come to the advantage of what is intended for them, i.e. The construction of valuables in the states so that these poor countries can enjoy what Iceland enjoyed in its time. After being a poor country, Iceland was able to defend its interests when it gained real independence, as we discussed only in the previous case, a respectable president. They could use their resources for society and as much of the people's resources to build up society in that country. It is of little value in letting any country's products away, reporting Haiti, taxing if all the proceeds go to companies that may be taking advantage of the country's plight, and setting things straight, even establishing the problem. In other words, cutting down the possibilities for the land to be built up, contrary to this bill, is intended to succeed. I realize this is a very difficult matter to have. To build up countries that have fallen into a negative chain reaction to poverty is a very complex and big task. Much of it is the fact that many of the world's poorest states, perhaps most of them, I think it is safe to say, the poorest countries in the world are controlled by governments that are not always taking care of total interest or that the benefits that are achieved by the building of society all. In fact, I'm going to keep that caution, a respectable president, saying that it is difficult to draw the line where it exists, but I think we can all agree that in a very large part of the poorest countries, the problem is not least in government. We in Iceland were lucky, after being Europe's poorest states, as they sometimes say, not so long ago. We were so lucky to live with certain social infrastructures. A certain culture, a particular tradition, a democracy tradition including, a tradition of education that enabled us to make full use of it, sort of right from the start, the opportunities that the sovereignty gave us. As I was able to use earlier, the opportunities to make the most of what we shared, the opportunities we had, the production capacity of the resources, and the vast majority of these valuable things are useful to the building of society. As a result, this structure has been pure and few examples are about the rate of the economic structure of any country, I think it is safe to say. Here, natural conditions are difficult, natural hazards are difficult to deal with. The land is relatively large and hard to measure up to the number of people. We are geographically isolated, but the interiors that were there and the knowledge that was here, but perhaps most of all, the tradition of doing things democraticly and using them, using our education, took advantage of us to earn it. Unfortunately, many of the countries that are discussed in this bill are missing, together with a debate about the bill, because it's about motivation, whether we can in any way out of the above, create incentive for the development we've experienced in Iceland during the past century, to be reached in these 50 countries, or how many of these are now under the definition of the most advanced countries. Could it be, then, that some conditions need to be established in what way the products of these benefits are being enjoyed? Or is it rather true that the goodly things are conditioned? Of course, there is no requirement that we buy only products that the farmer has made and packed and sent. Of course, companies and people with experience and knowledge of production and business have to come in order to be practical and practical for these countries to export them. I wondered how this bill can best achieve its goal: Is there any way that it would encourage the products to enjoy the benefits, their production is designed to promote what this matter is actually intended to achieve, i.e. Buildings in the land, in the poor country, but do not contribute to potentially large enterprises from other countries even when criminal groups use these provisions to produce goods, even by slavery, like a whale. paritaprevir Sæmundsson mentioned earlier, and do you enjoy special benefits when exporting the product? It's the highest. A minister of some means?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u114	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir So, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson was eager for this speech. We are taking this step, of course, in the hope that opening up Icelandic market will give these poorest nations greater opportunities to move forward, build up the infrastructure, build up the infidelity, establish a real government system where it is missing, etc. In modern history, we are well acquainted with the very way that government and misrule can destroy even prosperous kingdoms, such as. For example, Venezuela. Of course, we're taking steps, I think it's reasonable and healthy, to give these poorest nations access to the Icelandic market. That is a far more reasonable way than it is. to provide direct support for development in money. We are not particularly experienced in this regard. This, however, results in a much better experience. I think it is important for us to realize that the basis for these poor nations to develop their economy, to improve their standard of living, is access to foreign markets. Just as it was necessary for us Icelanders to leave the poorest European states in one of the richest places in the world to have safe access to foreign markets, especially seafood. I hope so. A senator would agree with me on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u115	A respectable president. I'd like to make it clear that I'm in favor of this case. I think it's desirable to be successful, because I agree with that opinion. paritaprevir Óli Kárason's son that if poor countries are really to recover and can build up, they need access to markets. In Iceland, we know the importance of international commerce. But what I'm wondering is, is it possible to create a stronger incentive for this matter to produce the desired results and even some obstacles to prevent this or even the opportunity to abuse these countries more than I mentioned, whether it is of the government itself or of some foreign authority or of the local criminal groups as I mentioned? It must be acknowledged, however, that it is quite difficult to monitor all the productions we were going to move to Iceland. But see what? A member of the council some way, and now I'm going to allow myself to rest. A senator who is opposed to me is asking him and hoping that he will accept it for at least in the big movie that we can have some positive incentives in this regard? And perhaps we could have some obstacles to prevent even large countries that are moving up on the farm buying up virtually whole countries and using them as a center for cheap production. Then I'd especially like to guess, Madam President--no, I'll have to do it in the next answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u116	Madam President. I am convinced that some of the best ways to influence poor countries, influence government in poor lands, is to do business with them. That opens the conversation, starting with our own eyes watching the country, because we do business with what we didn't have before. A country we didn't know before. In itself, it should be some kind of built-in surveillance system for us in this regard. But what I'm more concerned about is that these countries, many of them, are experiencing much injustice at the hands of industrialized countries, which import goods into these countries, especially farm - making products. This import in the shelter of taxpayers in Europe, since this is now primarily the European Union, France, quite specifically, has in some cases destroyed the agriculture of these countries. And I think we should take this international conversation, how we, in the power of our wealth, subsidize products and products to these poorest countries, thus destroying their potential to produce domestic products and produce export products. That's what I'm talking about. A senator agreed with me on this?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u117	A respectable president. I agree completely, and I only came into this in my speech earlier, this vandalism, there's no other way to call it what's involved when excess production is piled into the market, being thrown into the market on subsidiary to get rid of the goods. In fact, we want to avoid this in Iceland too, that the European Union is ingesting and destroying excess production on our market. Although we have succeeded in building our valuable creations and productions, we do not want to risk destroying what has been built up for centuries. This is a concern, I agree, and it's amazing how many European countries have gone far in these areas. In fact, on the fishing grounds, where the European Union's fleet has been abducted by poor countries and has even destroyed whole fish stocks. I want to finish what I was going to mention earlier. Of course, it's normal that less pay is paid, I'll admit it, in poorer countries, even necessary for the production from there to be competitive, and men to build up. I am reporting as an example to Japan, who developed an incredible success in building up the modern industrial and technological power of the country, having been competitive because of less pay production, but then developed a higher quality of production, which means that the Japanese could gradually increase their salary, increase prosperity, and now compete with the world on the basis of the quality of production, technology, and industrial progress. This, of course, is the trend we want to see in poorer countries that they can gradually build up themselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u118	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start with what I must have neglected earlier, thanks to the highest. Minister for excellent answers to me just now. Now I realize that she is here as a substitute, and I'm not going to take advantage of it by drawing up some question that I know she may not be able to comment quickly. But what I'm going to say is that I'm still kind of at the same barnacle as before. V.E.G. A minister said that we were in international cooperation, and that is absolutely correct. We are. We are in a group of countries with hundreds of years of colonial experience, including, of course, the World Trade Organization. It doesn't necessarily have to be a highly underdeveloped country to put a good promise into it, but so much knows that the World Trade Organization is not a Boy Scout Society, it's not just to do good to the poor peoples, but to profit ourselves, we don't have to look very far again. At one time, half a century ago, the first agreements that this nation made for electricity treats were not on many fish. They weren't very important. We're still chasing tails on those people who are here with investments to make sure they pay natural taxes and duties. We're not alone. The Irish follow international circles that have flocked to Ireland and the Netherlands to escape taxes. It's a global problem. Of course, poor and underdeveloped countries where the regime is powerless and even corrupt are even more at risk and even worse prepared to accept humans who have hundreds of years of experience in colonial rape and decades'experience in running business anywhere in the world. That is why I strongly emphasize that the rights of these nations we are about to extend a helping hand if we can put it that way is guaranteed. And, of course, one wants and knows that free business is coming to raise a boat for these nations, now isolated and never to be fed. I read very recently that the Dutch put sprouts in pots, fly to south countries, e.g. Africans, let their pots stand in the sun for a few weeks, and flowers run up as in the garden of old, moved back to Holland by a similar machine, placed in the cello - and what do we have? Dutch tulips, Vaga. Cash gangs anywhere in the European Union. They just grew up in Africa. Don't leave this much behind. There are these things you're afraid of. Like that mean example I traced back to my counter: I only began to gulp in my head about this one thing I took with Denmark last year. Danir banned the import of cut flowers from Uganda, I think I was, because they knew that the workers were being treated badly, especially women, in every way. This is what we need to avoid, and this is what we need to have a guarantee that we will not happen in our name. That we are not part of one of the greatest treaties in the world, come in like horsemen on a white horse; that people or lands or societies will be abused in our name. It's really annoying. After the story we have of ourselves, after the humiliation of 1,300,9900 with little openings, we should understand it if anyone is supposed to understand it. We have not done much of it to shed blood for the land in which we live. With all due respect for the lives of the war, e.g. in the second world war, we haven't had to fight for this country to keep our breaths shut. Still, we know exactly what it is to live under foreign oppression. Therefore, we are to understand it better than many others, and we are to consider more than many others to enter a society that is powerless and immature and endeavor to strive to see that it is not abused, as I said, in our name. So much is certain, and you also know that a great empire like China has been buying everything under the earth in many countries of Africa. No matter what, silver, toad, gold, precious stones. Everything. What do they do instead? Yes, they say they're coming with development support. What does it involve? They have built, for example, entire cities in Angola, where no native can simply live because the home is too expensive. And who will live there? Yes, there are workers from China who have been taken to the country to work on a project that is being done and that is, in effect, supposed to be for the benefit of natives and their society. It's just that I'm stressing, that's something we need to be careful about. This is something we need to know, and something that the committee involved here has to step in. We must know what we know before we are subject to some condition that we do not want. Now, as I traced earlier, even in Europe people are being abused, especially women, who are transferred from poorer parts of Europe and who are allowed to work on the product of vegetables and are so abused in favor. One more thing: Hv. paritaprevir Óli Kárason Kálmson pushed something in my head, and we were talking about, that industrial nations have filled the market of less expensive products, thus destroying their own production. One of the saddest things I know about this is Haiti. The great earthquake occurred some years ago in Haiti, where rice was literally cultivated in the backyard. Of course, the earthquake destroyed that much. What happened then? Yes, the United States of America, the supervillain of the free world, at the head of the world's free trade, burst in with rice, subsidies, which were produced in Arkansas. What happened? They destroyed this world's production and cut down the basis for existence from these people who have just come up from an earthquake and have not recovered since then. For one thing, that's why. This is one more thing that we must strive not to be done in our name. Just as we have to protect ourselves from being done here, as mentioned earlier. Even if this is a good matter and is well - thought - out, we need to be careful. As soon as this calamity strikes, we will be involved in the calamity as part of this case. We do not want to bring calamity upon other people. This matter is good, but it requires the vigilance that I have made clear in my speech. We need to be absolutely sure that we are not among the nations who abuse the situation in which these poorest people live on earth. On trips abroad, you have been buying a garment that costs a pound, a cotton garment. I must admit that every time I buy such a garment, I think to myself, " What did the cotton farmer get? ' What did he get? Who asked? Was it a child? Or was it a very old woman who has slaved all her life? It is as if we do not sometimes realize how well we are set. It appeared of that film a few years ago where men in Pakistan, rather than Bangladesh, were bowing to rugs sold in a shopping chain, including. Iceland They stood up in the waist of a scratch so that the mats we bought would be white enough. So I'm telling all of this that I don't think we're careful consumers when we're buying any goods. We do not look at how the product is given, who worked in it, under what circumstances. We just watch it as cheap, and that's why we're buying it. But the conscience is not in itself. We closed our eyes to see that behind one vegetable machine or one T-shirt may be a history of abuse and cruelty. We don't care, because the product is cheap. We'll just keep it in our heads and close our eyes on it. In this case, which is truly good, let us not make a mistake. Let us not be known by going into less developed lands, such as the Ribbal of the previous centuries, which were human colonials for centuries. It is not the company we should be in and not the methods we should use, not the methods we should submit to or accept. But with all these omens, I hope that the case is well discussed in the Committee. I strongly encourage the committee to call for all possible information on the details that I have addressed, so that we are absolutely certain, as sure as we can be, that we are not participating in unpleasantness to those of us who may be the most vulnerable and who can least be a hand for their heads.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u119	Madam President. I would like to express special pleasure in this matter. This is of utmost importance to the State. Here we are talking about providing an increased market access to 47 of the world's poorest markets with their products in our markets. This is in harmony with our commitment to the International Business Organization. It is disappointing for us to accept this commitment by making a declaration on May 3, 2000; it has taken us 18 years to cough up this matter. We could certainly have moved faster in that regard. You see, this is an enormous matter. As we look at these poorest countries and their tools for improving their interests, in many cases they focus primarily on the production and marketing of agricultural products. The Western nations have shown great duplicating over the years, not more often, but more frequently, to provide development support to countries as these in the form of subsidies, even free agricultural products, which then pass the food production of that country near the dead and leave the country less stable when the assistance is completed. In fact, farmers of the country have been driven to sea, and they cannot compete with the wealth of subsidies from countries that claim to be helping. It is very important in our development cooperation that we make sure that we help to build employment in the Member States, help them to self-help them, and, at the same time, share in securing their markets with their products. That's right, as a matter of fact. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's coming in, there's a lot of hell to stay out of this. But it is also important to remember that we are primarily trying to create these countries an opportunity to build up our economy. It would be good for us to bear in mind that we personally build our economy up by receiving such opportunities, marketing with our products. That is why I think we should look at this positive view, even though it is true that we need to look to the threats to those countries. We cannot control their local affairs, do not control how they operate their resource management, do not control how they conditions their foreign investment which may be included in these sectors to make good markets available to large market areas, such as Europe. But I think that's all there is to it, that's primarily meant to create these same countries the opportunity for economic growth and sustainableity in the future. There are many lessons that we have learned from personal experience. It is good to keep in mind, for example, when looking at resource use - we are trying to ensure that the resource owner, i.e. The nation, receiving an acceptable price for the use of that resource, regardless of whether it is a domestic or a foreign person - is of enormous importance. It is knowledge that we can impart to kingdoms as these. We know the positive experience of such a foreign investment in articles such as this. Our power sector. We were able to start using our energy resources in the power of foreign investments, which brought in technology and funding to use the same resources. We would hardly have been able to finance such automation without any investment. We stand here just a few decades later with a very productive energy industry that has grown in many directions other than just the industrial industry itself. Many technical companies, for example, work around these articles. I think opening market access, as here is being done, was extremely important for poor countries as this one. This creates the opportunity that others may acquire. That's why it's a very positive matter, and I'm glad it's finally done.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u120	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson is very, very fond of speech. I'd like to know - if he came in, I'd miss that point, but in part he sounds like he's talking about it - about the import of developed agricultural products into these poor countries. I wanted to know if he would normally develop a state such as France, a daughter, if we would use it for wording, food into the market of these economic underdeveloped countries. If he came in on this, I would miss it, but it would be interesting to hear his opinion on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u121	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. No, I came back to my brief speech that it has just been one of the problems of these countries these twins, which, in particular, have been shown in the Western countries, have been providing support for development, within the foals, by providing subsidies or by selling very low prices on this market, and by diluting food production at home. It's very unnatural. It's a showdown, so to speak. In this case, rich countries, which have little to do with agricultural production, are digging away even the key elements of the countries in this way. It's very serious. However, they look at a change of viewpoint in these areas, so I take special delight in this bill. It is in the very spirit of turning this around and rather opening market access for these countries to our markets, where people with much more money are living and often expect to pay a considerably higher price for these products, if they are not killed. Therefore, it is so important to have this toll free access to our markets and other Western markets, in order to create these countries for the future, and to give up this practice, to be a substantially subsidized agricultural product at a very low level, or even, as normal, for a long time and in some respects, to provide food as long-term development aid. We're supposed to build food production in the countries, but we're not going to use it as an area to eliminate our food products.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u122	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator is a great man for the counter-sponsored. While it is obvious to all of us in Iceland, there is no developing state with the 47 countries involved in this definition according to the latest list, I would like to ask you why. A member of the Parliament as a member of the Parliament at Resurrection. He gave good reason why should not subsidized products be brought into these countries and therefore undermined by food production in the home area. That's why I'd like to ask. Senator: Does this seem different to Icelandic agricultural production? Importing, within the petals of a subsidian, e.g. European agricultural or food production in Iceland, does it look different simply because Iceland is not a developing country? I don't think it's clear that the cost of agricultural production at home is quite different from the rest of Europe and the subsidies there, as we know in most places even greater than here. This would be an interesting introduction, although this did not directly affect the toll freeness of the countries that fall under this last Developed Countess definition.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u123	Madam President. Of course, it does look quite different just for the fundamental reason that we are referring to these poorest countries, perhaps building their vast majority of land production on food production while our food production, such agriculture, is thought to be in some percent of the land's production. Although agriculture is important in this country and will not minimize its importance, especially for urban development, and we just want to support and promote agriculture, our position is very different to address the import that is usually on the basis of mutual agreements. We are then trying to ensure against our agriculture or fishing markets at an advantage in a foreign market. Of course, we are in international cooperation in this context, voluntarily opening up markets to this point, against the market availability of our products in a foreign market. I feel that there is a fundamental difference in our position against these poorest countries whose livelihood is drenched in their agricultural production. So, yes, I think there's a significant difference.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u124	A respectable president. I thank the Minister for an excellent initial review of his history, and first, I want him to know that I think this is the best and that many good things can be achieved by a free trade. This, of course, is the only real way in which these underdeveloped nations can survive the poverty they live in. What I wanted to come in here and call attention to is that on this list, the last Developed Countess, LDC as this group of people are now 47 nations. For example, in May 2000, U.S.A., an party took place. What worries me most is that at this time, only five nations have avoided falling under these three definitions of poverty or economic situation needed to fit - that is six? Hv. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson corrected me here. It's like someone said, "I should have Googled better." [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] It then takes six definitions to be within that range. The fact that after 18 years, 47 nations are still on that list and only five - is to be appreciated, though, there are five nations. Wants to play. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson has corrected me again and has said that there are six nations? Now I think he's picking on me. Nevertheless, it will go quite slowly, and with this continuation, it will take us 100 years to raise those nations from the poverty they live in. Because of government and other domestic problems, while new nations come in there. I think it would be interesting to go through it, and then on the basis of the development assistant needle, to consider whether there are ways to support either this increased free trade or in some other way to help these nations out of this run - down state, to make them a better client in the world business, and to follow the standard and standard of living for the inhabitants of these nations. It's incredibly recent since Iceland would probably have been met by someone, if not all, of these conditions. I don't know the conditions out of the blue, but as we all know as we know here, Iceland was among the poorest nations in Europe, if not the poorest, not a very long time ago. This shows that by wise government and open international commerce, poor nations have the potential to get out of their former status, now in the case of those 47 nations. True, this decision is positive in the right direction. I would like to direct the question to the minister if there were any more findings in this context. Although this deal is the way it is, I am aware that there are other aspects of the operation that are being watched in this context, as it is clear to all that reaching six nations out of this list during the 18 - year period is slow, unfortunately. Not long ago, a former metropolitan nation, such as Venezuela, was an economicly strong country that has become the product of home - to - house trouble because of government in a kind of way of hope and unfortunately has been alone there for a long time. More could be given to such behaviors that these nations will be more likely to live up to those standards and thus bring new ones to that list. There is much work to do in reducing these nations and trying to reduce them relatively fast. I think we at the council should look to the advice that's likely to work. Patches to home bridges do very little to help with real problems in these remote areas. I think we need to focus on the problems and even look at them, as it is done in this case, by this recovery of customs agreements, to assist further in the distances, in the area of our home, to assist people, and after experiences by communities to move toward better homes instead of having the support of the focus here, so to speak, in the area of Iceland. I don't intend to keep these words for now, but I just want to reiterate what I said earlier, it's a good step, but I think we, along with the more successful nations, should look to the real problems in these areas and in these nations. Sadly, if the problem is at home and nothing is done, there is a great windmill battle ahead to each such nation, but we need to identify the problem and deal with it with solutions that are actually likely to produce results, not just to make us feel comfortable with it, but to improve the success of the citizens of these fine nations.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u125	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For Ólason's speech, Bergthhir. I listened to the talks of other senators before and like the progress of the minister for whom I appreciate it. I'm just trying to figure out what this bill is doing and I'm kind of wet behind those materials, but it's really interesting to listen to it, and it's a warm feeling. I heard in front of it before that the senators were wondering what Iceland could do about these matters. As noted in the Senate speech, in the past 18 years only six nations have come out of this acronym, LDC. I'd like to ask the senator, "Does he have any advice on what Iceland might do? I heard earlier that we could offer these states some sort of direct business, and put ourselves in touch with them. That would be a step in the right direction. Does the senator feel that question or answer it?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u126	A respectable president. I think the closest ways to these nations are increasing business, increasing the export of these nations, but perhaps to a large extent, supporting the internal structure, as it were. For many of those nations, government has become a mess. One country on this list is Sierra Leone, who has, unfortunately, been in such a state for so long that it is governmently very bad, and you are always afraid that the money that leads to such countries will end to a great deal in the pockets of the pockets and warm up the wicked indecisions or gains. What is most likely to support the development of these countries are, as I say, more free business, more enlightenment and knowledge, in whatever way it could be applied. I don't have the answer to that question, but obviously an available answer, and I get a way that includes. This bill is about to prepare for more business. I think they're at the top of the order, but then we need to support our growth in the areas in which we live, either by ourselves or by the worldwide work we are in.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u127	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for that answer. The Senator named Sierra Leone, and there's some company and people from here with help. They may not be directly involved, but we are helping there. I also singled out in an earlier speech that Iceland and I must be on our own alert to our food production, such as by agriculture, to protect agricultural products, as we have done. If we opened up free trades with them, we might be at risk of getting into the country cheap products for food that are not good for human consumption. Does the senator see a potential danger in such matters? Do we need to be careful, just like any of these underdeveloped countries, not to fall into the old pit again?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u128	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Páll Jónsson's Sigurður for his second answer. Of course, we need to keep this in mind very seriously. While it is, of course, not in the countries mentioned today, we have agricultural production and food production in Iceland, which is one of the cleanest things in the world. There's a situation that we may not be able to get back if we lose it. Both are on health grounds, and then I think it's just part of a country that's based on supporting its domestic food production and agriculture. We see this being done all around us, no matter whether we look west through the sea, to the United States, or to Europe. There, in spite of a much more difficult culture conditions in long chapters here than in many of our control countries, support is available in many areas. I think that what has been going on in these underdeveloped countries, where developed nations have been removing overproduction of low prices, is one of the biggest problems we face in these nations. Involved agriculture does not cover the limits necessary to work in a preconceivably way simply because of its arrival, sometimes on the basis of development aid, large food shipments that no one is competing for protection in the local market, causing irreparable damage to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u129	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his speech. I have to admit that I didn't quite hear her start but tried to listen to the rest, was far from quite sure which way. A senator would be in favor of the case or not, until the end of the matter immediately. A senator said he thought it was a good step. I wanted to hear a little more from what I heard. A senator, how he saw one - sided deposits on customs in general. Here we're talking 47 states, talking about 97% of the customs class, reminds me that it's called, and making this one-sided. I'm no better myself than I'm in favor of dropping all tolls. I think customs are disgusting, and I'm sure it's a one-way thing. On the other hand, if the time allows, which is a vacation agreement with the Philippines, which I am completely opposed to, I have another opinion on the following subject. In fact, I voted against it once on the program. That's because there's an insane serial killer and lunatic, Rodrigo Duterte, in power that isn't someone I want to negotiate with or the state he controls. But here are 47 countries. The political situation in many of them is very bad, as is the case. A senator crossed. First, I'd like to hear a question. The senator around these things, anyway. A senator sees the difference between shutting down the toll one side, as is suggested here, or making free shop agreements, as in other cases, e.g. to the madman Duterte.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u130	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson for the counter-sponsore. First to the question, if I approve of one-sided delinquency of tolls. So I'll start with my first question because of it. The senator missed the beginning of my talk, and there was no reason for me to be a follower of this matter, and he was happy to see that it was here on schedule, and hopefully he would get a release. As to whether I'm a one-sided delinquency toll, I think I can tell a lot of simplicity, and I have to have standard warnings about it, that I think the less customs that are in general the world business the better. With the exception, although I believe we should protect domestic food production by special customs, so to speak. In principle, we should strive to have the highest customs and the lower level of customs. Of course, this has to be the way between developed countries that it's working both ways. I believe it is a defence to do this in this way to underdeveloped countries like these economic countries, and that's why I support it. I think I already answered that. Hv. A senator reminds me if I've forgotten some things. But this is the main reason.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u131	A respectable president. I may be stealing my own speech, which I'm going to hold here in a moment, about this subject, maybe I don't have to ask why. That's a lot for a senator. But the second question concerned the difference between making a free trade deal with a state and dropping toll on one side. I'm sorry. An interesting member of the council, as well as those views around the reservation. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he can inform a ignorant person like me: Why should it be better for food to be made in a protective shelter than in other products and services? If we took off all the groceries here, the supply of food would probably increase a lot, I suppose. It's really the only thing I can think of. A senator may instruct me here. The reason we want to protect specific food production here is to maintain food security that I understand is about 50% today - according to a fine candidate for the Agency from the last term. Is it not possible to achieve that goal simply by making the production and then removing the tolls anyway? Is it necessary to have a health protection in order to ensure domestic production of food? Or there are grounds other than food security. A senator looks to the special mention of food, that they should be excluded from the good prince I agree otherwise, that customs are bad and should not be present in general. I myself believe that there should be nothing to use but punishment or to express hostility, as did the madman Duterte. I can totally sue that. I'm not sure it's a good idea to put a special toll against such parties. In nature, I think they're bad, and I don't quite figure it out, you know, a city's son and lunatic like me, why we don't just use state strength to produce what we want here in the country to keep food safe and to skip customs. [[The president calls.]] Can't we do that?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u132	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson for the counter-reception and questions. First, whether this procedure should take place as a one-sided or two-sided toll agreement. I think I brought it up in my previous answer that I believe the principle needs to be a two-way deal where they seek to have it mutually. For nations like these, I consider this to be just and really reasonable, and in one way or another human, to support the international affairs of these nations in this way. Back to the agricultural products: The main reason for importing agrienvironments is in my mind the food security and in the sense of purity of Icelandic production. For example, for those who have studied, it is known that in the United States food production is generally of very low exposure to antibacterial and other antibacterial agents, which are widely used in many parts of the world. That point is always at the front, so that it is said clearly. I also believe that it is a goal in itself to support the possibility of growing, prospering, and living a good life. It's part of keeping the country inhabited, that's part of the fact that the tourists that come up here have the experience that this place is productive and good to be. This will increase the likelihood that people will travel through the scattered areas. So there are many reasons for this. Above all, they turn to the purity of Icelandic food production.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u133	A respectable president. You're always lucky when you come right after someone you're asking questions, you can continue with what you're talking about. It's very convenient. I'd like to talk about this first in context of another subject later on, a concierge proposal to validate the holiday contract between the EFTA and the Filipinos. I know there's another thing, and I don't think it's likely that we'll be able to get to it tonight, unfortunately, but I have to say that in terms of this, because I think it matters. There's a connection between us. The context is this: In the case we are referring to a one - sided decline in customs against 47 states, the last Developed Countries. Maybe the President will help me with the translation, I just can't remember it, but it's as though it's the least developed 47 countries. There are countries like Sierra Leone, Afghanistan, and some other countries, and a fair majority of them in the fine continent of Africa. There the political situation is all kinds of things. In some places it is better than you think, and in some places it is worse than you know it. But I believe that customs, such as those we have here in Iceland, are in nature bad, no matter what political situation in these countries, but with them prior to me, if they're going to use a customs system as some kind of hostility to another state and, of course, don't consider it as far off as a business ban, but taking toll of something is wrong to me. I understand income tax, and I'm against it, I give him a valuable tax and I'm against it, I could totally criticize both system-based systems and the effects they have on the economy, but I think both systems are morally acceptable. I don't think it's morally wrong to collect income tax or credit. On the other hand, I find it morally questionable to take customs. I also feel that it causes a half - crazy problem that I have noticed in my conversations with people who are trying to do things here and starting very small. You have to buy things from abroad, and you have to pay to pay tolls to the sky. And customs are only for keeping the product here. It may exist, you may even own it, as long as it is elsewhere. I don't really like this approach, whether it concerns people or information or things. As I say, we still have borders, of necessity, and also many limitations on information. Perhaps from time to time, we need to pay attention to the necessities of life. In nature, I think they're bad, and I think there's a very good need for justification for having them over my head, so I'm automatically in favor of this case. Even if it covered all the countries of the world, I'd be in favor of the complications that would come through the EEA Treaty and other agreements we have and provided that there were no complications that often arise when you have such a lofty ideal over the whole world. They may be expected. I'm going to say all this in advance about such complications. However, we may be discussing the matter later, not one - sided delinquency in Iceland, but a free shopping contract with the Philippines. There are many good things to say about the Philippines, especially the Filipino people, but the Filipino people now have a totally insane lunatic, mass killer. I'm trying to find a foul language that works, but I can still say "ponta." His name is Rodrigo Duterte. Making a deal with that state now includes statements that I don't feel can be backed up. In that synonym, I request a pardon for two cases at once, which are related - that in the contract the commitment of EFTA and Filipinos to support democracy, justice, human rights and human rights in accordance with their duties as national rights, including As shown in the Treaty and the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights. It seems oddly, a respectable president, that Duterte has only threatened to break free from the United Nations. He has, indeed, not called for violations of human rights but prided himself on them, promised to pardon men for murder and to pardon himself on the way. There's no limit to the lunatic who's been hit by this crazy maniac. Then I don't feel comfortable making deals with such parties, especially with such expressions. It is offensive to any other contract that has a similar gang member and is to translate something. Besides, I have no faith that the Philippines authorities will respect this agreement based on what it says. There's a chance they won't. It is not even a theory or a hypothesis, the authorities there boast publicly of violating the good values there is. It is not true of them that this contract was signed at the time because it was April 28, 2016. I wouldn't have objected then. June 30th, 2016, Duterte came to power. I understand that this happened, and the deal is basically positive, it's a good thing. Then the situation changes, and sometimes a killer can get to power like Duterte and then you just have to cancel. That's my point. Still, some might say that having a vacation store, having no toll, is always positive to help with the situation in the area you are talking about. This was very evident in the discussion of our vacation agreement with China at the time, and it was most appropriate for that matter during the council. It may be best to show the complexity of such a vacation business, since there are not exactly the same criteria for the Philippines as for China. My concern for the free trade agreements against China was that the magnitude of these two nations was so great that we could never have any effect on human rights in China. Iceland would never say to China: Hey, now you have to record a little more expression freedom, or Iceland will stop doing business with you. It would just laugh at us if they noticed it over a head that I doubt over the size of those nations. It is not quite the same with the Philippines. It's not such a big country that the size difference is really great. However, I insist, and refer to Dutertes himself, that we are not going to do anything with this vacation agreement to improve the situation in the Philippines, not at all. One person who has a country and boasts of calling out for murder and who is going to get a call from the Icelanders, saying, "Hm, maybe I should think about what I'm doing. Maybe I should stop calling for massacres. - It's not about to happen, so I don't think they're holding water. Back to this one - sided tolls against 47 different governments, in some places worse than you know, in some places better than you could think. There is no particular part in planning to influence a political situation there. I see the matter we're going to discuss here much more as a question as to whether we're going to help the civilian population in these areas get out of poverty and take advantage of their opportunities to own a bigger business area. I look at it different because in dropping customs, I don't see it as a handshake like a man does when you're offering a free trade deal, it's a handshake that's built on some particular basis where two or more people come together for some common condition, that's something we could do to all these 47 states, if it was the goal of trying to improve the political situation there. By removing toll one side, to as many as possible dare and dare, I view it as helping the public in these countries. Actually, I'm not sure that even the authorities there would notice. I don't think it would have any effect on them. I don't always think this case is improving. There's another nature behind these two operations that I'm making a great distinction between. On one occasion, I was talking to a man about these matters. He told me you shouldn't send money to poor African countries. I was a little shocked, thought this was rather cruel of him, and he said: " You're supposed to buy some of the poor African countries. I don't know if my cosmology just works like that, but I still feel that after some very important point in this, it's that economic independence or the potential for individuals to grow, thrive and enjoy the fruits of their labors, and fall by being able to shop with the phenomenon unless it's self-needed or something like it. All good and blessed with that, but it will not be developed an economy. A growing economy needs a store. It's the only way to create proper differentiation and differentiation is the only way to create a developing economy, at least by what I know and what I read. When we simply give things that are worth a good pay, that's noble and positive, and we're supposed to, in my opinion, I think it's usually better, maybe not always, than at all, if we can establish business relationships with people who can use their power to make some kind of valuable thing that can be used to help them out of bad economic conditions, either long or permanently, of course, of course, permanently. But the gift expires. That's the big difference. If you give something, you need to continue to give, otherwise the gift expires, but if it is a business relationship, it will continue to build up wood, including knowledge and experience that can be used to further building up. Here, too, is a fundamental difference without drawing any less of the fact that we are to give. I have certainly called many times after we give more, but business is an enormously important part of this. I just wanted to mention this. Maybe it's quite clear that I'm in favor of the case, and although there are other countries, and although not all of them were in this group of Lost Developmented Countesses, at least more developed countries. If we were to set up the nation today for the first time, I don't think we had customs. I don't think we'd think of that. I think we could imagine it blocking so much good things, so much messed up for us that we wouldn't even think of putting them on. Many of these things can be said about a number of things, including the development of authorial rights, so I mention random examples. There are many things that we may forget to be bad because we get used to them. Our economy is based on what is given. It may be difficult to unwind them. As I hope that before, all of this is said in advance that it can be difficult to unwind from bad systems. Borders are examples of a lack of necessity. My dream world would be without borders, but that does not mean that it can simply be taken off a single board. It's more complicated than that. I think it's probably the same with customs. Most important, I'm going to use the last seconds of this talk to mention a new phenomenon that people sometimes wonder should be dealing with. It's the Internet. We are so lucky that the Internet is kind of new, and not all the ties the authorities might think of. True, it is tried, but fortunately it usually fails. There are ideas of setting limits, dividing ourselves into some specific compartments so that we cannot do something, not talk to one another, not get information, not shop, not give, and so forth. I think such ideas are bad in nature. We're supposed to work to get rid of the seas. I think this good thing is in that direction, will obviously support it and hope that there will be more.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u134	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson of an excellent speech. It is a pleasure to hear his view of business and the important elements they play in the possible building of underdeveloped countries in economic terms. Hv. A senator may consider a different subject, but the subject is very interesting at a time, often in a very interesting way. I listened to him earlier when he spoke of his generally counting the bad. Really, in any form they might be except, if I understood correctly, a punishment for any future temporary action, no matter what the cause may be. But he also brought in taxes, that he thought that income taxes and credit taxes both were morally justified and understood the approach applied there. Then I thought I'd ask. A senator's attitude toward genetic taxation. Which now applies in many places, but not everywhere. But since then. A senator entered a moral position on taxes when I was curious to hear his stand on genetic tax.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u135	A respectable president. I'm just gonna have to admit to myself the crime of not thinking about it a lot. I feel that in nature it is normal for the way the tax system needs to be--no, I'm gonna start somewhere else. I think taxes are basically the tax that we pay to live in a relatively civilized society, tax that we pay to have, e.g. Police, fire department, central health and education. Then, of course, people disagree about exactly what they want in what they call a civilized state or republic. But that's the basic approach I'm going in there. I can imagine the world hundreds of years ago when there were no taxes, so it was already supposed to come to some tax people thought, " It must be temporary. ' In fact, much of the taxes were placed on as temporary as they should be, but it wasn't always that way, sometimes they became permanent. [[Up front.]] But the basics I see in e.g. income tax and payback tax that I think quickly, aware that I haven't thought it over quite as much as I should have to do to answer that question. A member of the Parliament, it is that the genetic tax includes the same, the transfer of funds. It's not just something that's there. In case of a moment. A senator means something like saying money tax, or his name, the wealth tax of his time, but now I am merely changing my mind, only becoming more acceptable to him in time. At one time, I was very opposed to him for the reason that I feel that there is something wrong with simply taking something that is there, but I feel that it is something else when there is money. The transfer of money is part of the way the economy itself works. That's really part of this shit we're all in. I see a basic difference there. As the senator may hear, I am thinking aloud. [[The president calls.]] But thank you for the question. She's interesting. I find it interesting to discuss basics like taxation, we sometimes forget behind all the technology, that there's a prince's penis under there somewhere. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u136	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for a good speech. It is always fun to listen to the senator and the senators at all times when they give talks on matters of great conviction or are important to them, as this subject is clearly so important to them. Senator. Hv. In both his speech and his reply, a senator spoke a great deal about it that he was impressed by one - sided collapse of customs. Is that a valid view like that of each other? In most countries, if not all, customs are used in some way or other obstacles, if we call customs barriers, especially when it comes to agricultural products. So I'd like to ask you why. A senator whether it is so that his dream will come true, that we will be rid of all customs, must all agree with him, that customs are bad, and that they are knocked down. Or does the senator believe that Iceland, this small country, a rural country, can ride on the ground and bring down all customs one-sided, describe Iceland's duty-free country where there are no customs in any product, in particular I'm going to name agricultural products, in light of that. for the rest of your days. A senator mentioned, food security? To have food security, we need producers to produce and create products. We're talking about security, sorry. To keep our food security in order, we need such producers. Of course, eating security is another matter. Does he not worry that if we alone decide to drop toll on one side, the competitive environment of these important manufacturers will be difficult to ensure food security?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u137	A respectable president. I hope that I've done a fine job with my listeners, I can describe my dream world in the first place and how I feel things are supposed to be in the prince's hand, but I wasn't born in this world until 1980, so I couldn't figure it all out. We are stuck with situations that do not necessarily please me. To change especially into large and complex systems, there are always some things that complicate matters. Otherwise, it would be easy to contribute quite a lot of affairs. It often happens when you study Congress, that things are a little more complicated than you thought a prince's not going anywhere. Although you feel the same way, you realize that doing things is more complicated than you thought, and you can have side effects that you don't want. To the patrons and to the senator's question: I do not know quickly whether Iceland could simply take away all customs, including food, and everything would be fine. I don't think it would be simple. It would be very peculiar, odd, and unique if it were simple. However, in order to give the speculation a little further, I feel that it is important for us to think about our basic goals. If our aim is to ensure food security in Iceland, all we need to do is make sure that it is funded well enough. Of course, the cost, just as in customs, is a factor for consumers and the economy in a greater sense. I've seen no argument that customs are a better way than simply to draw money from a government fund into that problem, probably by some other system but now. Maybe we could talk about it on a better occasion. But I admit it's just like with a border, though my dream world's out of the border, I realize that because it's come and it's been here for a long time, it's more than just mention getting rid of it. [[The president calls.]] But this bill is a bill that seems to agree to be practical. [[The president calls.]] That's why I'm so happy for it. It's a whole 47 states. [[The president calls.]] I hope that one day there will be a convergence of growing them even more.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u138	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the answer. I can agree that in the dream world, the perfect world of free business, there were no customs. On the other hand, we see the trend, even though we may be taking a step in this matter of Congress. One of the biggest if not the world's largest economic powers and its leader has declared that international business agreements and customs agreements are not very clever and have reached some level of isolation policy. I think we're moving a little farther away from the Senator's dream world, and maybe mine too, if it was possible to approach this fantasy world. But about the food security again. It may be said that if the State is willing to contribute large sums of money to production, it may be possible to go along the way that the senator refers to a one - sided route in any country, since everyone knows that the production is not being sold on the same shelf as others sell it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u139	A respectable president. I think that a rhythmic way to approach that problem would likely be to try to drop tolls two - sided or multisided or with some sort of business agreement on major business countries. I suppose that would be the way that would be gone. Icelandic units could go to another market as well as warn others around here. Or perhaps it was an example of something that many would have to agree to do. It can be. Although we would have to increase the financial resources available for domestic food production to provide food security, there is something people in general need to do to ensure their safety. Money needs to be put in many kinds of national security. It's centrally done, by the tax system. It can translate higher amounts of money from the treasure of the Kingdom or, if possible, the application of those ideas. But we must not forget the cost that already exists with customs. [[The president calls.]] That's still the cost. Above all, and I hate how short we have to discuss this, more evidence is used for the customs system in Iceland than this. [[The president calls.]] Hv. 4th, including That's the north side. Name the purity of the product. Sadly, we don't have more time to discuss it, but we'll probably get back to it later.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u140	A respectable president. Now, I want to say two things before I get to the question. On one hand, what I've mentioned before is that I approve of this bill for the special reasons I traced here in a talk. That's why I'm all for this one-sided delinquency of customs. The other thing is, I'm very interested in Pirata. In my efforts to understand this movement, I have, to simplify the matter, to try to divide them into two main categories, on the one hand, the left anarchus-Pairata, and on the other hand, what might be called liberal, or even liberal-Pairata. In this category, I'm putting it together. A member of the 2nd Squad. I must admit that I agree with him about many things. One thing and another, e.g. Many points he has made to talk about freedom of speech. I really appreciate that tendency. A senator is studying matters, putting himself in them, and realizing them before he finds a conclusion. But I was shocked to hear it. A member of the council describes his approval of a one - sided delinquency of tolls. What would we be doing with that? In effect, we would be yielding to the status of the country in possible negotiations with other countries. If we have given up one - sided customs, why should other countries do the same? Then you wonder, and this is the question, If what? A senator is willing to yield to customs for countries that produce products in all other conditions but we think he would be willing to open the Icelandic labour market completely? So anyone living in a crisis in a foreign country could come to Iceland and be signed by Icelandic farmers or workers or others? Do you have much less pay than we demand in Iceland?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u141	A respectable president. Now it seems to me that time isn't enough for me to answer it again. Senator. I mentioned a warning in my speech, tried to be as clear as I could, and also mentioned in reply before. Councilmen, fellow members of the regiment. A senator, a number of times in advance of the ideals I have in a nontollless world. The same applies to a world without borders. There are warnings against what I was aware of, i.e. that once these things are here, it may be difficult to get rid of them. I still want to head that way. It can take time, it can be complicated. It can be very complex and usually complicated, as I thought I had been clear about earlier. Good planning and good goals can be accompanied by side effects that you find undesirable. Of course, we need to pause and try to figure it out too. I felt that I was clear in my speech, and we answered. Senators. I hope that's enough. With respect to left anarchus/freeity-Pairata analysis each. A senator has a form of something called social art, or some sort of socialist liberal, I suppose. Noam Chomsky thinks himself, for example. to that direction. These terms can be rolled back and forth. I'm not surprised that Pirata is hard to put in any particular group there because, first of all, Pirantar is everywhere on the ridge. There are the right Martys and the left Piratars and the Middle Piratars, and then there's a lot of Piranians turning down the aces to the ground. In case of a moment. A senator has a particular interest in knowing how I stamp myself, but the stamp has made me feel better. I think it's a good time. I have nothing to do with it. But then I'm also a Pirati because of all the good values displayed in Pirata's basic policy. Finally, this is what has been set in contrast by the left and the freedom. I refuse. Maybe I'll come to the second answer if it's true. A senator allows me to continue with that fine discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u142	A respectable president. I've never had a clue. A senator would be a socialist. It's very illuminating and interesting. I'm trying to get it into the system I'm trying to shape about Pirata. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I couldn't hear the answer to the question about the work market. Maybe it'll come in the next answer. Yet, I wanted to add a question to my mind as to why. A senator about one-sided recovery of tolls. The senator there described how counter measures might be required to develop increased support, to strengthen food production in Iceland. But wouldn't that really be the subsidies of food production in foreign lands? If we are going to open the door to overproduction from foreign industry into the Icelandic market and make up for it by making up especially for Icelandic farmers, above the production process, are we not just strengthening foreign factories? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u143	A respectable president. I don't see a way to secure food security here without putting money into it where the free economy would otherwise not put them. I don't see a way, personally. If the goal is to maintain food security in the country, to maintain a goal in which I believe, and to think that everyone in this country believes, and even if more, it means putting money on it. We're paying for it now through customs. And I would like to discuss more fully all these arguments about the purity of the product and all that in a special assembly case, in Icelandic language, is also relevant elsewhere. Likewise, Icelandic consumers do not simply want what is cheapest. It's not like that. But to answer that question. A senator in the last second on the labor force. Now we're in the EEA. About 500 million people, about 7% of our species, may come and work today. You can. All Italians, all Greeks, all Spaniards, all Germans can come to Iceland today to work if they want to. [[The president calls.]] I don't see that it's a terrible problem. [[Up front.]] As I said before, my dream world is without borders. How do we get there? I don't have a magic solution on it, I don't think I have it, and I like it when people don't act like I'm bringing a magic solution.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u144	A respectable president. What a pleasure it would be if it were the highest! A minister might be here in the hall during this discussion. I don't think that's too much to ask because we're discussing a matter recommended by the minister of Congress. I would like a minister to come here and listen to the council of the council. I have two, three questions for a minister who would be nice to get an answer. We'll discuss a bill to correct customs law, No. 88/2005, with subsequent changes. It's just seeing a simple thing. It's getting ready for about that. 47 countries to export certain products to countries without customs. In fact, Iceland is taking over and implementing certain commitments that we have made as members of the World Trade Organization, so I'm going through this rapidly. The countries that have become damaged are spoken of as defined by the United Nations Economic and Social Council. The tax benefits are reviewed or the products they fail to achieve. Then, with the permission of the president, it says: To have agreed with the Ministry on Seaways, Agriculture and Exports, Ministers are allowed to set by Regulation specific rules for importing the product. It would be nice to have a minister here to ask questions about things. I'm gonna hang out with this question. It has been discussed here whether to disable tolls on one side or whether customs should be part of treaties. I think it's a bad thing if the Icelanders continue on the course that has been established for the past few years, especially under the leadership of the Independence Party, to cut off a lot of customs and fees without getting something in return. As we do so, the pressure moves undeniably on groups of products that will continue to carry tolls. We're still doing business deals. We are still making deals with foreign countries or parties, and we must give up on them something and get something in return. Once we've gone and so much of our tolls and fees are done, there's little to give back. That's why I say we're supposed to be careful about all this. Now it's the highest. Ministers have entered the hall and I'm going to return to the article only where the regulations for the import of the product are addressed. I ask: Is the Regulation, or the rules of origin to be set solely with regard to goods from these 47 countries? Or is the idea that a minister can make rules about goods from other countries? So, are we talking about the rules of origin that will be taken into account by the EU Convention or by the European Union? This is a question I'm going to ask a minister this time. There's another question I'll get to below. In my opinion, it is important that Icelanders make much more aggressive policy-making requirements, source information, health information, food, the quantity of food production products, the amount of toxins, etc. My opinion is that we should go beyond the rules in general. Of course, we must be within the clearance we have. But it's like, when we came to a camp today, it's not quite clear what we're buying. It is in small letters that the product is from a certain country, a very small letter, actually. It is not known whether any medicine has been used in the manufacture or toxin. I'm thinking about this in the light of consumer protection, considering that consumers are entitled to such information. I'm not thinking about this to protect something or stop something, I'm just thinking about the interests of consumers. When you come into a store and it is an imported product, whether it is meat, fruit, or whatever, it is clear to the source of the product; the first country, where it is produced, not that it has passed through filters and laundrys or gods can know what, packages, in Europe. I'm thinking that in the store there's a paper or an information sign, or it's on the product itself, that during the manufacturing process, and so much antibiotics or other medications were used. In a perfect world, such information could be obtained, and consumers could choose toxic products that would have been used to produce, e.g. insecticides; that the consumer sees black in white what it is to buy. Someone would say, " It's just an obstacle to import. ' There are groups here at a council that might come up with the idea of saying so, even groups that talk a lot about consumers. What interests me most is to make sure that consumers know what they're buying. Besides, I am not ashamed to claim that domestic production would be successful in this comparison. The first page of the bill refers to dates. On page 18. 2, in the middle of the page, it shows that the countries in common are that there are low income and income potentials, etc., where there is a lack of infrastructure and planning. As a result, they are self-involved in a large way, have difficulty coping with economic events, environmental accidents, etc. This brings to mind that the matter is in itself good. I'm in favor of the case. But I also wondered if there is no opportunity to help these countries further by improving their development; these countries are truly harder than many others to produce their products. There are two ways, both multinational and bilingual. By doing so, we can do just that to strengthen the interior. We can improve quality. We can take it a little further, make it more valuable. Me and the Icelanders have done this for some reason. We've been education people in Iceland, at the United Nations University, who have gone to their own country and have done great things in it. We have also been exporting knowledge, e.g. how you use earth's heat to wipe out food, fish, fruit, or anything. There we can do even better if we increase this help. Therefore, I would like to ask a minister if this possibility, in connection with this case, in the government of the government to redirect funds for further product development with these countries; not only is it being decomposed but it is also increasing the value of the product by means of a specific assistance. I think there could be an exciting task, and the ideas we've seen in reports and expectations of the highest are fine. Foreign Minister, who is referred to as increasing business - related development support. In fact, I find it very interesting, especially in view of the fact that a government under social list would suggest that development teamwork become more business. Not that long ago, it was, in fact, a ban, when it was being discussed with development aid. As far as I can remember, the development of the Development Agency and the development of the State Department's team would have been the most united that bisnes regions were not to be aided. But there I have pointed to opportunities that can give us exactly the same kingdom we're talking about, i.e. by lifting tolls, by sticking to our commitments, while at the same time applying ourselves to increase the quality and value of the products produced, in most cases, likely in the case of agricultural products. As a result, more valuable, more exports and the expected benefits of these countries will be gained. We should not stop there. You see, in many of those countries, there is a very big division between men and women, as we know. Women can't even own land, they can't own farms, they can't start companies, etc. However, it has been found that since women are enabled to participate more fully in the economy, in the commercial world, things get better. I'm not going to forget to mention here that, of course, education is extremely important. Me and the Icelanders have done great things by highlighting equality, women's authority, and their speaking in each country, for each nation, the fact that the infrastructure is not in man's hands alone. Not long ago, Iceland's farmers, landowners, were actually just men. Women were in no position to own land or farm. Happily, that is different. It's a very good thing. It's got a lot of sides. There are other things we can do besides relieve our customs. I agree with the above - mentioned individuals and warn that shouting parties or even governments may take advantage of the situation in which these countries are taking hold of human resources, cheap, ill - paying, ill - mannered production, even in order to get into this market that is taking tolls off. I hope that when you look at the big picture, it'll make more money than make it worse. It may be dangerous to simplify access to markets without making demands in return. Now I don't know exactly what demands are made by the International Business Agency and the countries who accept this, I have to admit it. A respectable president. I think it is important for us to understand that this subject will become clear when it comes to a discussion on a committee. As a matter of fact, I think it's good to have a good discussion here at the first hour because it has things to explain better, points that can be related to this subject. Like these three questions I have right to the highest. A minister includes this matter of speculation and concerns about further support for a state like this. I'd like to mention something else. When opportunities arise, it is likely that a certain amount of business is required. Now I'm not saying we're supposed to go out of our way over these countries with extreme harshness, but it must be normal for us to make certain demands for environmental witness, i.e. how the products are produced, under what circumstances and circumstances, at least we have information about how they are made. Of course, we know that many of these countries depend on coal for energy production, just to have lights or electricity on their machines. Of course, it should not stop them from being able to move goods out and get to where we are. However, we should emphasize the importance of helping these states to get out of this evil energy, from the currently used fossil fuels, especially the coal. Of course, it is far better to use gas or oil than coal. And, of course, we should keep aiming the heat into the areas where it is clearly possible. These include the Great Sigdal of Africa and other countries of Asia and other places where environmental energy can obviously be used much more to produce products. By agreeing and meeting these terms or negotiations that we clearly agree to, we can apply ourselves even more and more. We can do bigger things and should do bigger things. To do that, you need the will and the funding. Unfortunately, I miss not having seen any ambition in the government budget that money will be added to development unless what is calculated to international institutions.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u145	A respectable president. Hv. A senator said it was a simple matter, and in part it is true. But there are very complex side effects that I might want to think up with. Senator. And a little more in a talk afterward. The first thing I'm worried about is if this is a possible poverty trap, i.e. whether there is any incentive to remain LDC land in order not to lose this free toil for a good export, how to ensure it. Linked to the discussion that took place before then. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson, about the future community where no customs are needed, I'd like to ask you why. Senator: Need customs if food security is secure? If we are in a world where food security is secure, anywhere in the world, do we need to customs? We may be able to add this energy security and housing security, especially here in the north, cold, etc. After all, toll looks like it's a lot of steel and stuff. But with regard to the consumer as such, and the security it entails - and the possibility, if the land is isolated, that we will not starve. If food security is secure in our country, do we need customs?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u146	A respectable president. I think it's important to correct a problem. A senator immediately, this is a common misunderstanding. Food security is that food is healthy and safe, and food safety is high. I'll think about it. A senator is talking about food security. Today it is like this, I think, our food security is guaranteed that half, more perhaps. If it is the only standard that humans are going to use to secure the food security, then there can be no reason to believe that customs are not necessary. Of course, we're thinking about more things. We are thinking about making wholesome, wholesome food, having food security in order. We're talking about consumers in Iceland who can buy clean products that are cultivated in the best conditions available to men. [[Up front.]] Let us not forget that food production in Iceland is, of course, a industry as well. There are thousands - I don't remember whether there are 15,000 jobs, I don't dare do it - jobs that are connected to agriculture alone; many more in the fishing field, of course. So we also have customs to secure jobs, maintenance of buildings, and everything possible. But if we look at the security only, I think the senator can argue. I thought for a second. A senator would be setting me up; I remember a case the senator had brought about to cultivate meat. No doubt we would have no need to worry about customs or food security if that was the case with the senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u147	A respectable president. It was no trap, but it was exactly where I was going. I'm sorry, I'm going to make a recommendation to the council. It simply involves a technical situation that makes us feel the need to transport such proteins from one country to another. Thus, food security and food security would be guaranteed, evenly, anywhere in the world. In a sense, there is also a need to maintain a measure of energy security and security. Hv. A senator was pretty naked to guess where I was going with this question. The core of these customs, at least in our current discussion, is that we need to protect domestic production. But there is no need to move between countries food that we can produce in exactly the same way anywhere in the world, in exactly the same inexpensive way, if carnivore was practiced. In addition, there would no doubt still be a demand for Icelandic food production, food production. We have very organic and good production that would definitely be demand in a carnivore environment. Carnage only eliminates certain factory productions in animals for carnivores. Our industry is not a factory product but, rather, a much more healthful, organic, and sustainable product than the production of carnivores would replace. Then we would have a very valuable export along with providing food and food security with a technology that costs nothing anywhere in the world.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u148	A respectable president. I thank the senator for this. I just have to admit that I don't really have that thought as bad. Councilmen have, to look so far ahead, to see that we can grow meat or something like that. I'm sure it's around the corner. I don't doubt it. I've read your bill, I've read your report. A senator with the Senate case. [[Up front.]] I've been looking at this. I've seen news of this and such, but I don't believe it's going to be any key. A respectable president. The senator continues to roll with security. To produce products, we need fuel, and we need grain and other products that we are importing. We need certain products that we haven't been able to produce here in Iceland. I hope there's a time when we can be self-sustaining about as much of this as possible, whether it's fuel, nuclear food, or anything else that we need to raise our animals. In general, we're in a place where we're safe with half our food security, another thing we need to move in. We need to consider how we approach our needs in the best way possible in order to care for our interests rather than our own food security. Otherwise, I think the Senator actually hit the nail, there's a lot of things we have to think about.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u149	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi, the son of Sveinsson for his speech. There are many interesting things in it. I'd like to curious about something and something else. A senator, who was a minister of foreign affairs not long ago and therefore knows especially well the environment of development aid, mentioned in the preceding talk that he had worked together in the development of the Development Agency and the development of the Ministry of State when he was there. What I like to know is two things. First, what measures, with experience in this environment, are considered to be most effective in these economic underdeveloped areas. Second, Hv. A senator was one of the preeminents of the so - called Barbershop approach on the topic of equality, he had a slight involvement in this talk earlier, how does he feel that equality is affecting the results achieved in each nation's territory? What role does Iceland play in that? If you look at this 47 national list still on this LDC list, you'll suspect that there's a lot of equality in the world.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u150	A respectable president. We have a list of 47 countries that will be allowed to import certain products, toll free, and that is the best in themselves. However, you may wonder, which is really what you've seen to be as important as increasing the infrastructure in these countries to make some progress in effect that things like that, cutting customs, are more effective than we might expect just by cutting tolls. It is, of course, by advancing the infrastructure. Part of it is to promote the authority of women so that women can be educated, educated, given the rights and permission to run businesses, land, farms and such. Sadly, in many of these lands, many have few traditions, making them slow down and shrink back. Women are supposed to work hard at home, work hard in fields, and things like that. Some women's circumstances have improved, e.g. that they need to fetch water by less than one road. What happens then? Then the men complain that they have nothing to do just because there may be a half hour, an hour, or two a day because a statue is picking up the water. Of course, at that time they could be used to learn, start a business, or make something for themselves. So there is a need for many, not everywhere, of course, for a great change of attitude. As far as I'm concerned, it is important to strengthen the infrastructure, to promote the contribution of women to the economy in these countries, than to simply repair the customs.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u151	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson is very, very excited about the answer. It may be appropriate to approach the question this way: Is there any action directed by the Icelandic government in recent years? A senator knows best, since the authority of women has been in a special focus in the development aid provided by the government of the United States? I know what you're doing. A senator, whether from the time he was in the office of the minister of foreign affairs or later after the incident, how have they worked out? If the missions that the Ministry of State has been doing may not be reaching out to this area, I would like to ask if he saw a possible case that would be at the top of the order, as it were, in order to encourage and support the structure and internal structure needed to take place in the surrounding areas of these nations. As has been observed among many who have spoken before in the discussion, of course, part of the problem is the political situation at home and the infrastructure and the weak situation, whether it is individuals in general, education, rights, or whatever they may be. But first of all, it would seem that more knowledge would be needed to deal with the problems in the territories of these nations.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u152	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the question. It has been the main theme, or one of the most important themes, in Iceland's assistance, to look out for ways to manipulate women and their environment, their jobs and so on. It's just been fine in a lot of places. Of course it's not going well. It has been found that with the results, society becomes stronger and things work better. On the other hand, we often find that we are being helped by people who are very out - of - sight. I remember one example I'm going to allow myself to mention, I think I'll pretty much remember that in one particular country, it was decided to give two bicycles to women so that they could help each other at birth and so on. They were so clever that they rented one wheel to a man who had to rent a bicycle and could practice bisness, used the other bike on those projects, and received money that they could use to buy things to help women too. Suddenly, these two bicycles became the source of all and the community, and especially the group of people involved in a better position and position. This is a small example of what it means to be involved, what is important to put it in its proper place, and of course trust in people. But we may find this a little thing and a little strange, but there it was enormously important, since an ambulance may have to drive hundreds of miles to get to women in distress, but there may not be gas on it but every other month. Then things like this are important.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u153	A respectable president. However, this case, as we hope to see, has raised questions and opinions and that mine knows a very useful topic on customs in general which it is natural to put into contact with the bill. We heard the interpretation of members of different categories of customs in general. This is certainly a general administration of customs against 47 states and one side of Iceland, but it is not possible to engage in such a project without considering the effects of such one - sided recovery and the possibility that it might be, as some have spoken of here, applied to more countries, even general, i.e. Do not submit to the unique conditions in these 47 countries, and I and many others have been traced here but will become a general rule. Especially has it been observed that the Porta members of Congress have spoken for the general, one-sided, relegating of customs to the Icelanders. In fact, they are added to the fact that this is a dream of some sort, that since customs have developed, some measures may have to be taken before customs are taken in general. But the problem is that this view is just based on a dream, a peripherality, a world that is not really there, and therefore has a lot in common with various old doctrines, ideals in politics, such as socialism or communism even and liberalism on the other side, and is determined to have some dream of how the world should work and try to fix its policies and politics for that dream instead of doing what the Middle Party wants to focus on, the solution to reality. That is our policy, to adapt our solutions to the world as it is. It has been discussed with regard to the ability to yield to customs, but instead of the commercial food supply, the quality products provided by the Icelandic farmers and the food industry, to counter the decline in customs. It must then be done to the point that the Icelandic quality production is competitive in the pursuit of the foreign production of factories that would be piled into the market in the trade, expected to aim for the Icelandic quality products that are competitive at the expense of increasing subsidies to be purchased rather than from abroad, in other words, to protect Icelandic production and to keep foreign production. This will help us to see the natural value in the customs for valuables, production in Iceland, and the importance of giving this in general would be contrary to the agreement of our business countries. It cannot be that the purpose of such measures is to continue buying the foreign factory production that would be loaded into the market and to continue to strengthen it without its purchase. The Icelandic product would only become available, be fortified, and the consumers bought the foreign factory. That can't be the goal. In other words, the aim of such action must have been to subsidize Icelandic quality production to the point of buying it rather than the import, which would be competitive in price keeping foreign excess production away. The purpose of customs is precisely to protect Icelandic production, making it more competitive to the foreign production produced in a far lower way than we would accept here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u154	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson, the son of Gunnak, was eager to give his second talk in this regard. I'd like to mention something he introduced in the discussion without any depth in his speech. It was a matter that he rolled up in answer to why. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson and turned to his position. A senator to eliminate all tolls for import. That's when it came. paritaprevir In answer to Davíð Gunnlaugsson's attitude toward the foreign labor force, such as This less developed state, in the context of workforce being allowed to enter the market in local markets, if I understood it correctly, would not fall under domestic collective agreements. I like to know how they look at what they're talking about. paritaprevir In comparison with the removal of foreign subsidized food production, Davíð, the son of Gunnlaugsson, was upset. To this evening, the president made a comment that I used the word "daddy," into the market of less - paid areas of price as a domestic product, despite considerable subsidies, would never be a chance to compete.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u155	A respectable president. It was really nice to get that answer, that criticism, on my speech earlier tonight, because it's not right. There was a senator who had not published the details. I asked why. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson into this, but there wasn't a complete answer that didn't give a chance to end this case. It is, of course, closely linked, work market, and goods. I believe that I correct the fact that international commerce has never been as free as it was in 1913. Then World War I broke down and new restrictions were imposed. Then came the global crisis and World War II. I don't think the world has ever returned to the point of having as free trade as 1913. But the difference now is that we've developed the work market in the West very much since what was over 100 years ago. We have very high employment demands and, in fact, to the employee, to the quality requirements, to the security requirements, and especially to the terms of elections. It is impossible to produce goods, neither food nor anything else in Iceland, except that humans meet certain conditions, including those for which they live. of benefits that are not present in the countries where we are competing. If we were to amend all customs on one side, it would be possible to put aside the agreements available in Iceland for purchases and terms and security, and many more, and to dispose of a lot of goods into the Icelandic market that would be manufactured by people who live in a crisis, it would not have been fair wage, would have been safe, and put in place by the entire labour market in Iceland, and the requirements we probably consider to be upset. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u156	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson for answering. This is an interesting detail, and perhaps it underscores how complicated it is. Of course, such issues as this can be viewed as a specific procedure for 47 underdeveloped countries in an economic respect, but when you look at them in a larger context, as has been discussed considerably earlier in the discussion, there are many other factors, but the distinct vision that it is wise to strip tolls down one - sided. I like to know, as a result of the previous answer given. The senator, how he feels it has and whether the effects are inherently any other of the applications of low-cost workforces that work heavily under collective contracts, e.g. Here on our land or in our neighboring countries, we are in a worse terms and in a worse position of work than we expect here at home. If the senator is any difference in nature that the subsidies take place there or whether it involves that I am stuck in, or that excess my production, which is already subsidized and with a very limited means of interest into the market here?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u157	A respectable president. There's no difference between us. The same is true whether the production occurs here in the country or abroad, there are no alternative criteria for humans to compete on different terms. In fact, the same thing can be said in a country. I'll take an example. Here we have certain traders' requirements for many cases of education, skill, and theirs, naturally, of remuneration requirements. Of course. If a foreign company could offer the various tasks here, let's say, for example. Just painting someone's house, and moving in labor from another country without paying for it in accordance with Iceland's purchase? Even then I'll witness again in speech of which. paritaprevir Þorstein's Þorsteinn, Sæmundsson, slaves? Sadly, slavery is still a fact in the world. Would it be normal, acceptable, if there was a possibility that people would move in here if they weren't even free and had them do a job here? The cost of competition is lower, but at the expense of Icelandic trademen who have to meet the various conditions but who naturally get a measure of approval. It may also be compared to the left movement's policy of a green environmental offer, climate, which has been willing to give one-sided according to Iceland's climate status. But what does that mean? That means that we will not receive from other countries the contribution we could receive if these were farms. [[The president calls.]] We must always consider that if we are yielding in this regard, we are yielding to a certain value, a particular position, and need to see the same contrary. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u158	A respectable president. I thank you for the discussion that has already taken place. There's something left of her, I suspect. Most of the arguments presented in previous talks, I think, in view of the general agreement, with some exceptions, that the principle should be in toll agreements comparable to these, or toll agreements over the head, that it is a two-sided agreement, a purchase, that both parties should get something for their share. Like what? paritaprevir The Sigmundur over Davíð Gunnlaugsson's second challenge in the previous article is just part of a general business and contract made to give up something, whether it is tolling, import or whatever it is, that is being negotiated in international agreements at a time. To say this, I want to reiterate what I said here in my first speech that I think this approach, to validate this agreement as suggested here, is a really positive step. Although this is a one - sided decline of customs, my opinion is that the goal in itself is to support the development of these underdeveloped countries in economic terms. The best way to do so is by increasing international freedom. Of course, according to the route of employment, it is necessary to try to ensure that not all the valuables produced in the regions of these countries end up in the pockets of the wicked and the scurvy. But there are now solutions that are available in international commerce to help reduce the likelihood of such a thing. I think we're taking a positive step in this regard, i.e. to prepare for the increased international business of the 47 countries in question, and this will increase the likelihood of progressively increasing the number of countries that escape this definition. There are only six of them that have fallen out of that group so far. You're afraid some nations, some countries, are going in there following home-made problems. I think that even if we can succeed, we need to take good care of this and do it with an open mind and support, according to the ways we are able, by the economy in our local territory. This is done much more by business dealings than by temporary reinforcements and gifts or by any term that humans want to use over it. I think it was a whisk. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson, in his talk earlier during the discussion, that the gift is often completed, a time of monomerization, and the area that enjoys it at that time is not always improved in the interior after the gift or strength or support is given. But what is much more likely to ensure long - term improvement is opening up these communities. It also increases the likelihood that education, education, and so forth in the areas; that is, I think, is a goal we should strive to fulfill. I say that in the end of my second speech: Free international transactions are most likely to accomplish this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u159	A respectable president. I didn't mean to respond. A member of the council, but I noticed what happened earlier in my previous talk on page 5 of this magazine. 3 The bill speaks of consultation. There seems to have been some internal body in the Board of Directors, no other form of consultation. It says here, by permission of the President: ▪ Plans for making the bill and initial assessment of its impact were conducted at a Ministry Meeting on March 15, 2018. There was no time to introduce the plans of the public in accordance with Article 3. approved by the government on the planning and disposal of the Commission and the administration, cr. Count 9. Government procedures. Then neither did the time for extracurricular consultation. What I'm wondering is, what in the world of this bill calls for the ass to be so great that it can't be consulted as clearly indicated by the rules? I admit I missed it earlier, but I think I've tried to understand my bill well enough to realize that there's some date, so I haven't seen it yet, which runs after it's finished, that may have passed me, that's what I'm saying. But it attracted my attention, by permission of the President, that the bill was consulted with the Food and Agriculture Office at the Department of Business and Development, the Department of State Department business office and toll manager's office. While it is true that the regulations of the bill involve most agriculture and immigrants, I wondered: " What in the world calls for this to be so fast that it cannot be legalized? I'll get to the second thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u160	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson for the counter-sponsored. Now it has to be said that there are things in the luggage of the present government that, in the opinion of those who call for action, a great flash, which I am quite unable to understand. We see that later on on on this meeting, there is once again a bill on the decline of election age, which is expected never to be until four years. It's impossible for me to understand who's making that decision. That seems to be the same. It is not to see in the bill or in the report that there is no specific date that calls for this great growth. But I don't know, this may be some kind of way for the current government to finish things more conveniently and therefore have to put less preparatory work into place. If the highest. A minister would be here in the hall, perhaps the minister would add this to his questionnaire, which would be interesting to get an answer to what it is that calls for this high speed, after all the consultations that have been eased aside. There's nothing in the language that I know of that explains it. But keeping in mind the panic of a bill about a down election age, it's not a big surprise.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u161	V.E.G. President. There's a chance you'll wonder about this when you realize that mine knows that nothing of the case calls for it -- I've gone over it again -- that it's going to be approved right now. It must, then, be that way, and the committee will likely consult in some form or request comments on the matter. However, there is something special about the design of such laws and rules and regulations that the State has established. For another thing, since I'm here. I wondered what I came through in my first talk about information being given to consumers. I mentioned earlier that consumers are not very sure when they go shopping and buy some goods. I think it might be better to inform consumers about the content of goods, etc. It may also be wondered whether to adopt a so - called traffic - light system that reveals loyalty and content and such things, such as green, yellow, red, and red meaning, that is quite clever. I just want to ask the senator if he shares that opinion with me - now the problem is that we are in the same category - that the import or import is not being stopped by increasing the information being given to consumers. That increasing the intelligence is simply increasing the choice of consumers, i.e. consumers can stand at a meat table or a vegetable table somewhere and say: I'm going to choose vegetables or meat or something that is produced in an eco-friendly way, with so little toxicity and little medicine content. Is that not just what we want all of us to do? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u162	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. The answer to that question is yes, I share that opinion with him. I think it is only reasonable to consumers that they have good access to information about the origin and purity of goods, the materials being used, and so forth. I don't have those rules completely clear, but I think I'm right about that in some of our neighboring nations, the rules against people have to be warned that just to stop for 24 hours and be surrounded by people who can be tagged with them as a country of origin, the particular country of origin. I just need to review this, but this may underscore what the consumer is in a weak position to see what good things he is buying, whether it is of background or purity, for example. I also think that this should be our special objective, and I don't think it's a good idea to think of it as a business obstacle to making rich demands on these topics. But I think, of course, it's part of making Icelandic producers who make a very wholesome product possible to compete with quality products from abroad, because the rules need to be equal. It's a game that cannot be played indefinitely to produce quality products in Iceland and compete with the supplied products produced in chapters prepared under incorruption conditions from abroad. That's my attitude.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u163	V.E.G. President. In my second speech, I will speak only more about the origin order discussed only in Article 1. The bill. It says that it is allowed by a regulations specific to the import of the product. We must wonder, then, how these rules come to look, what demands will be made to those who might move goods to Iceland from these 47 countries. Will this be comparable to what they expect today for imports from the EEA? Or will there be increased or lower demands? I can't wait to see how the Ministers intend to solve it. Now it's time for ministers to look for consumers in their own time, i.e. that consumers know the history of the product they buy, where it comes from, etc. I would like to use this opportunity to encourage those ministers who can change the rules for consumers to do so so so that consumers do not wonder what they are buying. It appears in small letters somewhere on the bacon's originary land, and it does not recognize the history of the blessed animal in its packaging. Just back to the discussion: I expect someone to come to the minister because a minister is not in the room. I don't feel like asking her to come back to the room again. In any case, it is important to learn why the discussion was not more than here and why the laws underlined were not followed. Regarding these 47 countries: My speech has earlier been presented in and for others, of course, there are opportunities to use various factors to help those lands. One thing I did not mention in my first talk, which can be of interest to what we are discussing here - i.e. that most of these countries are producing agricultural or industrial products that they then export - but it's land transplants, how to make up land. Iceland has achieved tremendous success, as it has been observed, in the construction of Iceland's highlands, or Iceland as it does, at one of Europe's largest deserts, to make it up. It has also been found that the land - healing school we call, the United Nations University, has produced an enormously important and valuable person out into the countries they come from. There's too little talk about this school, I think, about this huge contribution from Iceland. There's the possibility that we can spread knowledge more than we do today, but obviously we need funding. They need funding in these schools to receive more students who may not be able to gain strength from home, etc. By strengthening this area, by exporting the knowledge and knowledge that we have, which is wonderful, we can do better. I'd like, for the reason that I'm calling this, to raise a question that I don't quite understand. It came here to offer tens or hundreds of millions to the administrative seat in UNESCO, as I recall. I think we should ask ourselves, " Am I getting more out of it, and the whole world by putting tens of millions or hundreds of millions into the desert deal called the one we are on to, which is preventing water and desertification? ' That would be a very necessary task. It is a work that makes all the world so great, whether in product production or in the effort to fight back and to pollute. Because land erosion and desertification are one of the threats this world faces as it nears the global environment. It's worth a lot of money if we look at these wonderful kingdoms, the 47 under which we live on this bill. I certainly hope that this case will receive a thorough discussion on a committee and that it will be consulted for reviews or consultations that were not made.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u164	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his speech. It is a truly interesting point he enters that has a bearing on land healing and is needed for such projects in many of the countries discussed here. Hv. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson also introduced what was mentioned earlier in the discussion, i.e. The significance and whether the meaning of agrienvironment schemes will be different, which could result in the current toll wage. It's the highest. Minister, after not long ago serving the minister's office, that there are several technical objectives in the light of how this matter is presented to make the same requirements for this import in terms and other imports of agrienvironmental products? Because while we are quite content with the fact that this is a one - sided decline in customs for these 47 nations, I think it would be a great deal of relief if people also canceled the requirements we make for the imported food in the light of food safety that we make so much of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u165	V.E.G. President. I think it's very important in the discussion that we have here in view of this bill, which is in Article 1. it is said that the source information directive can be put in place, that all imports are looked into. But to be careful with all laws and regulations and to be careful that we do not compromise international agreements, e.g. The EEA Convention, I think it's perfectly obvious that the same rules need to apply to Icelandic production, which is just a matter of course. Of course, all these products are to be marked in the same way. You may not be able to mark the packaging for yourself, but at least at least at the store. that there is real and visible information about the content, medicinal product and all we think is needed and it is natural for consumers to know. How is the treatment of the animal? I have heard that in a foreign country where people run luxury areas, clients are asking where the product came from, whether it comes from, where animals are abused, or when drugs are used. There are also parishes for the Icelanders, to mark their goods. I think it would really be the best thing to do if uniform rules were set. I'm no specialist at the EEA Convention. Although I've been a minister on both foreign affairs and in agricultural and marine affairs, I can't say that there's no small type or that it's forbidden. But it would be very strange if it were strictly forbidden to inform consumers about the content or production of goods. If it's done the same way with domestic production, I can only imagine it being legal, and really just normal. If not, is it only conclusively confirmed how wrong this European Union is?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u166	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson for the counter-sponsored. I came into it last year's answer. A senator would have been a minister of foreign affairs recently, and he would have been so successful in hunting that he was also a agricultural minister and a seafaring minister not long ago. That's why I don't think very few of the current storm. Councilmen have more knowledge and understanding of the import environment. What I want to ask you is why. A contemporaneous contrast: How does he measure that this situation is the basis for import in the foreign food that comes to the country, either under the two-sided contracts, whatever food may already be? How does he view their meaning as being in relation to what we have discussed about consumer rights and whether it is reasonable to allow consumers to evaluate the purity, quality, and environment in which the product was produced? It would be interesting to hear a point of view. That's the case with a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u167	V.E.G. President. During the short time I was able to be in the position of a marine eco-efficiency minister, I started a job to look at the possibilities of providing better information to consumers. Sadly, for reasons most people know, autumn was chosen, which was natural nonsense. At that time, certain items, including these, were minimized. However, it is interesting to examine from the current minister whether or not anything has been done with this and see if there is any reason to set general rules for consumers on the meaning of products. I can't see that it's forbidden to pass on Icelandic production, it's consistent, not discrimination. One of the most important elements in this blessed EEA contract is that the homologousness should be very high when it comes to public information, when it comes to products and the like. As a result, it is of course for all consumers, both in Iceland and elsewhere, if there are established information guidelines. I dare not say, but it reminds me that not long ago there was some debate in the European Union that would require more information. However, a regular tablet of the medicine content is presented in the making of meat products. It is quite shocking to see that table, how much drug is used in many European animals. Iceland and Norway stand out as different as to how little medicine is used to make meat. Of course, this is something consumers should be allowed to see and know when they buy goods. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u168	V.E.G. President. First, I want to thank you for this discussion, which has been very up - to - date and may show how important it is in subjects of a degree of magnitude to take a good and deep discussion of the matter. This has been very illuminating. What I discussed here in my first speech was how small kingdoms often find themselves shut down by larger groups and larger countries. I even witnessed. so that the countries that accompany us in this contract that we are now doing with 47 poor countries are world champions of the colony and have centuries of experience in it. This shows that when dealing with such parties, there is a great need to be careful. Iceland and I have recently had a very bitter experience with it ourselves by making a very bad deal with the European Union, a customs agreement, which was made up of almost a single part of the marine road and agricultural secretary and we are now biting off the needle. That's a terrible thing to do when you look at e.g. the amount of meat in both the agreements that the European Union is pouring in here thousands of tons of meat, both of pig and bull, but instead we are opening a very small amount of skirmish, which, however, is a unique product and should be natural, except for our clumsiness in part written Icelandic brand everywhere, similar to the Greek use of foot cheese in Greek. When these people meet where one is very small and weak, while the other is large and powerful, there is a danger of failure. Therefore, in my speech earlier, it was my concern that we should strive for it and keep it in agreement with these countries, which, in fact, are confined to international organizations such as those that we are now in the company by making this contract, to use them not in the same agreements that the European Union used to treat us when the toll agreement was made. At the time, there was a measure of pity because the European Union had taken its feet by several years to make this contract with Iceland. It may be that men have simply lost their scars, men have gagged on this expedition because the deal is at least made naturally evil for us Icelanders. You'll find that better. Also, there is something else that has been a little discussed here, and I agree that most of it is the risk that the products produced in these 47 poor countries will in some way become internationally diseased on the way here, that their origins will not be quite smart, as if I pointed out by the tulips transferred to Africa and grow up there in a very short time, going back to Holland and in the cell and being sold in Dutch passports throughout Europe. We have other examples that fall in the same direction. I can give an example of a Finnish pig born there but raised in Germany, slaughtered in Poland, moved back to Finland, and has a Finnish passport, sold everywhere in the world as a Finnish pig. These are the things we need to consider and take note that we will not. It has, for example. It is pointed out that the chicken we have moved in frozen from Denmark is not at all Danish, it can be from Argentina or Thailand or from anywhere. It is this danger that we may need to consider when considering these matters. We need to make sure that, as you say, it's done for all the ends of this case. We need to determine this so that we do not suffer tragedy.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u169	A respectable president. We're discussing a very interesting deal, i.e. A tax advantages to the products of a small developed country, estimated to be 47 according to the latest information the Minister gave us here. I've been observing this discussion, which has taken place in the Senate, and I've been very interesting, and I've raised some questions. Maybe what I wanted to ask you was. A senator with regard to the origin of product. These products are now to be marked from their underdeveloped state. What has a what? A member of the United States suggests that such a historical point cannot be trusted? He spoke up that they would be internationalized on the way here. Does he feel that there is nothing to determine the origin of the term, or what does the senator mean? Of course, it is extremely bad if nations, perhaps developed nations, grab in there and interfere with the export of goods to developed countries from underdeveloped countries and divide fires into their own cakes. How does he see that this could happen? This is not the amount of money we are talking about. V.E.G. Minister said it would be less than an hour. 3.5 million. K. This one-year, this import, we're not talking about the highest, but the highest. A minister spoke of this as a serious matter for the state of the State.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u170	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator very much for this answer. I think we have some problems to make sure that the origin of the one marked is correct, not especially from those 47 countries, but even more. It is a real challenge for us to verify that our origin is correct. This has now been experienced in the euphoric state of the human race, i.e. In the European Union, which is the land of dreams of some in here. I remember three or four years ago, quite a number of raggedy old horses were sold as the best beef all over Europe. This caused great shock, understandable shock, of course, and of natural gross goods. I'm not completely aware of how to prevent this. The problem is, here in Iceland, we ourselves do not have the most basic point of origin. True, that is so. I know that a nice business north of the country, which I suspect is one of our presidents sitting here, has, for example. with birthmarked lamb. This is exemplary because, of course, we should be able to walk from where we are from. I think we need to make a great deal of effort on our own in order to find out in a sincere way and make sure that what we are importing to us is actually the product she is said to be on the package.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u171	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson for his answers. In this regard, I wondered about other things. V.E.G. A minister spoke of Iceland's taking on a significant step and sharing in international cooperation to help these countries export their products, although the import of Iceland was extremely small, 3.5 billion. K. V.E.G. A minister also speaks of 97% of the goods listed to be restricted to customs and listed some products that were used for special protection. I don't quite understand it, and I haven't looked at the toll file on exactly which goods it is, but she talked about fish and fruit and animals and something like that. I want to ask you why. A member of the council to find out what these products are most likely to be from the underdeveloped, less developed countries. Does he have any idea what such small amounts of goods are involved? And every time, whether it's any domestic competition that would get hit by this one. There's another question I'd like to ask in any continent and in what parts of the world these countries are, whether or not. A senator knows what state he is talking about. Otherwise, I just want to thank you for this discussion, which has been very illuminating.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u172	V.E.G. President. You're right. A senator tells us that this is an opportunity for us to support the poor economic conditions of these lands. Even though we may be few and a little, these countries may remember that, with a year's income per person perhaps a few hundred or even 100 dollars, something like that. It's a natural thing to do this to raise these people's potential for survival. We understand this well because for centuries we were under the yoke of colonial blackmail and know what a free store did for us Icelanders. Perhaps that's why we're celebrating the 100 - year - old sovereignty of the country that year, that free trade was the foundation of it. Exactly which countries they are, I don't have the list, he doesn't follow up on the report. I imagine they're countries in Asia and Africa. However, that is intriguing and when there is trouble. A senator asks this question, and you should naturally work to look it up in order to be completely clear, as well as to get it on clean any products we are moving in. Hv. A senator mentioned that there were only a few toll numbers that had worn a toll, but it's just a few hours away. Senator. On the contrary, almost every agricultural product has been admissible in Iceland for years. It's just that people haven't figured it out, and they've kept climbing that we've got a supertoll on agricultural products. It's just not right. [[The president calls.]] There are more, more numbers that have been free for years.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u173	A respectable president. I agreed with what I thought. A senator, but he can't squeeze me, because of it. A senator mentioned the secret agreement made on customs, asking questions. Senator. As he described this agreement - and I make it up, reiterate it, a respectable president, that I agree with this description, the assessment - you will think of what we discussed earlier in this discussion, about the risks that can arise against developing countries when larger countries, developed by industrial agricultural products, pile into the market for little and in some cases nothing. In some cases, this is called a development aid, but it can cause the destruction of home production, which can provide cheap agricultural products, cheap food for short periods. The result? Home production is ruined. And the damage to society will be enormous. You have to wonder if Iceland, this developed country, and indeed not poverty, can be affected similarly in this respect. Of course, circumstances are different. But is there a danger, if we don't think that customs contracts are mutual, and people agree on both sides, that the excess production of factories from steroid populations abroad can cause lasting and serious damage to Icelandic food production?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u174	V.E.G. President. That's absolutely right. A senator says. I gave a warning during my earlier years here at the council. I remembered a story from sub - Saharan countries that were food - producing countries and exported food. Then, both foreign and domestic wise advised them to give up this struggle and to move on to something more profitable. So they obeyed the call to stop producing food to the same extent that they once did. Then, a drought made a drought. As soon as they stopped producing the product themselves, everything will be raised. They've been admiring it here in Iceland to be able to go to a good price for foreign beef; it's probably bought at a good price, but the price won't pay them all the way to consumers. I'm convinced that if this import becomes available, and it can be good, to harm beef production and cow farming in Iceland, the price that we're invited to do. That is exactly what happened in sub - Saharan countries. As soon as they stopped producing food that was sufficient for them, the higher neighbors became hungry. It wouldn't happen here, but it's pretty sure we could be sold and we're already part of it because they're importing pigs and cattle from those areas in Europe where one of the greatest antibiotics is. So we are certainly in danger of this. We also hear the representatives of these manufacturers, both cow farmers and pig farmers, being concerned about their interests.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u175	A respectable president. It's a bit vivid to this danger that I understand that the excess production of one Danish milk follicle, like a Danish milk producer, sometimes outruns in production, as it turns out, could tire the market in Iceland. They could see, technically, if everything were open here, pile their excess product one year, one year's loss, into the Icelandic market, destroy our production capacity and our market, and the rest of it even was a smoking wreck. Then they would go something else or raise the price of something like that. A senator pointed out. Does this not make us anxious, especially in view of what has been seen on this agricultural and food - producing regime in Iceland? In case of a moment. A senator has studied the conclusions of the Independence Party after the recent discovery of that convention must have shocked him, since the main emphasis was placed on a recession. In fact, in terms of the forwarding party, I don't think he's determined his agri-gri-gri-gritty, but the Party didn't go with the Ministry of Agriculture; it didn't know how to reason about a group of lawsuits that heard under the Minister of the Independence Party. Anyway. We see the policy of this government, and we made it, in contrast with what some might be hoping for, does not seem to be ready to defend Icelandic food production. On the contrary, it puts up this financial program for a sustained cut-off in support of agriculture in Iceland. In other words, a sustained reduction in the average farm population, and as a result, the situation of the Icelandic agricultural field is gradually weakened. At that time, we may be even more vulnerable to the pressures that are certainly on the outside.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-08-60.u176	Mr. President. So much is certain that I read or heard recently that the second or third largest, that I think Arla's milk farm, the giant, has produced in all Scandinavian countries, Sweden, Norway and Denmark at least. Although it is not a competitive law for this production as it is here, it is 3% of the company in Denmark but larger than MS is here. This 3% company in Denmark could best, if they had a chance, feed the market here with considerable proportions and, in all cases, if left. Of course, there is a particular concern, a state of concern. A senator, as shown in the financial program of the present government, points out that sheep farmers are supposed to be stuck in persistent poverty. However, it is in itself a very reverse and major market failure not to be able to produce in Iceland - something unique in the world about flavors and tastes - goods for exporting. The one here is planning to find out what happened to the 29.3% decrease in sheep farmers during the last fall. I don't see that the reduction has reached my plate all the way. I am going to find out what happened to the one - third loss, or less than what the farmers were offered. And now, apparently, farmers must remain in a pit of poverty.
