ParlaMint-IS_2018-07-17-80.u1	On the grounds that the Council is now meeting for a special conference in the middle of the summer, I'd like to offer you a good time. All council members welcome the work. Today's conference is in preparation for the General Assembly meeting that will become a law on the Axes River tomorrow, in the year of the 100 years from the signing of the Community Convention on July 18, 1918, here at the General Assembly Hall. I have found meetings with the chairman of a council and with the Committee on the Presidency this morning reviewing the arrangement of the Parliament and on the basis of a good agreement and the issues scheduled for this occasion. The president estimates that a meeting doesn't last very long today, or something until the fourth time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-07-17-80.u2	Borist has received a letter from the chairman of Porta's Council of Congress that Halldóra Mogensen, 11th. Smoke. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Today, therefore, at the Second Council, a deputy of the district's list, Elísa Þórðardóttir Thordddddóttir, who has announced pasturage. Elísa, the daughter of Þórðardóttir, who has once taken up residence at the General Assembly, is welcome to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-07-17-80.u3	Mr. President. I recommend a synopsis of projects for Iceland's 100th fiscal anniversary for children and young people and research contributes to the sustainable use of the ocean's resources. The proposal is brought together by the presidents of the political parties represented at the General Assembly. It's twofold, and it's like this: The Council concludes, on the basis of the anniversary of Iceland's independence and sovereignty: a. Compiled will be Iceland's Children's Culture Fund, which will be funded for the next five years, 2019/2023, 100 million. K. every year. While it aims to finance and strengthen child - culture projects, it will also emphasize projects that promote social awareness and contribute to the democracies of children in the community and to projects that contribute to the continuation of the children's contract, the United Nations Convention on Child's Rights. Every two years there will be a Children's Council, which will address issues related to children and young people and their interests. Prime Minister's ship of five men is the management of the fund and five officers. The fund's management reports the distribution of funds on the baby's day every year. Prime Minister, make further rules about how the fund operates in terms of fund control. They will be published in Government News. Rannis, the National Research Centre of Iceland, oversees the management and heads of the fund. b. The oceans will be built by means of financial contributions for the next three years, 2019,2021, which will be divided into 300 million. K. will be designed and prepared in 2019 and 1,600 billion. K. each year 2020 and 2021 to build the ship. Marine and agricultural ministers will be committed to this operation. Mr. President. As we have seen, this proposal is proposed for the anniversary of Iceland's independence and capitalisation and aims to promote tasks for children and young people and, on the other hand, to further research on life and resources in the seas around Iceland. For example, in 1994 a children's culture fund was founded on the Republic's anniversary and Year of the Family, with the role of strengthening child - culture projects. The current fund was terminated in 2016. The cultural involvement of children and young people is an important part of living in a free society, and cultural and cultural elements are important factors in the development of young people. The culture and art of dating children and young people add to the wideness and tolerance of life. Participation in cultural work increases awareness of democracy, justice, and historical context. Is it common to believe that as we celebrate the anniversary of Iceland's independence and sovereignty, it is appropriate to establish a new and powerful children's culture that supports art and culture projects designed for children or by active participation in children. The goal is to strengthen children for active participation in cultural, artistic, design, and innovation, thus highlighting the creative power of children and young people who will become key tools in the challenges facing us during the fourth industrial revolution. The procedure will guide the fund to strengthen tasks carried out for children, children, and children. Also, the proposal allows for emphasis on activities that promote community consciousness and for promoting the growing democratic involvement of children in the community and the continuing implementation of a child's contract. Special attention will be given to projects that are designed to promote community participation in the children of immigrants and refugees and children who are in poor economic conditions. I've already started work on reexamination of children's emissary laws, including those. plan to establish a child council in place as a focus on the status and interest of children and young people in this country and in an international setting. Rannis, the National Research Centre of Iceland, is expected to care for the management of the fund, already taking care of other funds in the field of culture, art, and youth service. The fund's management will be organized by prime minister according to the nominees of the Secretary of Education and Culture, from the office of the Children's Office, one at the recommendation of the European Union of Artists, and one at the recommendation of the World Council of Youth, while the chairman of the Board of Ministers will be appointed by the Prime Minister. Mr. President. The second section of the proposal states that a ship of marine research will be built with a special addition of funding for the next three years. The use of marine resources laid the basis for the economic independence of the Icelanders, and hence the sovereignty, and it is government policy that the use of living marine resources is based on best available knowledge and advice. Iceland has been on a number of missions when it comes to researching seawaters and oceans and is viewed as an example to us in this regard. Changes have occurred in the environment of the sea, climates are changing, ocean currents are changing. The marine water system is changing, and in the waters around Iceland and north of us, these changes are much and faster. Norwegian species are retreating to the north, south-south species are on the move. An example of these changes is that a northern species has already moved north into the sea. Ecosystem monitoring and change of individual organisations are a major challenge. This requires careful monitoring of carbon and marine acidification. An increase in plastic pollution and other contamination also requires additional research, as well as an increase in microbiological research. Already the ocean bottom mapping and the top of Iceland's laws are being initiated, which is a very large piece of work, requiring a great supply of powerful ships, which is planned to complete the task within ten years. A new and well-proven ocean vessel is essential for these studies as well as for other marine and fish research. Icelanders need to have good research and research systems that can handle marine and environmental research, and they also play an important role in teaching, and it is important that a new ocean research ship be able to do both instruction and research for university students but also instruction and training for other schools. A new ocean-based ship will replace early research systems, the Bjarna Seymundsson, who is about to be 50 years old and will no longer pass the requirements for research systems for equipment and equipment beyond being heavily involved in business. This suggests that Iceland can remain in charge in good relations with nature and marine and fish research. A respectable president. I'm not going to put my case beyond the suggestion that after this discussion the case will be referred to. The General and Education Committee will agree with the proposal. A professional board and a second round. and payment for the meeting of the General Assembly, held tomorrow, July 18th, to a law on the Plains of the Axar River.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-07-17-80.u4	Mr. President. Today, a major turning point is a turning point, and it is appropriate to remember it with good works that matter for our future as a nation. It is no secret that we in the United States would have preferred that at this momentous milestone the nation could welcome a new constitution, that the Council of Governments had been completed and approved in the 100th anniversary. But I'm not, and that's a big disappointment. The gifts for which political parties have agreed to make a suggestion are practical, but mostly timely and practical. For example, a child culture fund with a broad role that encourages all children to be democracies is important; a fund that encourages artistic creation and that children enjoy art and culture is an especially appropriate gift. Our children are the future, and we should cherish them every day, but this milestone gives us reason to do even better in that regard. The design of a ocean - research ship is also an important and timely gift. It speaks to the nation's history and to the livelihood for centuries, yet more to the future, through studies that the nation can learn from and contribute to the society of the nations. The climate is not asking about borders. It is very close to us Icelanders to investigate the effects of climate change on the marine environment. The erosion and warming of the sea, changing the behavior of fish stocks, increasing surfaces, pollution, and overfishing are all threats to be overcome by vigorous and clear means. We are to take care of our resources, and we must contribute to this important matter. This requires research and research. A new ocean - research ship is essential for us, and it is vital that we make sure that our children receive the encouragement and care that they have the opportunity to develop, create, and enjoy.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-07-17-80.u5	Mr. President. I give support to what has been recommended here by the presidents of the political parties. I think it is appropriate that we remember the 100th anniversary of the country's sovereignty on such projects. The projects, each of them, are important and worthy, but most important is that the Council remembers the turning point in the nation's history, underlining the importance of the sovereignty to all of us, and safeguards the fundamental values established by our sovereignty. The work being done has to do with each in its own way an appeal to the sovereignty. On the one hand, it is essential that we be a nation among the nations that our culture thrives. How is that better than that, by advancing it among the youngest generations, by strengthening projects that make it possible for young people to thrive in the culture field, get to know culture, and engage in it? However, there is an important task related to research on marine resources, which, like the highest. The prime minister mentioned in his background speech has provided the basis for us to develop a prosperous land in those 100 years. The use of marine resources has been an important part of our ability to stand and build up the community we live in. This is a worthy and important project, but as I said at the outset, it is most important that we remember the value of being a sovereign state and how important it was in 1918 when we signed the Community Convention, which was in its own way an enormously important milestone, both formally and materially, while the beginning of the final phase of the nation's independence campaign. I think we can get together on these projects. I think it's a project we're supposed to be able to handle together. And at this 100 - year milestone, how worthy and important it is that we find tasks that we can meet for the sake of disagreements and conflicts that are, of course, enough for another time!
ParlaMint-IS_2018-07-17-80.u6	V.E.G. President. By permission of the President: Rise, Iceland flag. Centuries follow centuries, And the families of the land bring thanksgiving, For the nation of their own shall sit here to rule, Until our land is burned by a Surtarlog. Let's look and find. Life to us calls. A land was given to us, the golden blue. We pray that we may all bow down. flowering and waxing - for the next thousand years So Davíð the son of Stefánsson wrote in one of his songs, to the plains of Theth. Like many family songs, this song serves as a reminder of the struggle that existed for decades and years before the coming of the sovereignty on December 1, 1918. The sovereignty did not come on by itself. It was a chapter in a long struggle. Iceland is a young republic, although the council is the oldest. The fight that formalists and our fathers fought for the sovereignty and freedom should be held in high esteem and should remind us of the value of these things. We who have enjoyed visiting Iceland in the West, discussing with our cousins and others how valuable the republic and the republic are to these people and how valuable the land was to their ancestors and to their brothers who had to flee in the land they so much loved. V.E.G. President. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson was presented to a group of eight members who made a motion during the last council proposal that the reign day of December 1 would be set aside for a legal holiday. Sadly, that proposal did not succeed. I'm counting, chief. President, that at the end of the birthday year of 2018, the General should recall the sovereignty further and accept December 1 as a general legal holiday. V.E.G. President. We'll discuss a Senate resolution made by the directors of every category in the General Assembly. The motion is divided. First, it is suggested that the children's culture fund be formed in Iceland, which will receive funding for the next five years. Strengthening child - culture projects, stressing projects that promote social awareness, and contributing to the democratic involvement of children in society and projects that contribute to the continuation of the children's contract to name something. The Party of the Central Party rejoices in the support of children's culture, culture, and community involvement. The culture that has so much roots in history is important for the future. Second, a ocean - research vessel is proposed to be established by means of contributions for the next three years. The independence of each nation is based on many independent but synergistic factors, one of which is economic independence. The prelude we have on fishing roads is also building. Because the highly fired and strong sector has been able to invest in the future, thus being a step ahead of competitive people. Such activities are not necessarily important; they remain strong and live as the most stable and safe environment. It is developing to know as well as best the marine environment, how it develops and changes, how to continue using it in a sustainable and careful way. That requires powerful scientists and best equipment. The members of the Central Party, in particular, rejoice that the presidents of political parties will make a new, powerful ocean - research ship. The two issues presented here are put together in one form, each of which is important, important, and effective in remembering the sovereignty. Then the Central Party will support the proposal as high as possible. The President will measure for later today. But never forget that a nation that is not in control of its own country and resources, how it is new and protected, is not free and is not sovereign. V.E.G. President. In recent years some have felt that sovereignty and independence can be impaired by applying more and more of the laws and regulations that others make and set. There are those who feel that this is not enough and who want to walk the alliances of other countries, thus giving up much of the self - determination rights of the sovereigns and the free state to foreign parties. May that never happen. V.E.G. President. Good citizens of the country. Let's celebrate the Reich. Let's go, Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-07-17-80.u7	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss a synopsis proposal for projects on the grounds of Iceland's 100th fiscal anniversary for children and young people, and research contributes to the sustainable use of the ocean's resources. The proposal has been prepared by representatives of all political parties in the General Assembly. The suggestion is twofold. On one hand, it focuses on children and young people, and it is for the development of research in the interest of life and resources in the seas around Iceland. This is fitting, since the future is the children's and the resources of the land are theirs. In fact, many people believe that the quality of life of a nation can be measured by what they do for their children in the community. Icelandic society, like most other communities, can do better in that area and an existing proposal is an important step in that direction. As 100 years have passed since the contracts for full independence and freedom on their own matters have passed, it will not be impossible to look back and think of those who were fighting. I'm taking my hat off for the people who fought for our rights. It seems self - righteous, but it came into existence only for the hard times, hard work, and perseverance of those who cleared the way. In this century, there have been threats to the sovereignty. They have become the financial independence of the nation, the protection of nature, and the participation and responsibility of international cooperation. The sovereignty does not come naturally, and we need to take good care of it. As a nation, we need to be able to communicate with one another, to exercise skill in dealing with other nations, to share the world with others. Young people's small campaign is a concern because the key to democracy in the sovereign states is election. So I welcome this proposal that supports the democratic involvement of children in society by establishing a new and powerful children's culture that will give special attention to projects that promote the creative power of children and young people and their ability to participate in the evolution of the so - called fourth industrial revolution. V.E.G. President. The second aspect of the proposal is equally important, since the purpose of a new ocean research vessel strengthens our position as a nation, which is seen in the sustainable use of resources based on research and best knowledge at one time. The sustainable use of our resources is, in fact, the basis for economic sovereignty. So it must always be our goal to continue bringing our resources back to our descendants in a better condition than when we accepted them. The year 1918 truly did not resemble the year 2018 in weather conditions. True, this year's natural well - being has been divided, and the weather has varied with people, as is often true in our good country. After a single - time period, the pagans and countries in the East are much better off than in the summer of 1918 when people were driven away because of difficult circumstances. In 1918, Frostaves came close to people who faced a hard struggle for life. The modern - day woman I can't relate to Jóhanna's daughter María Jónsdóttir, who was a maid in the Gorges during the winter. We knew each other well, she was an adult, but I lived at different times, and I am grateful for the foundation that was laid in her time. V.E.G. President. I give full support to this proposal. She is a good joint project and a plan for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-07-17-80.u8	A respectable president. The current core school is based on six basics: locks, creation, equality, sustainableness, health and well - being, and finally democracy. Why are these six basic factors and not others? In the premeditation of the primary course, this is simply answered, by permission of the president: It is important to cultivate the knowledge, skill, and attitudes that will strengthen the future's ability to be critical, active, and qualified participants in an equal and democratic society. These fundamental factors include should be adjusted. The general citizen must be educated sufficiently so that he can provide normal means for rulers, whether in financial matters, politics, media, or other matters. Also says: ▪ Children and young people are expected to learn democracy by learning about democracy. A basic curriculum is a product of professional work designed to enforce the will of the Generals. Law on High School, No. 91/2008, the objective of the elementary school is specified in 2nd. par.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: To promote the general development of all students and their participation in a democratic society that is constantly developing, the work of basic schools, in cooperation with their homes, is to promote the general development of all students. The suggestion that we consider highlights democracy in the words: At the same time, projects that promote social awareness and contribute to the democratic participation of children in society and projects will be promoted to the continuation of the child's contract. The children's covenant says: ▪ In each Member State, a child must be assured that, in accordance with his age and development, he who can develop his own opinions properly to express them freely in all matters of which he or she is concerned. It's a good idea to strengthen a child's culture for these democratic projects, but basic schools and principal school laws are not the only reason why it's a good idea to promote democracy. We who live in Iceland want to create a just society where everyone sits at the same table. Unlike our backgrounds, we have and are responsible for the inheritances of our generations, our country, our nature, our history, our language, and our culture. Iceland is a free and sovereign state with freedom, equality, and democracy on cornerstones. Governments shall work on the welfare of the country, promote their culture, and respect the diversity of life, land, and life. We want to promote peace, security, peace, and happiness among us and future generations. We resolve to work with other nations for peace and respect for the earth and for all mankind. With this ideal, we put ourselves under the new constitution, the highest law in the country to be respected by all. According to a bill's exposition to a new constitution since 2011. Hopefully, the projects that are strengthened by this proposal will lead to a powerful democracy, a democracy that knows the equal degree of votes, the relative division of Parliamentarians, national votes; democracy that may listen to and trust the young people for their own votes. Whatever the age of the individual's choice, this arrangement is an opinion that must be taken into account. With this proposal in the future, hopefully the decision will also be taken into account regardless of location, relative composition, and motive.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-07-17-80.u9	Mr. President. We now remember 100 years from the signing of the treaty covenant in the International Assembly Hall of July 18, 1918. With him Iceland became a sovereign and independent state in a royal relationship with Denmark, who for some time took up caring for national issues, especially in the area of foreign affairs and land care. The highest court of justice moved to the country with the establishment of the 1920 Supreme Court, the government's tenures began the same year with the purchase of the patrol of Thor from the Western Rescue Society, while all other ships that had previously been on land and carried out their lifesaving work were Danish. The decisions the Council is about to make, and I give full support to commemorate the major turning point in the history of the nation. Children can be expected to benefit from a child's culture, for children are the future of the nation; by a ocean - study ship, the basis for the marine spread of a law from 1948 on the scientific protection of the national fishing grounds, as well as the publishing of books that have fallen to connect them more closely with their culture and language. Mr. President. I congratulate the Icelandic people with a major milestone in their history, the 100th anniversary of their sovereign and independent Iceland. On our shoulders we have the obligation to protect the national sovereignty and independence that the nation has given to its influence in many ways. Remember the leaders of Iceland's independence campaign, with President Jón, the son of Sigurðsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-07-17-80.u10	Mr. President. We'll discuss a proposal for a resolution of projects for Iceland's 100-year sovereignty anniversary for children and young people and research contributes to the sustainability of marine resources. These are practical and dignified suggestions for this important milestone, and it is a pleasure to see how well - held harmony has been achieved, as shown in the discussions, at this turning point; that the Council is united in projects such as the ones we discuss here. The Conspiracy proposal hides even in that a powerful children's culture will be established, which has the responsibility of funding and strengthening child culture projects. At the same time, special emphasis will be given on a project that contributes to the democratic involvement of children in the community. This is an enormously important task, and we see the concern that the campaign program of young people has diminished in society. When we remember this most important milestone in the national independence campaign, we need to consider how we can improve the participation of children and young people in a democratic society. The cornerstone of our independence and sovereignty is the democratic government order, and it is not fully achieved by its purpose except by the active and more powerful involvement of all society groups. Again, research shows that the campaign program of young people has diminished. That is a sobering and sobering development. It is important that young people take an active part in Icelandic society's integration into politics and their right to vote. But it is equally important for young people to experience listening to their viewpoints, to be entrusted with participation in democratic society, that their words have weighed, and that we trust them even. to increase participation in rural governments, such as the Allied Council discussed in the past winter; important matters, but unfortunately they did not succeed. Thus, at the Cradle in particular, we rejoice that the establishment of a children's culture will be just in order to accomplish its purpose, furthering the democratic involvement of young people. Then I'm glad that this is a meeting for the construction of a new ocean research vessel. Few countries, if any, are equally dependent on the sustainable use of ocean resources. Marine emissions are and have been the basis for the economic progress of the Icelandic nation during the entire environment period. At these critical times, we are facing just new and dangerous challenges in the global climate change and the impact it has on sea currents and on marine life. Therefore, it is important that the Council cooperates with the need for major research in order to cope with that disaster. Finally, I would appreciate it if the council agreed on another important project in the coming winter that is simply building up the dignity and respect of the council itself. We are concerned that at this critical point, we are still living in a position where the confidence of the public in Generalis is greatly low. All of us, a whole body of Congress, need to gather together on ways to strengthen and restore trust in the council and how we personally can contribute to such trust. We welcome the milestones of the 100th anniversary of the sovereignty. We revere specifically and support the suggestions presented here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-07-17-80.u11	Mr. President. I would like to propose a synopsis on the cooperation of the Generals and the Icelandic literary Society to celebrate the 100th anniversary of Iceland. Transporters along with me are members of the Committee to Presidency, i.e. The one standing here. Councilmen of Góln Brjánsson Brubbur the son of Níelsson, Þorsteinn the son of Sæmundsson, Þórunn the Egilsdóttir of Eglil, Jón Þór the son of Ólafsson, the Bryndís of Bordid, the Haraldsdóttir of Hamald, the Sæland, the Gaand, and the Þorsteinn Víglundsson of Wazlund. The suggestions are as follows: The Council concludes working together with the Icelandic literary Society on the publishing of two publications: a. A work on a Tingle in Icelandic art, b. a new work on the history of Icelandic literature from land mine to the 21st century. Further, the General concluded to support the publication financially with annual funds until the projects are completed, on the basis of a contract made there by the prime committee on behalf of the Generals and the Icelandic literary Society and the Education and Culture Ministry, confirmed. Mr. President. There is no need to comment on the motive associated with this proposal. If you can say one place in Iceland that the Icelandic heart is beating there, it's the Moon field. The history of the Þingalva and the history of the Þingvala are very interwoven, and therefore the prime committee finds it most appropriate to contribute to the publication of a book of the Þingalga, as they have published over a long period of time the leading artists and painters of the nation. The objective is to bring forth the beauty of the place, as those of our leading artists have seen and interpreted it. Then it is most appropriate that this type of cooperation with the Icelandic literary society belongs to the General Assembly. Of course, if there is one society, such as the Þings, one place that is interwoven with the history of independence, it is the Icelandic literary society, which is the oldest civilization in the country, and which represents the metropolitan activities, and has done in all its history and gives, even. I am told, the oldest magazine in the north, where there is baptism. If so, the Icelandic literary Society became 200 years old in 2016, and in connection with that birthday there was also a discussion that the Allied Parliament and the Icelandic literary Society would contribute to their cooperation. Now, in this way, the Council supports two highly melancholy and important editions that the Icelandic literary Society has recently prepared. The second is the publication of a new literary history, a complete edition, but it is in short and accessible in the history of Icelandic literature from the beginning to the present day. This is in harmony with the resolution adopted by the General Assembly for celebrations in 2018, when it was spoken of as being without any doubt as being cultural and its language the basis for its liberation in the 18th and 19th centuries. Both these projects, the Þingles as well as their share in Icelandic art and literary history, are very well connected with the subject. The cost of preparation and publishing of these two works can be estimated to be a total of some 253/430 million. K. and that money may be divided over three years, in 2019◯2021. The second part of the proposal's report is made a detailed explanation for the presentation itself, and I refer to the explanation and support presented there. Finally, I suggest that the suggestion be made for a second session. and the Board of Education and Public Affairs.
