ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u1	The President has received a request for a request to resume. Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson calls again a petition to the social and equal minister of the threshing floor. 387 cases 285, the Ministers and Drivers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u2	Borist has a letter from the financial and economic secretary asking for every appointment to give a written answer to a letter on the spell. 724, on board staff, from the Þorgerður of K. Gunnarsdóttir. Borist has received a letter from the transport and local secretary's office asking for every request to give a written answer to a covering query. 741, the traffic violations of foreign tourists, from Birgir's Þórarinsson. Finally, a letter from the Environment and Resource Minister has been received on request every request to provide a written answer for the requested request. 744, for the studies and safety measures due to soil erosion in the Bolven, from the Ólafur Ísleifsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u3	A respectable president. During these last few days, confidential talk has been conducted here at the council. Councilmen's clown, it's amongst council members. Faith in our jobs. It is important that the senator's work is confidential, and the rules of e - mail, and so on, between us here at the Senate Hall, between us at the council committees. It's a serious problem that I sent an e - mail that was only hours away to a media center that I don't appreciate very much. This shows that one of the people who received this e-mail has leaked it into the central medium. It is surprising that we cannot be sure that our messages are to be passed solely on to the way they should go. I have previously learned that information from the council goes to this media medium. We're gonna remember a leak on the board of administration and monitoring committees here for a few years. I think the respect of the council must increase. In this regard, we must take decisive action so that we can show trust in one another in our work. We have different opinions about things, but we must be able to trust that what we say and what we send between us here is not exactly in the media. There's no work here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u4	A respectable president. I would like to discuss two of my interests, vaccinations, and screenings, both important preventive measures, which have only been left to our society, as the members of the Parliament undoubtedly know from the discussions of the past few days. More than before, people choose not to reach out for their children's vaccinations and to the greater extent to be present for screens that could help find therapeutic diseases, to develop various cancers. Human health is very important to those matters. We have a relatively good health status, which is not by chance but by chance. of the fact that the Icelanders have long been concerned with these factors. This is of utmost importance in public health, and I do not talk about the welfare of the nation. There are a considerable number of major diseases that can almost be ruled out by immunization, and there are many difficult diseases that can be prevented by the practice of cancer screening. This is important. I'll be in the next few days and weeks we'll talk about it at the highest. A health minister and a member of a health committee whether it is not a reason for the Ministry and the Committee to adopt these factors and to consider these matters in order to ensure that the nation continues to be one of the most healthy nations in the world. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u5	Mr. President. I last spoke from this chair about the health of the elderly 65 years of age and older. I'm going to discuss now the health benefits of other much older people, who are Iceland's glaciers. As you know, it has been found that since 1995, with an ever improved measure, the yield or health of these glaciers has been negative everywhere. One year, it's 2015, but otherwise it's all downhill, and the decline at this time is 250 cubic miles [250 cuc km], i.e. 250 billion cubic meters of ice that have disappeared. There's more than one Hofskoll, just so you know. Now, this is our main reservoir for activation and other activities. Prevention or cure is only one, i.e. One is to reduce the emissions of carbon gases, as everyone knows, and then to bind more carbon. The same is really true of another problem that is more and more difficult to deal with, or we should say worse, no matter what our view is, the acidification of the sea. That's where the same thing goes. There is no cure other than the one I mentioned, the one that reduces emissions, and the other, to bind carbon. I'll talk about it here because we're the biggest players in the peculiarity in which the world has come, both at home and on a global scale. I challenge us, as I have done before in this discourse, to deal with it in a transverse way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u6	A respectable president. I'd like to discuss only the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Disorientated People, in view of our validation of the important agreement, and still have the council to take over. About a Senate resolution I've previously made on a total legal re-examination. We have validated this agreement, but our legal rights as they are currently fail to meet the demands of our contract to respect independence and the self - determination of disabled persons. In this context, we do well to review where a person with mental illness, mental - health, or mental disorder and what kind of wrongdoing we are, in fact, still in our other general democratic country toward this group. The law of law does not guarantee the right to treat those who may be deprived of self - control or saved to an institution, as is sometimes referred to. The treatment guidelines there are blurred. They are poor and discriminating people on the basis of disability. For example, people may be deprived of their freedom just because they suffer from a serious mental illness, if they are likely to have a serious mental illness or condition. If we just take this case, it is a legal discrimination against people with mental illness. It is very clear in all opinions that have been mentioned on the rights of disabled people, and it is also very clear in the UN Convention on the rights of disabled people that we will eliminate all discrimination in the law of disabled people. I'd like to reiterate the importance of our putting together and changing these laws in the first place. I call to the council members' attention to the existing eulogy proposal and ask for it at the highest level. President to hasten the handling of this matter. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u7	A respectable president. I believe that I and a respectable president share in common the privilege of having been in a march on May 1, perhaps more often than I do. Because I walked one of these, I now met a meeting on May 1. and warmed me by the labor movement's demands, I wondered what it is that the labor movement is asking the government and us inside to do. The labor movement has called for a social package, that, in connection with collective agreements, there are some improvements in social reforms. It is good to keep that in mind and to rejoice that the government has already shown that it has taken steps in this regard. In February, the government issued a declaration in connection with the decision for continuation, whether to extend agreements, which was completely independent of the decision, showing that there is a real desire to win such a social package. The joyous news came to pass on May 1 that part of them improved in effect that day. At that time, the basic benefits of unemployment increased from over 227,000 dollars. At 270,000 bucks, which is 90% of the day's work insurance. There are more initiatives ahead: July 1st, the maximum monthly budget of pay from the pay fund increases and then we need to continue our conversation and negotiations with the labor movement for the next steps related to collective agreements and work on that. But May 1st is to be celebrated.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u8	Mr. President. Yesterday, a conference on opportunities for travel in a digital world was held. There were many interesting topics. I would like to start by commending the Icelandic tourist and travel agency for being diligent in sending their meetings online, so everyone has the opportunity to listen to the meeting despite not having the opportunity to be there. There would be many more who would be pleased to imitate themselves. Among the lecturers was Doug Lansky, a travel counselor. He introduced a number of factors that could benefit both governments and international tourism. He even came. into the problems of too many tourists, or perhaps rather a tourist who is unstable, as he spoke, where it would clearly be possible to spread the country better to tourists. A key point, though, would be to have another fine airport to make in the Northeast, which opened the possibility of welcoming tourists who would spend four or five days in the area, of course, very happy with the trip, and then return to the same airport. Another airport would be a key because as long as everyone passed through the same airport, everyone would also go to these traditional places through the southwest corner. As noted, there are opportunities to open more gates into the country. This calls for calming all years. Mr. President. Today, we are conducting a spring conference for the Northland Marketing Laboratory and Air 66N under the heading "Food." It's going to even be there. Consider the experience of welcoming tourists for the last winter in cooperation with the Super Break Tour and the importance of international flights. The experience from the last winter shows conclusively that this is indeed possible and that there is real interest in visiting North and East without a stop on the southwest corner. There are, however, a number of practitioners that must be solved, to improve the use of flight equipment, to improve access to Cheflavor airports, to increase airports, and airports to Akureyri, and to equal fuel costs between airports. All of this is the work of the Generals to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u9	A respectable president. The good text says: "Don't forget your smallest brother. On the day before yesterday, I visited the individuals who live in Saturday in trailers, tents, and RVs. Now, the cost of being held in court is to be increased by about 40,000, which was in the first head; increased to May to over 80,000 p.m. And now it's due to go to 104,000. Because there are so many tourists on their way to the country. They need the territory in Saturday during their short term time while the people who lived there welcomed me with warmth. I got waffles and pancakes and cream, just name it. But this is the only security they have, a respectable president. They're supposed to let them go away now. They're in the way. Yet, 1st C.E. 76. g. The Constitution that anyone in need should be legally guaranteed the right to assist because of sickness, disability, old age, unemployment, poverty, and any of these factors. We're not doing this. We are forever, we, the lawgiver himself, breaking the Constitution of the Republic of Iceland. We break down in secret and recognize the subjects and despise them, ignoring how many are hurt. I say, let's open our eyes and stop forgetting about our smallest brother and our smallest sister. Put your arms around our people and help them. That's why we're here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u10	V.E.G. President. From May 1, presidents of the government were amazed at the words of the procurators of the labor movement. Prime Minister and secretary of finance have publicly said that they were puzzled by these words. But why did those words fall? Could it be that a stiff conference that the prime minister has said had with the labor movement had little success? Could it be that the interracial conversation that prime minister claims to have with the labor leaders is considered little more than a so - called conversation? That's what I was wondering. Could it be that the audience the head of the labor leader was asking for was something other than talk? A financial program was recently established on the part of this government that disappointed us not only in this room but also in the labor movement. Could it be that lack of policy is the reason why the labor movement's leaders have had quite strong words on May 1? Could it be that the financial program caused such a disappointment? Could it be that the lack of the will to handle insurance, for example, has led to disappointment? Could it be that total lack and really lack of housing policy have led to disappointment? Could it be that lack of willingness to improve the terms of the lowest paid was the reason for strong speech? Could it be that the frustrations about policy as a whole are the basis for such an approach? And could it be that the hostility that midwives evidently feel from a health minister was the reason for such speech? The government has failed to fulfill its promises regarding the development of the government to improve the interests of the public. Not at all. Mr. President. I think it's time for the champagne government to drop the glasses, open the doors of the castle and the windows, and listen to the people.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u11	A respectable president. I've dealt with what's short-term GDPR or General Data Development and I'm going to call the Common Data Protection Protocol. It comes from the European Union and goes into the EEA, and it's one of the biggest if it's not the most advanced progress jumps in personal protection since the Internet came into place, I'm telling you. I've been worried that this case would be late for the council and that we would do it badly. I've mentioned earlier that it is important to be able to respond to and to see Iceland's exports in order to adapt properly. We now have two conferences, i.e. This and two more, until we go on a so-called vacation, which some of us say is a peace of work from the Generals until local elections take place on May 26. Thereafter, there are four meetings until June 1. Thus, if this issue does not come in today and will be approved at the next two meetings next week, we will miss that point on May 25. I've told you before that I was afraid we'd do this very rashly, badly. I'm just afraid that we won't do this in time. Looks like it's already taken place. Then I hear that the delay in the EEA makes it possible that we have a delay until June 1. All right. Then we have four conferences after the district election to set this issue up; a case of over 50 regulations and of one of the most important human rights we have in this country. If it's not a mess, given how many times and how long it's been warned, I don't know what a mess is. [[The president calls.]] This bill has to come in. We need to start showing proper respect for this class.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u12	Mr. President. The bill on the information minister was distributed here yesterday. The subject of the bill is the responsibility of a minister to the General if he is misdisputed, giving misinformation to members of Congress and Parliament, or secret information important to the management of the Council of General. A similar bill has been submitted for the past 25 years from time to time at the General Assembly and never passed through. Given the cause, the matter is now presented again as part of strengthening the Senate and the follow-up role of the Council with the Commission. The basic premise of democracy is that representatives of the U.S. government have the proper information to base their decision making on. Mistellings can easily lead to a decision that leads to bad consequences, and lack of information can obviously lead to confidentiality between Congress and Ministers. One of the evidence given by the World Council of Churches was that the Council had failed to fulfill its role by the executives of the European Commission in a powerful way for banking failure. In harmony with this, a Senate committee addressed the report. Increasing the independence of the council from the Commission, including the Council, was emphasized. suggested that there be a change in the law of the Minister's Responsibilities. The bill that was distributed yesterday, concerning an information minister, suggests that a minister's responsibilities may arise if he provides false and misleading information to the Council and if he conceals information that is relevant to the management of a case at the General Assembly. The key element of informed discussion is accurate and clear information. To emphasize the importance of the information-related minister to the General Assembly, the bill is suggested to violate its laws against the general conditions of the laws on the Minister's Qualification. I would like to represent the movers, who are members of all the government groups, to encourage the president to establish the matter as soon as possible. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u13	Mr. President. This is clear from the talks of the labor force presidents on May 1. That late the winter is hard for us to talk about. It is a concern in view of the fine results that have been achieved by the growth of power in recent years that in spite of a stiff conference between the labour markets in the winter, there is a great war in the labour markets. She has not been able to assure the labour market partners, especially labor leaders, that its policy is to find real solutions to the country's ideals for the public. It follows that in government policy, there are no goals in reducing the cost of growth in our country. Although we have one of the highest interest levels in Western sex, it is not ambitious or intent of the government to carry on this vital task. There is also no realistic goal on how we manage to reduce food prices here. These two things are about. Half the house spending basket. This is what makes home the most important thing to make sure that it is the best way to buy. I think of the statements made by the leaders of the labor movement that turn to political matters. I can't believe that during the winter, strike arguments are to be used to bring up political priorities for the labor movement, since work debates are to be fought about purchases and terms, not political priorities. In fact, it is very important to bear in mind the role of the council and to ask ourselves: " What political agency is elected of the labor movement by the 101.71 percent of its members, although certainly their viewpoint in these matters is of utmost importance, to put the chair before the door on priorities in welfare, education, and housing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u14	A respectable president. The senator's work may appear in various ways. On the other day, on May 1, I was able to participate in the campaign conducted by young officers in East Street, where ten - hour discussions were given to Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, which was held here in that chair 20 years ago. Ten hours. Have you heard more talk here in two minutes in this chair than you heard in ten hours? It was freezing down there on East Street, and it didn't go through any corn. Just as I imagine it was sometimes cold and lonely for Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir to stand in her fight. But here she stood 20 years ago and talked for ten hours about housing and tried to help the Senate see the need for social resources on this market. She spoke for deaf ears. Socialism was then in smaller parts here as long as more people of the country actually agree with such views. She could not save the social housing system. The consequences are obvious to us. The wealthy purchased largely their homes after a crash, and they have the perfect ability to rent their rent, as the examples prove. This is yet another example of the privatization of our welfare. Above the head is considered not self - righteous human rights in this country, as is common in civilized lands. Instead, tenants are considered to be a fishing stock with unslocated fishing. A respectable president. If a Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir had been listened to back then, there would now be 12,000 more members of the social market than there is. A respectable president. It matters who's in charge.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u15	Mr. President. On May 1, some seem to have been influenced by the comments made by the leaders of the labor movement, but perhaps even more encouraging, there are raises in pay from the head of various companies who were formerly under the advice of some who are now under the control of the companies. Then I'm talking even. of Isvia, the State Radio, National Civilization, and Landsnet Former secretary of finance, Benedikt Jóhannesson, issued a recommendation to these governments not to go to a pay session for this director when an increase came from the Council of Mensaves. We are standing here just a few months after the heavy pay raise of the head of Harpa, for example. up to 20% of the decision to reduce the minimum remuneration of the workers working there is expected to be highly positive or otherwise. I don't think that's a very good way to get into my dress interview. You wonder what changed. The director of Istavia spoke of these conditions as a special concern just after his own rise of 400,000 dollars. per month. In my mind, there are two possible explanations. Either all these governments adopted their own unique decisions at the same time to ignore the recommendations made by a former financial minister, of course they are permitted to do since they are independent governments, or to the current financial minister, the Supreme Minister. Bjarni Benediktsson, has drawn this recommendation back and decided that the pay line for government executives is just the best case. I don't know who it is. In fact, I have no basis for predicting it. But I wonder, who can benefit from creating this problem here and now because I believe that there is no pay shortage in Iceland. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u16	Mr. President. In the first three months of the year, more than 480,000 tourists arrived in the country. There are more tourists than there were in 2010. I've talked about flying and a lot of airplanes and what's happening. Last Tuesday, the morning newspaper featured a front page report on the Icelandic airlines, Theow Air and Iclelands, planning to expand their fleet dramatically within the next few years so that within a few years, there will be a total of 130 to148 aircraft on Icelandic clearance. These are amazing numbers. This is a huge project, how people will deal with environmental, social, and economic impacts from such a flight and how tourism will tackle it and we will be united here. I believe this is one of the biggest projects in Iceland in recent years and decades. If these predictions come true and what follows, we are talking about a tremendous impact on all aspects of Icelandic society, and we will not forget the social effects in this context. Maybe we've watched the environmental effects more. Since then, we have been looking at the economic effects recently through the budget and budgets and such factors. But the social impact is vast. I would like to encourage the Senate to pay attention to these matters. A policy plan that needs to be started in a way that we have not seen before in the country in order to cope with the growth ahead. It is important that we take the initiative in this big and big matter, but not this good old thing, which has always been in Iceland, to be always dealing with things afterwards. In this way, the economy has been and the commercial market and the rest over the years. Now we need to take the initiative and deal with the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u17	V.E.G. President. I'm here to discuss the terms of the government, the values and the roles of the financial council and its opinions. If we discuss the terms of government funds in the context of economic policy development, the plans include the implementation of financial policy, building on it, and then, as such, they create income and expenditures, which are fundamental to local budgets. In this context of government policy, we have not really tried because we have not yet been able to close this cycle. It is important that the setting, the cycle created by government law, is designed to produce discipline. Not only in government financial matters but in all economic regimes, as required by the civil law. Now, financial advisers have published their opinions on an existing budget program for 2019-22023 and have already considered an open meeting with a financial committee. They've already paid the opinion each time of their lives on a consistent course. Here I would like to say that the equipment established at the time in the government laws on government finance has proved its value to a degree by its legal role in financial planning and the availability of government policies and plans for government finance. Tips presented in the opinion of the Council are useful not only for councils and Senate committees but also for the media, institutions, and others involved in economic and economic discussions. I feel that the discussion, from previously controlled sources, is becoming more rapid and more focused on the main points, and this has, in this respect, puts it on a professional level and supports the aim of establishing a firmness in government and economic management.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u18	A respectable president. I want to thank you in the beginning. A health minister for agreeing to participate in the discussion these days. There's still a Cascade of midwives in an unsolved knot. Icelandic midwives are not much of a class. There's 280 associates in Iceland's midwives. New intervention is slow, usually completes ten nurses every year, receiving privileges as midwives, and then has completed six years of university education. Nowhere in the North have midwives advanced their studies, as extensive as their knowledge of health. Only four of the ten midwives who have completed their studies have generally paid off to serve in a land hospital that must be of special concern. Some choose a field of activity in other areas of the health system, such as those found in national and health - care institutions, and this is positive and essential. Iceland's Vigilant Brothers are getting old. More than half of the group are over 50. During a torn shift, the work takes toll, confirming many reports that will not go back. Furthermore, experience shows that as many as 20% of employees do not return to work at work after being agitated as this. In addition, midwives who have three - fold shifts in full - time service may have to do with the breaking of vital provisions for resttime. They're broken by law. While it is true that only three years have passed since they went into a ten - week strike that still exists in them, most girls are probably more given and loved than they are. They did their job according to a strike, but they were denied a salary. They're not going to strike this time, but they're going to tell the truth. They realize that a strike is an unremarkable tool in their hands as they are made to ensure emergency care. According to them, design is more often, but not because of the human condition, that there is a real emergency between one day and another. A respectable president. The summer has come, and one of the most exciting times of the year is at birth. More than 2,000 children are expected to be born on the land for the summer. We had only a tiny taste of butter that we could have had when a few days of home service in midwives fell into place. In time, bone mediated by the highest power was achieved. Ministers of the agreement on this important service performed in action. It would be peaceful to hear a minister's opinion of the agreement achieved, whether he will be equal to other health groups where health insurance has made similar contracts. The midwives do not know their smoking counsel, this old class that has lived with the nation through thick and sweet, at all times. The midwife, whether living in a town, would always come from the remote beach or into the valleys of this purest female class of society. There's no man there. Is the explanation perhaps found in that fact? We're still living it, top dog. The minister and sexual sister of the midwives, that we still have confirmation that the discrimination we see is a result of systematic gender discrimination? It is a real challenge to experience this tragic injustice when compared to those in the college community. Would a change of name be a factor in their changing their name, calling themselves obstetrics, or obstetrics? In view of my circumstances, I allow myself to ask the highest question. Ministers on how negotiations actually exist, what message and commission of the government have to end this dispute, and whether the Minister does not consider the issue to be so serious that there is reason to step in and take part in the solution and sooner. Tells you the highest. Does a minister really not have room to raise the ideals of this particular and important group of women in health care and to correct in accordance with other academic classes, with a similar study? A respectable president. A few years ago, Icelanders chose the most beautiful word in the English language. It was now a midwife. This reveals much about the attitude that the people have in this regard. They were also the beautiful promises made by the government in their covenant to take progressive steps to eliminate sexual rewards, to make the difference more clear. How much longer will it be until the sunny day? A Mass in the spring is today, for information. [[The president calls.]] Was it just a beauty? A respectable president. The letter that midwives received yesterday was not very beautiful. Now I'm challenging the highest. Minister to lie down on the rivers, not to betray a midwives. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u19	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Guðjón of Brjánsson for bringing up a matter on the ideal midwives. As noted by the proponents, midwives believe that there are indiscriminate conditions and have dozens of midwives laid off jobs at a land hospital during a crisis. Evidently, midwives feel that their education is not paid for the price, and they now seek harmony with other university classes that have as much behind them. A seminar also wishes that the flight of midwives from work will be considered in particular in this special discussion. First, I want to say that I support midwives in my struggle. They are an important class that has added to itself special education and experience that society truly needs. It is unacceptable that such a long deal began to be negotiated with midwives, which, in reality, show concern that midwives at the Land Hospital quit their jobs. Hv. The advocate specifically asked about some of the factors related to the ideal midwives. First, the real situation of negotiations was asked. It's to say that I don't have any direct access to these talks in which they hear under the Ministry of Economics, but I've still used my efforts to resolve the situation. Friday, I was used to make deals with independent, active midwives in home service. It was successful, but under the authority of the Ministry of Health, these contracts are under contracts. I will continue to apply myself as I can, I will use myself through the Land Hospital of ◯ University hospitals, through the minister of finance and prime minister, as well as by conversation with midwives. We all thought that a solution was in sight when new demands came to the table at our latest negotiations. The next meeting will be held on Monday morning, May 7th, and there I really hope that contracts will be reached. Hv. Second, a member of the council asks what message and commission the state has to make a decision in the dispute and whether the minister of the matter is not considered so serious at this stage that there is reason for entering, as he puts it. Therefore, according to my information, the approach to entering the cognition is not on schedule, i.e. The contract board of the state is fully authorized to negotiate within the range of the current pay policy. However, it is my position that once the knot has become so hard that it actually bears witness, we need to think outside the box. Hv. Third, a senator asks what room I consider to raise the ideals of this particular and important group of women in health care. So it is to say that by the weekend, contracts, as we have previously agreed, were reached by independent midwives who operate at home with new mothers. On my part, it was recognized that the contract would require more money. As a result of the increase in funding, treaties were reached between midwives and Iceland's Medical Insurance. The parties also agreed to make certain changes in order to strengthen the ministry without increasing its scope. So it is certainly my opinion that there is room for an ideal midwives to be raised, as it were. A senator asks. Clearly, we have a lot of design problems in our health system. This is not limited to the class of midwives. The challenge is to resolve. When it comes to ideal healthcare professionals, it is not only agreements that are relevant but also work conditions, stress, potential for progress, etc. As a result, I have a chance to use myself through the hospital and other health institutions. I have and will continue to do this, both to raise the best midwives but also to other women's health - care groups. The current budget of the World Health Organization for the Council also highlights the general design of the medical profession. That's where even the two of them come from. To emphasize the increase in the number of qualified health professionals who have a good work environment and a profession, targeted multidisciplinary teamwork, potential for development and participation in knowledge development and scientific work. All of these are designed to prevent the flight of health care professionals from working. I am confident that the steps I take to solve the problem of design in my health - care system are correct. For women in health care especially, I agree completely with the advocates of speech. What a joy it is to improve the quality of women's classes, and what a joy it is if, in time, a parapolitic agreement is formed! Government responsibility in these matters is great, but other things, of course, need to be done. The labor movement needs to be fought with us as well as with our professional life, and it needs to create an arrangement for correcting the interests of large groups of women who maintain an Icelandic society. There have been ongoing problems with large healthcare professionals, e.g. and especially for nurses. It is of great concern that such flights are a major problem in large women's classes. Clearly, we need to improve the quality of these classes so that the work environment is desirable. In my opinion, the political will to take a step toward real improvement is required for the women's classes involved. An apocalyptic doesn't have to wonder if that political will is present with me. We also need to take note that people, especially young people, are increasingly concerned with the high load of work that has been marked by an Icelandic labour market and want to set priorities for their family and free time that is good. Modern technology should also be a factor in reducing work loads. The government must be alert to these changes and support managers to open up new opportunities and changed practices. If we do not, we will lose precious health care professionals for other jobs. Finally, I'd like to say that it is my hope that the jaws of midwives will quickly resolve. It is not only important for the security of birth services in the country; it is also important that governments send the message that jobs of big and important women's classes, such as midwives, are appreciated. These classes are weighted in Icelandic society and should be recognized as such. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u20	Mr. President. Thank you. A member of the council for this fine discussion, as well as the highest. Minister. Most of us here have described one way or another the support of a midwives'struggle. Most of us realize that the situation is serious. Often we have heard that certain classes cannot be met, and swimming is said to be too crowded. That's not what we're talking about. The requirements set are not enormously high. Is the problem, then, with a female class? Lous of light have been shocked to avoid working overtime. The next meeting in the fight is not until four days, and the crisis is said to arise. Six years of university study should ensure adequate, worthy progress. Motherhood is important and affects many people. In the community, prominent positions are often spoken of. The positions of the men who use money are often referred to as positions of influence. Motherhood is also a prominent place. It's working. Being a midwife has a powerful effect.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u21	A respectable president. I appreciate your need for this discussion. A battle that drags on and goes into such a knot, as this dispute seems to be in part, is always sad; lacks trust between parties, and does not bring much good. So I think it's important, like the highest. A minister came on, looked outside the box, and tried to find an acceptable solution as soon as possible. The midwives are one of the department groups that always work out their ideals, are always there, and show up when it needs to be done. We know this from patrol groups, such as police, firemen and ambulances and other good classes, who also live under increased pressure. The pressures of midwives are increasing, the birthplaces have decreased, the emergency hospital has increased by 65% since 2016, the hypertension is increasing, and many of these are increasing, so we need to respond and respect it in midwives. It is also important to introduce the position regarding midwives' education, to encourage others to educate themselves to this important work. They will need to consider why they do 80% of their work without pay, specializing themselves as nurses during the study in order to become midwives. I'd also like to introduce it here at the end that it is very important, to improve the quality of the midwives and to allow them to develop their field of work and the services that they best provide, that they have the freedom to run the business of services; I'll name home-weapon midwives, midwives on private health care, home-services etc. I think midwives are best designed to develop this service in the best way and to get the best out of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u22	President. An interesting summary of the impact factors behind the pay of both sexes is provided in the report by the Department of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities on the status of women in the labour market submitted to the General Assembly of 145. It speaks of sexual study and employment, that women are more likely to do part - time jobs, they take longer maternity, rather disappear from a labour market to handle unsalaried care jobs, at home duties may reduce their ability to perform paid jobs. These factors are described as invisible obstacles that restrain women from taking on greater responsibility and authority. More responsibility and power are expected to result in higher pay. Is the answer to the pay of the sex to direct women toward a different kind of study or less time with their children and more time in a workforce? It could be reasoned that the work that many women find attracted to, work related to health, well - being, and education is just the most important work in the community. If those jobs were appreciated and were important, perhaps more men would be drawn to them. What Is More Precious Than Life? Where can you find more responsibility than caring for women who are giving birth to a new life in the world and then accepting these valuable, protecting, raising, and education? What a weighty responsibility this is! Do women need to be presidents of a business to get a decent salary? Like there's something more important than being a midwife? What does this tell us about the society we have created? Majestic women are absolutely essential in society, and we are to pay them in accordance with this. President. Finally, I suggest that we adopt our new thinking and legal market to the needs of people, not people to the needs of the workforce.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u23	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the advisor, huh? paritaprevir The Guðjón of the S. son of Brjánsson, for this discussion of the optimal midwives and the highest. Minister of Health, Spígi Svavarsdóttir, for opposing this matter. I'll just admit, in the middle of a conflict like this, and I've drawn between the parties, that I find it difficult in the middle of the gangs and the dress business to discuss it here. This does not change, however, as we have seen in this discussion that it is everyone's will that it succeeds. The importance of the midwives'work is undisputed, as well as how important it is to negotiate. I'd like to say that I have full tolerance for the view that a class of midwives enjoys equal and fair according to school length and pay for other classes. I agree with the highest degree. Ministers, it is urgent to raise the ideal midwives, as well as other women's groups. The political will is there, I believe, with everyone in the field and who is participating in this discussion. The situation of the agreement with midwives does not diminish the fact of the highest degree. The government wants to continue working to reduce and eliminate sexual pay. V.E.G. A government has indeed put the health system at a rate. Both were clearly presented in a government covenant. The priority was already confirmed in 2018's budgets and with increased health expenditures in the five - year financial program currently under discussion at the council. I trust negotiations to assess the situation properly and to achieve the agreements on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u24	A respectable president. I appreciate the gift of speech. paritaprevir The Guðjón who Brjánsson for this special discussion and the highest. Minister of health for being here with us today and answering. I'm going to be getting a little bit different. I'm going to approach her on the human notes that find out where we were without midwives. How many people in Iceland have been given their mother's hands before the midwife's hands met? Just as soon as we get into the world, these hands, the midwives' hands, who arrest us. As a mother, I'm not used to talking about me personally. I have four children. It takes a lot of time for us to get our children into the world and receive our gems, but it does not change the fact that all the time while giving birth to our children is beside us with a midwife who supports us, who speaks beautifully to us, who always encourages us and tells us that this is just about to be done. You're very, very, very busy. Why do we feel so negative about midwives as to supporting them and granting them their rights? The coldest greetings were so intense. The secretary of finance sent them yesterday, where he said they should do so well in overwork because there was another law against law. I say, "We will make midwives, and will honor them by respecting their works, for without them we would be in serious trouble."
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u25	Mr. President. I'd like to start by thanking the adulation for turning the lights on to a chandelier's battle and, especially, the votes. Yet, I would like to extend the discussion a little further and discuss national differences to improve the interests of the women class. What they stand in today's midwives'battle is a sad reflection of the years when education and the work of women are limited to men's education and occupations. In many other women's classes, midwifes have the common connotation that jobs are primarily in the state and rural areas. It is therefore the responsibility of the government to ensure that the remuneration is in line with what goes on and happens at the labour market in other comparable classes. No one is surprised that one of the reasons that governments have long drawn their feet from fixing the salary of these classes is that these are large groups, and they will cost. Correction of the terms will cost you dearly. But what will it cost society to deal with this now and wait longer? What will it cost to continue on the same bad path with the related elimination of educated people from the health and education system? V.E.G. A minister spoke of her interest in setting the ideals of women's classes in the foregrounds. That's good. It is obvious, then, that women's professions do not have any physical laws. As a result, the good news is that we can change this. However, we do not change this by putting wastet patches on the wounds when certain women's groups or groups are bleeding out. I'm the highest. Minister to agree with Congress on national agreements to improve the interests of women's classes. To fix these terms and stop wearing patches on individual wounds, we need action and political will. I'm asking the highest. Minister: Does the government have the Left Green Will?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u26	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Guðjón who Brjánsson for this vital discussion by Brunson. What, though, does a world of Congress think? What's the bottom line? Healthcare Minister on the following facts: In 2015, after a strong negotiation, midwives were forced to go to a strike to achieve their reward correction that would be in accordance with education. Because of the need for a midwives'work, they were required for safety reasons in the strike. However, the midwives forced to work in the middle of a strike received no thanks for, no, but the employer, the State, refused to pay them in the strike. The midwives fought, they had to do their business, but the kingdom refused to pay them. They eventually needed to seek justice from a court of justice, which, in any case, well spoken of in favor of midwives, should be paid by the State for their lovers' work. But that was not the end of the case. No, the government so appealed the court three years later, but it has not yet been paid. The government of the United States made a decision to avoid paying them wages. The strike was completed by law. Thus, the right to strike was taken from this group, and the sentence was rendered. Today, contracts have been free for about seven months. The midwives have quit. They have said that they want the longest law to avoid a strike. The third ten have quit jobs, but they are even told that they can't be sure that they will be able to complete their jobs at the end of their resignations. Because they are such an essential part of our health. Once again, such midwives receive cold greetings from the government with reference to this crisis, the reference to the government law, when they are also forbidden to refuse overtime. They can't go to strike, they can't get paid for a strike, they can't quit their jobs, they can't say no overtime. [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. How does the United Nations feel about this attitude? What's the bottom line? Health Minister on this behavior?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u27	A respectable president. I would like to thank the advocate for this important discussion of the amazing situation of midwives. You do not understand how it is possible that a class as important as a class that is as well - meaning in society as midwives would have to face such a tough struggle for months. Icelanders now reached the first quarter of this year's year to crawl over 350 of yours. ... population. Each of us has a history of positive dealings with a midwife, the way a midwife has helped us, has saved our lives, or has saved us all. All these people want midwives to be corrected by their husbands. This is evident from all the discussions in the hall and in the community. I think the fear of those who hold the government's checkbook is that other unions will be running later, and there'll be some dolphin running and there'll be no reason for that. We all have an understanding of the correction that is necessary, much more than the pay manager of the estates or others who receive a higher salary. As we understand the need for correction, I don't think we understand that correction is fixed for weeks in some administrative complication and that the minister responsible for the health - care system and has described the full will to improve the quality of the midwives has not directed access to negotiations with them, but is another minister who somehow has another view of this matter. I'm sorry, we're not here to talk to the highest level. A financial minister who directs the government agreement board, that is a system that we may need to change. [[The president calls.]] But I hope he's listening. I hope the contract board is listening because the message is clear: [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u28	Mr. President. More than two years ago, midwives went into a strike, as we've seen here, because of a poor dresser. Laws were passed on to strike, and it ended up in a judgment. The story did not end there, as it is tragic that midwives have not yet received wages from the State for lovers of work in the proposed strike. That is amazing, would we accept it? The height may be up to a few hundred thousand dollars per midwife. The midwives took the case before and won it, but the State decided to appeal to that conclusion, and so we sit. Little wonder, then, that the profession is exhausted and is under test for the endurance of midwives. In a local hospital, the situation has become heated, both in the security of patients and in the long - suffering midwives. Much of them have quit their jobs and will leave behind a large gap in their ranks. The national midwives are nearly 280, but more than half of them are over 50 years old and realize that innovation is needed. It is not acceptable for nurses to start studying the article, since it reduces many of them in pay after school. Where are the marvelous promises of the government for this kind of pay policy? Within BHM, you have a midwives of more than 30 yards. K. under the average databases but with the longest study of work rights. The closest society to them is the veterinary union, an entire 70 - year - old. K. in the foundations of these classes, and in their midwives. Mr. President. I suggest that the government sees its own worth in sheathing the swords, dropping state cases on midwives and paying them for lovers' jobs during the 2015 strike. More important, walk to the counter, correct the ideal midwives, and show the respect they deserve, the oldest women class of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u29	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Guðjón - fearing son of Brjánsson for bringing this matter to the attention, perhaps primarily to give us the opportunity to discuss the important class of midwives. I think there'll be a very late fight here at the Senate Hall, but in view of the Supreme Court. A minister said exactly that we had to think outside the box, I think it's especially our chance here. Then I'd like to think about the challenge of a midwives who is much. How is it that when a midwife with two degrees of college, six years of college on her back, maybe decades of hard work, taking care of a pregnant woman she wants to write to, this fine midwife needs to take the witness over to the next room and talk to a teenage doctor to have him write up on the certificate? If you have to write a prescription for a minor medication, it will do the same. What's that all about? Is this an example of something in which we should think outside the box? The midwives, of course, are to have a salary in line with their education and responsibilities. Is this perhaps one of the things we should watch? Or securing your freedom of choice. Now that we have just considered our home ministry, a vital part of the service of midwives and the service of pregnant women and of feeding women, we now have an excellent share in the ministry of midwives. There's so much opportunity to increase innovation, so technology can be used. I personally have experience in midwives'experience because I have a mother who is a midwife and is able to contact someone through the phone or communication media is both a practical and a good solution. I think we should think that way. I think we have quite a chance to think outside the box if we allow these fertile, intelligent classes to shape our ministry with us. Of course, she should be paid accordingly. [[The president calls.]] Hv. A senator, a perfunctory person, asked the following: Are we still looking up at a systematic discrimination when it comes to pay between the sexes? I'm afraid the answer to that question is yes, even though we, a respectable president, have done everything in our power, we believe, here in this hall. [[The president calls.]] Then I wondered if there could be any agreements that would encourage this systematic discrimination. [[The president calls.]] How many lawyers, engineers, or male groups are actually paid according to collective agreements? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Excuse me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u30	The president has no objection to thinking outside the box, but he has some objection to talking out loud.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u31	Mr. President. A month ago, 20% of the midwives in the Land Hospital had given up their jobs. These are 30 midwives of the 150 who serve there. The other day, we met with the National Light Marys Association at Pirata, and we reviewed the situation. Among other things, it showed that the largest proportion of midwives is older women - they are quite clearly women's class - and we are losing these more experienced women out of the profession, just as those who have taken their new ones through the ministry. This is the situation. Should we be surprised that midwives are resigning? Ask yourselves. They go to college for four years, add to their education, and reduce their pay. In 2015 they went on a strike to raise their pay as they have a right. What, then, does the government do? Despite the surgeon said that this was not a long - term solution, she imposes a ban on their strike. I'm going to read from the surgeon's letter later. What happens next? They do not get paid for their job in the strike and have to sue to get paid. It is then appealed to the Supreme Court. What kind of shameful behavior is this to midwives? Who Are Accountable? Here's two o'clock. Councilmen who have discussed it today, those who have signed a committee opinion that this law should be approved. Councilmen Vilhjálmur Árnason and Willum Thor Þór Þórsson Thorsson felt that they should agree to pass a law on the strike of a midwives when a surgeon said that there was nothing to be returned. A surgeon even said, by permission of a president: In the long term,... measures that end a strike without negotiation do not solve the health problems of the system. If that is to happen, the government needs to make a definitive statement that negotiations will continue in order to create a permanent health care system. [[The president calls.]] It hasn't been done. [[The president calls.]] It's clear to everyone. A surgeon warned about this. We fought for it, and then we repeatedly referred to it. Those who are now in charge of this government, prime minister, finance minister, and health - care minister are responsible for this situation and need to resolve this situation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u32	A respectable president. I appreciate the advisor, huh? paritaprevir The Guðjón - child son of Brjánsson, take the initiative to make this discussion and a minister for his introductory decision. An agreement with midwives ran out in February and has been free of agreement ever since. The class of midwives has not been loud when it comes to their terms, and now it is taken up to account for the differences between them and similar classes within the medical system. I don't want to believe that it's because it's a cast of women - or do I have to? In the next two years, a lot of bullshit contracts go out. Until the year 2019 they are high in the second hundred. This requires that we try at the beginning of the work that lies ahead in the negotiation. By permission of the president, the government covenant stated: The government will exert itself for a concerted effort with the labour market partners to ensure that collective agreements will bring real benefits to the employees and the community. A workforce is essential for maintaining stable prices and balance, thereby providing economic conditions for lower interest levels and improved biographies. A respectable president. The extent to which we reach negotiations with midwives is a matter of great importance, with the goal of making peace. These negotiations can break the tone for future bargain negotiations. The midwives are an extremely important class within the health sector. In effect, it lays the groundwork for the health of any person who is walking into life. We cannot watch after educated and experienced midwives in other and better - paying jobs; jobs that even require a fifth education of lighthearted ones; yet, they are much better paid. Thus, it is important to walk respectfully in the bargaining table of midwives and resolve the knot that appears to be in the first place.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u33	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Guðjón of Brjánsson for starting this discussion and Minister for being here to answer. It is a little strange with midwives that they must not go to a strike, and they are forbidden to refuse overtime; considering a job market; and, of course, it is nothing more than violence. There is another strange thing in this case, i.e. that midwives are learning, but they don't get paid. If we put their wages in context of what we receive here as members of Congress and what we are doing: We are struggling to feed laws, good laws, and bad laws, which are taking life. They make sure that infant death in Iceland is at least based. What is your gratitude? They are thanked for their specialized training by not receiving a salary that is acceptable to them. There is something else that we often forget, but it is that very short since we were in the roughhouses. Not long ago my mother lived in the northernmost settlements of her country, on the beach, where there was much infant mortality because there was no cure or midwives and people just had to be rescued. Now that we have midwives, we should show them the respect that they will receive a reward in accordance with their education. As I say, if you can pay us a good salary, then we must be able to pay a fine salary to midwives.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u34	President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Goddess of Brjánsson for bringing up this important matter here. The problem we're dealing with when it comes to selecting midwives, not just midwives, but women's classes in general here, is a complete lack of policy in pay policy for these groups. The government or the government has no policy when it comes to the remuneration of these important groups, and this simply indicates that whether we look to midwives, nurses, nurses, teachers, or teachers, whether they look at preschool teachers or high school teachers, the remunerations are such as Half of those who have been educated in these activities work in another way. Yet there is a lack of staff in all of these articles. This reflects the complete lack of government policy in these groups. That's why it's a pleasure to hear the highest news. Health Ministers agree to support national campaigns to improve the quality of the female class. That's the perfect key in this case. You see, these issues are not to be solved in individual disputes, and these groups will never be satisfied with getting the same amount of pay that is being run over the job market in general, simply because they have been left behind. We find it very clearly in comparison with the International Union that there are only two countries in the European Union and the EEA that pay less for education than Iceland and that mine knows mainly how badly we pay well- educated female classes. That's a fact. We will not solve it differently than taking a collective measure of the problem. Therefore, I encourage the government to join us and to drive contrary to the Senate arrangement for improving the interests of women's classes. This is the way to deal with this problem, including the present problems in a light - minded debate, as well as a number of other large groups of women in the labour market.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u35	A respectable president. I'd like to thank you very much. Ministers for the participation in this fine discussion, as well as a good time. Councilmen for their introductions. Especially would I like to agree with the attitude that was manifested by the midwife's daughter. paritaprevir The spirit of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir, about increased and more responsibilities for midwives, to think outside the box. Let's see that it's not coming into a job market for people who are coming from college with only degrees on their backs. It is usually a well - trained medical staff, nurses who have been working for several years, who are adding to a university education in a midwives'area. A respectable president. The midwives experience a lack of understanding and indifference and a cold manner of speech. The example of the letter they received yesterday, on the day of the fighting people, is evidence of this. The number of midwives, on July 1, continues to drop unchanged. In fact, midwives say that they do not have the same plans for the Land Hospital during the summer. Of course, this is a concern. I'm going to ask the Minister at the end if he doesn't think it's possible, in spite of such unfortunate union policy, to settle and correct the terms of this clean women's class, the cleanest women's classes in Iceland, so it's a waste of time and not going to the end of the bargaining environment. So I'd be happy to direct the minister to use the days ahead well, leading a deal to the dock, so we can celebrate Saturday on the international day of the midwives.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u36	A respectable president. I want to thank you again. A senator for taking the initiative in this discussion and especially for his encouragement in final words. So we all share here, huh? Congress members who have participated in this discussion understand the importance of the work under consideration. However, I would also like to agree with the words that happened by reason. paritaprevir At the end of the discussion, Wazowski son of Víglundsson, we need to be careful that solving this dispute does not solve the major and urgent work assignment, which is a sexual market and a sexual difference in pay. We need to reach and work on the basis of a common understanding that we need to put women in first place. It is a challenge we must face, but we must also realize that the present issue regarding midwives'ideals does not tolerate that wait but needs to be solved in itself. Hv. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir mentioned factors that pertain to the change in pharmaceutical law. I agree with that. When we talk about thinking outside the box, we need to think about both small and small; we need to think about how we can do things, in our legislation; and in our implementation, we will show that we trust and respect this important class. Finally, I'd like to say that it is extremely important to reach a conclusion in this particular matter. The situation is already serious in the Hospital and becomes more serious each day. That's the situation. We can reach conclusions in this position, and we should. I will do my part so that it may be done. Of course, I would be especially happy if it could happen on Saturday, on a global day of midwives. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u37	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a proposal for Congress resolution on the recording of a uniform index price. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Karen Á. Vignisdóttir from the Federal Bank of Iceland and Heiðrún Erika Guðmundsdóttir of Iceland. In addition, the Commission received reviews from the National Association of Iceland, the National Institutes of Economic Affairs, Iceland's Habitat and the Federal Bank of Iceland. The proposal is reimbursed. It also came up with a press conference on the 146th legislature and then received reviews from the same sources. The proposal states that an employee will be appointed to investigate its benefits and weaknesses to aim for inflation and insurance insurance for the consistent index of consumer prices instead of the indexes of consumer prices. During the analysis work, consider how inland's main business countries, in terms of infection with inflation, and how the change would affect remuneration, loan rates, and interest. Substitutions received by the Committee, as well as in the discussions on the topic at the Committee meeting, have shown that the purpose of the synonym was better met so that the staff would not merely be assigned to evaluate the benefits and shortcomings of aiming into the standard index of consumer prices instead of the index price of consumers, ending in both indexes, and aiming for further implementation of it to the basis of a consistent indicator assessment of consumption prices. Rather, it would be more correct for the group to be assigned to evaluate the pros and cons of taking up the index price without housing or to allow loans to choose between different indexes. Therefore, the majority suggest a change in the proposal and heading of the proposal, as well as the above narratives and discussions of meetings, to the government's Government Convention, which states that the government will begin to investigate how to remove real estate prices from the consumption scale. The majority of the work force does not consider it proper to limit the index types to be considered on the basis of the proposal, although the three products mentioned above, the index price of consumption, the uniform index of consumer prices, and the index of consumer prices are most likely to be considered without housing. In addition to these efforts, the Committee has been referred to, with a review of another matter for the Council, namely, the Council. The 246th case, for example, would be to consider the index using only the provision of an index price for the mortgage. In addition to evaluating the benefits and defects of the changed arrangement in calculating insurance insurance commitments, the proposals of the profession include assessing in particular the effects of the changes in remuneration, credit rates, remuneration loans and interest. The majority suggest that this list is maintained but that we add to the results of the proposals made by the Management Board on reevaluation of money policies may have on indexes, insurance and interest policies of the National Bank. According to the above, the greater part suggests that the synopsis proposal will be agreed with the following modification: 1st The suggestions are so expressed: The General concluded to hide a financial and economic minister from appointing a team of experts who assess the benefits and weaknesses of billing insurance insurance insurance for the index price without housing or that a borrower has the choice of which index points to lay the basis for the security of such commitments. In particular, during the analysis work it will be seen how in Iceland's major business countries, in terms of the impact of the change in salary, credit rates, prices-separated loans and interest status, as well as the impact of projections on money reevaluation may have on indicators, prices and interest policies of the Federal Bank. Ministers report to the General Assembly with key results for the end of 2018. 2. The proposal's headline will be: Suggesting a synopsis on the basis of calculating insurance. In advance, the Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson's son is signing this opinion, which he intends to make clear in his speech. Ólafur Ísleifsson, an officer of the Committee, agrees with this. Under way of writing: Óli Björn Kárason, Chairman of Silja Gunnarsdóttir Ginsótttir, Bergis the Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir, The Helgi Hrafn of Gunnarsson, in advance, the daughter of Sverrisdóttir Sveriris and Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson and the G. of Harðardóttir Gurnar. Ísleifsson Icelesssson, an officer of the Committee, is in agreement with the opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u38	V.E.G. President. We're in the middle of a second round. More than half of what you're looking at. The Economic and Business Committee with a revised proposal for the resolution of a uniform index of consumer prices. I'm going to review here some of the key issues of the past. and intended the case for the movers. I will review the changes presented in the discussion and discussion. I want to tell you right at the beginning of this talk that I believe the changes presented here are a great improvement. It's a consideration of what it's about. The Economic and Business Committee has presented the situation in a more reasonable direction in my opinion, to make it very clear. The original headline of the case suggests that it was primarily about taking up as the basis of the calculation of the prices insurance loans of the so-called uniform index price rather than the current consumer price index. There was a basis for harmony, so this was based on the index comparable to the index in other European countries as well as the presence of the natural approach of housing costs, i.e. in the calculation of the index. The original Synod proposal was written, by President's permission: The General concluded to hide the financial and economic secretary to appoint an independent expert team who recognizes the benefits and weaknesses of altering the calculation of inflation and insurance insurance so that on time, a consistent index of consumer prices will be used instead of an index of consumer prices. That was the original purpose. That at the time of analysis, in Iceland's main business countries, in particular the way in which in terms of inflation was measured and the effect of the change on pay, loans, remuneration rates, and interest. The plan was to replace the index of consumer prices and set up a uniform index and assess its benefits and defects before it was completed. Suggested interpretation of the recording of a uniform index, as we have here for discussion and why. A review has been made of a much better prospect for my knowledge, both for a proposal and for a headline, leading to a change in the proposal. The rationalization in the original proposal was to make a change here and aim for the calculation of responsored loan agreements and under the law on growth and insurance and insurance laws. To put these things into context, I'm going to look at the story that Iceland's All-American Association sent to it. It says, by permission of the president: During the past few years, climate development has resulted in increased discussions on the measurement of inflation. As has been true in the years 20036/2007, as in 2014 inflation has continued since 2014, however, this trend has a significant impact on the development of GDP, especially on 40 years of credit. An increase in housing prices is shown by inflation through the Habitat assessment of the calculated rent that measures the cost of its own housing and the exception of the uniform index. As indicated by the Habitat review, however, the recording of housing teams in the consistent index is aimed, allowing the difference between it and the index value of consumers to be negligible. This case was given a special consideration at the 42nd Council of ASI, where the council concluded that the index of consumer prices is insurance, under the terms of growth and insurance insurance, will be calculated below without housing personnel. So it is reasonable for an ASI to have a choice of the indexes that lay the basis for the insurance policy-making agreements and to suggest that the changes planned and stated in the Habitat's reviews give rise to making the changes in the case we are looking at, but to support the case, as well as to the benefits and defects. The common relationship thus agrees that the exact advantage and failure of a borrower to choose which index is fundamentally worthy of commitment, whether it is the index of consumer prices, the uniform consumption index or the index price without housing. ASI supports the part of the proposal, as presented here, the need to assess these advantages and defects rather than simply to limit oneself to the standard consumption index, which is referred to in the Habitat's review. I am now following the Haustabourism of the Habitat, which states that the recording of the housing team is under way in the consistent index, thus culminating the rationale. The Homing Team will be recorded in the indexes committed to work out for Iceland on the basis of the EEA Convention, following the rules and regulations of the indexes and the requirements of the European Order. But the Habitat review also states, with the permission of a president: Iceland's Habitat does not comment on a group's policy-making issues, covering the pros and cons of different standards that could be used for insurance, or that such group contributes to a new presupervisability. Iceland's Office is prepared to inform such a team on the composition of the indicators, if it were the indicators of Iceland's Habitat Office. In this regard, the Habitat supports this professional opinion. Iceland's pay sheet also notes that the consistent index has been calculated from 1995 according to a standard method for all countries of the European Economic Area. The late bank also says, by permission of the President: Of course, while the bank's budget is looking at a variety of other criteria of inflation in the shape of the money policy, including the uniform index of consumer prices, the official market is still looking to various other standards of inflation. I believe it is important that this should be done where the proposal is suggested to get a professional evaluation before starting a change in index, or whether it is suggested that the consumer have this option. Because this, of course, affects many aspects of money and money policy, the growth of money policy committees, and so forth. Therefore, it is important to review the procedure as presented here by this suggestion. The sheet also points out that in the index of consumer prices there is an integrated non-compliance that exists in the consistent index, pointing to the 2016 cash box II, where changing the limits of loan agreements could lead to greater fluctuations in the off-payed loans. I want to confirm that it is important that we consider all of this in terms of money and money policy. It also supports the changes. This is where the Economic and Business Committee proposes. Finally, in confirmation of the positive changes the matter has made, I intend to refer to the opinion of the Human Rights Association that is in favor of the proposal under discussion. To quote their reviews under quote, by permission of the president: To this it is agreed that the World Health Organization of the Houses is in favor of the approval of this proposal and for the minister of finance and economics to be committed to having the benefits and shortcomings of removing the mortgage from the index price for insurance or replacing it with a consistent index of consumer prices. Such analysis could then be useful as a basis for continuing discussions on the subject and a guide in the necessary actions to eliminate the prices of consumer loans. It presents the views of these excellent organizations, the International Habits Association, and has been made clear in their reviews through the later years that insurance should not be on loan agreements but solely on interest rates, for which prices are guaranteed nothing but interest. The economist movement has given evidence of this. Of course, it's just a matter that smells. Up to one point, in all reviews, there is clear support for the suggestion to weigh the benefits and weaknesses of changing indexes here or giving the selection of the index, give the consumers a selection, and emphasis on not attaching one index number as originally started with, i.e. the absolute index of consumer prices. To solve the clips that appear in these reviews, more has been obtained. The Economic and Business Committee proposed changes to capture the main elements of the narratives I covered here. I appreciate that there are significant improvements, and I support the changes in the case and case. A senator and chairman of the case Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson's son made extensive progress in his history. This applies both to the headline of the proposal and to the proposal presented here. The headline then occurs, and I support, according to the Committee's opinion: Suggestion to conservation the assessment of insurance calculations. And more in line with the proposal itself to be spoken, by the president's permission: The General concluded to hide financial and economic secretaryship from appoint groups of experts who assess the benefits and weaknesses of aiming into the insurance insurance insurance of the index price without housing or that borrowers have the choice of the indexes to lay the basis for the security of such commitments. Of course, that's the essence of a matter, and I think it will be very careful with the opinions expressed in the reviews of a strategist and the discussion of the Committee. The purpose is clearly seen by the rendering of the proposal so changed. There is also an addition to this professional evaluation, as a matter of fact. paritaprevir In fact, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson did well, in addition to assessing the impact on pay, credit rates, prices of loans and interest, the group also appreciates the impact of project management's proposal to re-evaluate money policies may have on the index, insurance and interest policies of the World Bank. This is of utmost importance and is greatly improved. At the same time, I appreciate it as being even more in harmony with politics. Governments and reports in a paper with the Parliament's own resolution, with the permission of a president: In the Treaty of the Government, it says on page 10: ▪ The real value in consumer science here is a factor, and in recent years a large rise in it has resulted in a higher rate of borrowing at the head of the most secure loans. The government will start an opinion on how to remove real estate prices from the consumer calculus. Finally, I would like to say that the proposal presented here is in full agreement with the government's will and that the council will accept this proposal and confirm their will, and that such work and food, as suggested by the change. I want to finally thank you. Economic and business committees are very careful at work and the changes made in the situation. I think they're a real improvement, and I think it's done well in every way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u39	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying specifically that here I don't necessarily speak for all Martys. In fact, I could say that I'm absolutely clear that I don't speak for all the Pirata in this matter. There are conflicting opinions on the insurance policy of Pirata as a party and as a council. I think I should be clear in advance. Price insurance is the foundation of this case and the premise that it is presented here. I'm on the Committee Committee members. A financial and business committee, as mentioned earlier, but on a short notice I wanted to make an account of in the pontte. First, I'd like to mention to people who are interested in taking part in Pirata's business, where such matters as these are discussed, that in Pirates is a financial and commercial Obscurial committee that I am still in. We have discussions about economic issues, and all views are welcome. Especially should we stress that we should be able to talk about our concerns without having special knowledge of the subject. It is part of our work to try to link the Party to the grass business. People can send me messages if they're interested in going to such a meeting to discuss insurance or any other economic and commercial policy issue. The suggestion. As noted after the treatment of the case by the Committee on the Management Board, it is about to the highest level. Budget and economic secretary is appointed by a team of experts who assess the benefits and weaknesses of aiming into insurance on this and on the other hand. That's a good thing. As mentioned, I support that suggestion, and I will, of course, vote according to that. However, I feel that it is necessary to deal only with insurance as a phenomenon and with the information this proposal is intended to address. First, I'd like to say about the insurance policy that there's a systematic reason to cancel, or, as I say, prohibit the insurance policy. You might mention, for exampleÓlafur ÓlafsssonMargeirsson excellent articles. There are many things I don't agree with. I'm not entirely convinced of all that language. I think, for example. not that insurance will decline growth. I just can't believe it. I've heard the theory, but I don't think it's convincing. It's as simple as that. On the other hand, I have also heard a theory and explained that insurance will result in increased inflation by creating what we call a ▪feedback place, I don't know how to say it in Icelandic. A respectable president may help me do that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u40	Reim.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u41	Reim. Yeah. In other words, reimburse money back into the economy so that the money in traffic causes inflation. I'm open to the theory. I'm not entirely convinced that it's right. On the other hand, the insurance policy is often referred to as a matter of justice. There's a lot of friends about that. It matters which time we're talking about. It was certainly unjust in my opinion at the time that the consumer had no choice whether the loan was insurmountable or not. I thought it was unfair then, and I think it's unfair today. Today, however, the consumer is in a position to decide whether or not to take credit. I don't feel that there's a certain point like many others, at least a few in this discussion, because people feel that it's right to be angry in this discussion, natural, because of the recent financial history in Iceland. But that does not change people's choice. We may choose to take back an unconvinced loan. I have that kind of loan myself. Of course, more interest is involved. I'm saying, of course, because there's no other option. There's nothing different about it. Of course, higher interest rates are on uncertain loans. They're supposed to say themselves. In advance, there are speculations like those that have come from Ólafur Margeirsson's son. However, today the consumer can choose to take half the risk of inflation. Many recommend it. That's not necessarily the wrong idea. But there is something that the consumer needs to understand. I'm still opposed to ban insurance because I think it would simply rule out people with less income from taking a loan over their heads. I don't think the interest would decrease, certainly not to such an extent that they would go to the point of being so that people of lower income could cope with them. So the other day on Facebook, I was scurried that people of this opinion were somehow watchdogs of the money and against the workers. It's just the other way around. It's only the interests of low - income professionals that get me that way. If I wasn't worried about the interests of low-payers, I wouldn't care if insurance was banned. The reason I don't want to ban it is because I think it's against the interests of low-payers. That's the only reason. Otherwise, all of this could be disloyal to me. I can afford it because I have a good salary and I come from a business, the programming sector, where I can generally go to a good salary if I choose. The only reason I'd be having a small salary as a programmer is if I chose a job that would be because there was less pay in that sector. I could do it, but it would also be a conscious choice. I'm in a privileged position when it comes to this, and I can take unscrupulous loans on ridiculously high interest rates, but there's just no one in that position. Far from it, actually. To say - and now I repeat that I'm not speaking for all the Pirata, it's my own opinion, as we have seen - here are some of the indicators that are being talked about. The suggestion means that rather than allow an index to be rather than an index value of the index price without housing teams, it would more specifically be taken up as the standard index of consumer prices. She's been without housing teams, at least to some extent. But as the review shows, that will change and will likely change now. This was shown in the reviews of the case when the subject was last submitted and came back now. This means that even if we took up a uniform index price, as the original proposal went out, the mortgage would still enter that index. The reason why it is not included in a uniform index is that the data needed from a housing market, especially from southern Europe, if I understand correctly, were absent. As a result, they could not be a proper measure. As this changes and housing teams are better known in Europe, it is nearing that the consistent index of consumer prices will include this point. It will be useless to use the uniform index price if the goal is to remove the mortgage. In contrast, it may well be a good idea to use a uniform index price rather than an index price. It may well be. For some other reason, though. It is appropriate to mention what was presented in the management committee and in the introductions of the data, that when we consider which index will be most appropriate to consumers, the time we are talking about is the most important thing. Today, if only today's period is considered, it would be appropriate for borrowers to use the index price of consumers without housing teams. But that's the situation today. This was the situation before the collapse. But it was not like that just after a crash. It is a valuable estimate that we need to make up for ourselves and to consider, exactly what circumstances are we trying to keep people away from by establishing the legislation so that the index used is best used to consumers. There is no simple answer. Now it is more convenient for them to be without housing teams, now that we are at the top of the economy. Before the collapse of the currently circulating financial filler, it was suitable for consumers, but right after a crash it would have been bad for them. The housekeeping is affecting the inflation as late as possible. If we had been using a uniform index price, relating 2001 or something, this would have benefited consumers until the crash, it would have been worse for consumers for some time. And now it would be better again for consumers once we get to the top of the economy. If your aim is to protect your income, this is a mistake to that goal. But that is not all. Because, as with this fine transition from the Committee, it is a matter of examining all these advantages and particularly giving the track gang the idea that I find interesting, which is giving the consumer a choice. Selection of how the consumer wants to behave the insurance policy, if he chooses to use it. Again: Anyone can take credit today. It just costs more interest, naturally, of course. But being able to choose from a number of indicator numbers - I don't think it's necessarily the wrong idea. That could actually be a really good idea. Depending on individuals, it may vary what is convenient for them. I know for sure that's the case when it comes to insurance, or whether people want to take even loans or loans with the payments or other items. Then it is also worth referring to one idea that has just been introduced in the committee's opinion. That is the idea that came from the Már Wolfgang Mixa, of course, on another matter, to tie a index number to a house prices. That a secure mortgage, or their index, would be confined to housing prices, mortgage numbers. Which, quickly, works much more wisely on me. If a collapse were to occur, the loan would likely develop in the same way as people's property, I would be quick to hold on to it. But on the very brief discussion of that possibility, I have to say that I didn't fully understand the situation, but I'm glad it's there. At least it's not out of the question. I hope that this will raise some questions about the possibility that it might be suitable for some. Not everyone, but some. If people get a choice of these indicator numbers, I think they're inherently good. Yet, there is a problem with what I would like to draw attention to. It's that making more choices, especially this, is not necessarily good for consumer protection. Now I leave the question about how much consumer protection we should have. A General doesn't necessarily know what people want, regardless of what they want. But I feel quite clear that before a collapse, there were a lot of people who didn't understand their loans. I think it is clear that in the interest of a financial loan that was calculated and shown to a customer, inexplicable loan, without taking in the inflation factor - apparently, according to the conversation I hear, people thought that the loan would develop without regard for inflation, which is, of course, a fundamental difference in the nature of securable loans. That's not what I say to blame consumers, but to point out that if there's no clear and strong source of information, people make mistakes without necessarily teaching them themselves. A man is not born with this knowledge, that much is certain. I don't remember learning that at school. In fact, there are some things I don't remember that I learned at school. However, since then there have been judgments on this particular point, and it was judged illegal, rightly, to provide these loans without the inclusion of inflation. If you are taking in securable loans, this is a natural preposterous step. That's ridiculous for the bank. It's ridiculous, in my opinion, and fortunately on the EEA Convention, that the consumer cannot trust the bank to show that in case of inflation, in case the loan is insured. That's a certain minimum requirement, you'd think. It remains that this has been a problem for people and for others on loans. People are just trying to buy an apartment when they borrow these. It is not necessarily a matter of getting involved in some financial philosophy and distinguishing between equal payments and even credit loans and insurance and half-secures and all of this. " What can I pay, and how much do I have to pay? ' And it beats. Well, I guess. To buy an apartment, people do not intend to have any financial experts. Of course, more desirable than that is, it is hardly shallow. That's the concern I have, if there's an enormous selection of an index number, that it's easier to fool consumers in this respect. But as I said, I support the idea. The idea is that I really like it. It's just a consumer protection party that we need to keep in mind in due time. The premise I wanted to specify specifically according to the Committee opinion is that despite what I've been talking about before, I don't think myself really need to get the insurance on a cat's nose. I don't see any special need for that. It is not necessarily a loan form that suits many, or most people. That depends on the individual situation. I don't see it as an independent goal, but I'm wondering if there's some way that there's some kind of cover-up damage to the economy. There I just have my ears open and to hear reasons for it, but I'm still unproved. It's much more important to me that while we have an Icelandic crown, which I think will someday be a gangsta. If we're gonna have a free flow of funds, that's how it's gonna be. Nothing, possibly or probably, that's how it's gonna be. We can give it to ourselves. At such times, consumers, creditors as others, have to grow up in an environment that makes common sense to financial matters, which is expertise in healthy economic systems. Or at least more than a general knowledge of financial matters. In English it is called a financial lock. In short, I'm saying that we have to build financiallocks really tight. It must be part of some kind of cultural attitude toward money and money. It's not simple, it's not easy. There are lots of bore - down political questions in this too. And, as a matter of fact, interesting political questions. But I don't see how we can have a healthy economy in Iceland along with an Icelandic crown and a free flow of capital without any instability in this. While there's going to be instability, I assure you, we have insurance of some kind. If we don't have insurance, we don't have long-term investors, like the mortgage. There's no free food in this. There's no way to give people money. There is always some cost to having an inflatable currency, as we do today. Price insurance is a manifestation of the problem. I'm not particularly into insurance, it's a necessity in my mind. She's confusing things. Among the reasons I didn't want to take credit on my own was because I wanted to be able to count my loans. There is a negative result of insurmountable loans. It's harder, actually impossible to calculate it in the future, because you don't know the inflation in advance. I chose to pay higher interest, including That's why, but also because I could afford it and it's higher, as the people hopefully know. To all of this, I say, I still feel important, despite the opinions I have, that there is information on this. That the analysis is as much as possible and that considering what is best, which index, which might be suitable, up to what level to have the best choice, how to use consumer protection. This is all an important discussion, and it leads all the way straight into the Icelandic crown, as I did earlier. But I just don't think this conversation will leave us at any moment. We cannot simply say that insurance is okay and that it's fine. It's not like that. She's a problem. The insurance is definitely what we call in my business shit mix. I just don't know the more polite words to say about it, more dignified President. But as I say, I'll back it up. And in the last few seconds, I would like to mention that I feel that at the Council, we need to understand our place well. It is noble in nature to want to make the knots so that people will enjoy better fools. That's a noble goal, and I'll take it from there. Still, we cannot afford to fall into the trap of planning to make decisions as to which credit is best for all. Because it simply varies according to people's circumstances. I think our role here is to provide choice, grant freedom, provide information, ensure that the consumer is informed, can make informed decisions, and that the circumstances of the loan market are such that people can buy an apartment if they choose to. But above all, I don't think it's my job to tell people if they're going to take securities or disloyal loans. [[The president calls.]] People are supposed to have choices.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u42	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir The Hrafn Drafni Gunnarsson for his speech on the subject we're discussing, a committee opinion with a modification proposal for a hearing on the recording of a uniform index number, i.e. Change of proposal from the bottom. The Economic and Business Committee. Hv. A member of the committee was here very well aware of his warning on the matter that he supports others. Foreman turns on insurance. I'm gonna ask you what. A senator about banning insurance, putting it on a cat's nose. There have been different viewpoints over the years regarding this blessed insurance policy, the arrangements we have to calculate the growth of mortgages. I agree with what. A senator that there is no reason to ban insurance or to forbid total financial failures. However, as a boy, caution is needed. A senator, including a member of the U.S. entered in in his speech, the pity between those who were present, i.e. The very knowledge that is on the hand of the borrower, which is so different in the person who borrows the loan. It is a policy of consumers to call their interest a proper name, not to talk about insurance, and to tie it to some general and variable prices, but to talk only about growth. Thus we change the arrangement. I want to pray. A senator to respond to this view.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u43	A respectable president. You see, I think there's a why. A senator to the very essence of the matter. Price insurance is just a form of growth, like what? A senator entered his talk earlier. It is simply the kind of interest that takes into consideration a certain index number. It's a big misunderstanding if people think mortgages have just gone mad about the financial collapse of Iceland's financial insurance. That's what happens in general. Because if there is a very serious inflation in the economy, the interest will simply increase beyond control. If so, we would be trying to defuse interest or lower it rather than reduce the value of insurance. As I'm saying, it's just a manifestation of the underlying problem. Whether it's insurance or changing interest, because the bank is in charge, it doesn't matter much. The banks would have just raised the interest if they hadn't borrowed it from the collapse. We could've gotten a lot out of control. If there had been a roof on it? Perhaps at that time it could have been justified by some of the public interest, possibly. Then it's also a bit like trying to legalize things. It just causes a lack of goods. In other words, credit is failing. There's no free food here. The underlying problem cannot be corrected by attacking the manifestation. Price insurance is just one manifestation. Rather, they can choose whether they will pay for interest, for growth, or for insurance. In fact, it can choose to have steady growth, actually for the longest five years, to know in Iceland because the bank isn't ready to make a commitment anymore. People may also have a slightly lower growth rate. You can set it any way you want. But the underlying problem is the risk of making long - term commitments in Icelandic. That risk comes at higher costs in some way. If the consumer has a choice, it's positive in my opinion, but at the same time, increasing choices will further ask the question of consumer protection. That's why I wanted to keep it up. We also need to consider those factors. [[The president calls.]] This is especially true with regard to experience.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u44	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. Hv. A senator brings up the underlying problem. Of course, we can ask ourselves: " What are some of these? We hear less talk about decommissioning insurance when prices are stable. But I'm sure things will get worse if things get bumpy in that area. Hv. In his speech, a candidate introduced the basic theories that have existed, and he reasoned that insurance on the mortgage is unfair and may be a source of instability. It can even lead to a higher interest level. These teachings we know. In addition, insurance has been shown to reduce the impact of environmental management companies. It has been recognized by the late bank himself. That's why I wonder at the same time, and I agree with it. A senator of the fact that all intervention is bad - the latest example is of the housing market where there is simply a shortage - if the government were to intervene in the market now, it would be expected that some who have shelters on it would do other business than rent out. Then some people would land on the street we were originally going to help. I agree with what. Senator, the same would happen with interest. I thought why. A senator suggests that creditors would not trust in determining interest on loans far in time to offer loans far different from inflatable contracts. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u45	A respectable president. I just look at the market, and if there's no one who offers steady growth for longer than five years, whether it's insure or irresponsible. It's just the situation I see. I can't predict whether there is any investment that trusts to put inaccessible interest to 40 years. But I believe that the investor would have them large because of the uncertainty factor into the future. Maybe there's someone in there for that. But I can't see them at markets today. I can't answer that better than that, unfortunately. That insurance may reduce the potential for economic management by the banks is a systematic argument that I'm open to and just think it's worth talking about. There's also something else insurance does, which is bad, it makes the Icelandic economy weird. When the economy is strange according to regulations and business practices in other places, it creates inconsistencies. In this way we are somewhat incompatible with other markets. Some people mean that that's why foreign banks have no interest in coming here. They don't understand our economy. Not at all, because it's so weird. I think that's a very good argument. But this is all a systematic argument, not an argument from the consumer in itself. From the consumer, it's about two things in my mind, my choice and consumer protection. It is the choice and the protection of consumers. Both, I want to make the most of it. Hv. A senator mentioned that we hear less about breaking up insurance on a steady price level. That's exactly what I was trying to do earlier. Then we would like to consider some methods that would be appropriate for consumers today. Right now. But let's just think about how it would have been suitable for consumers right after a crash, and perhaps we are in a strategy now that would have been suitable for a very bad time at a bad time. There is one danger that politicians are trying to find solutions to their underlying problems by attacking their symptoms. As I say, I support the proposal after the treatment of the Committee because I consider all new data and even better review of existing data and all discussions about this are in nature nature of the good and essential because we have a very strange economy.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u46	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson for a lot of interesting talks, what I heard from her. In fact, there was one thing I would have wanted to explain at night. Senator. It seems to be one of the men who run into the cheap solution to claim that the U.S.A. is at the root of all instability. They have faced economists, and the decline, such as. Dr. Ólafur Margeirsson, who has presented some very helpful information on this and others. Because of what? A senator spoke of long - term commitments in Icelandic, and I wondered, " What currency is it? ' A senator who might be suitable here? Possibly a piece of Norwegian, which has dropped by 25% in four years, or a Swedish crown that has dropped by about a quarter of a year. 20% at the same time, possibly Euro, which is now like a korke and goes up and down? You see, there's a big misunderstanding. A senator has to believe that even though the story tells us, something huge is exposed to unsatisfactoryness. I think we're talking about Icelandic economy being unstable. This suggestion and change may be a testimony to the fact that people give up on a particular problem and try to put a little patch on a larger wound. Of course, that's not what we're looking for. We're looking for a solution. I'd like to hear from what I heard. A senator: What currency does he see fit for us here other than the Icelandic crown?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u47	A respectable president. I have read some of the teachings of Ólafur Margeirsson and have been explained. I'm totally open to some of them. As far as I'm concerned, it was some kind of dirt that my dollar is unstable when I disagree with it. Ólafur Margeirsson feels that way. A senator's very nature is not unstable, i.e. If we have a free flow of capital. I just disagree. I believe that if we have an independent money policy and a free flow of capital, a dollar will be unstable. The only way to avoid it is by capitalists or such. We could do that. We could have an Icelandic crown in our lasting oceans. In this way we can find stability with the Icelandic crown. Then it's the cost of sacrifice. It does not seem to be willing, either to these authorities or to have a general practice of having a permanent solution, to be a temporary solution to some extreme situation. But it would work, certainly. What will it cost? That's a little further into the discussion. The truth is, it's rather long since I seriously examined that case, which currency we should record. But from the political landscape, with all the warnings of entry into the European Union, the euro is the most widely called and probably the best. But my discussion with others, e.g. The Canadian dollar isn't over yet. Some have called it a crazy idea. Maybe she is, I'm not sure. I'm also saying that the insurance is here to be as long as we're going to have an Icelandic crown and a free flow of capital.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u48	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this answer. He answered a lot of questions that I did not ask, which in itself was enjoyable. I didn't say the dollar wasn't unstable. I told her that it was not her instability to teach what the situation was, it was an unstable economy, which is entirely different. In fact, I'm very interested in what happened. A senator should be determined that we can throw the crown to a calm without having realized exactly what we would replace. I think it's interesting. It has been observed that the record of euro depends on our walking in the non-national European Union, at least not currently, and that there is not going to be any change. That's why I must reiterate this question: If it's so hard to make a future commitment in an Icelandic crown, what are we going to do? Should we let people take foreign loans? Is that all we should do? Hv. A senator said the insurance policy will never go. It seemed to me a bit pessimistic because it can be taken off by simple legalization. Price insurance is used, last time I knew, in three countries around the world, one of them is in South America, a very troubled country, another is an Asian country, and a third country is somewhere in which war rages. None of these apply here. That's why I'm asking, "Why do we need insurance?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u49	A respectable president. We need a consumer's chance of insurance so that poor people can find a lender who is willing to lend them to 40 years of age. That's why. [[" Lower interest rates? ']] The person can... [[Lower interest?]] With less interest? If you can lower them, they're less interest, but as I said before, I don't believe the theory that destabilizing insurance reduces growth. Maybe it's true, maybe I'm wrong. I just haven't heard convincing evidence of that so far. I'm sorry if I misunderstood. A senator with regard to the crown. To be honest, I don't know what to say. A senator refers to something as being at fault, the words translated in my mind as if to say that the dollar is unstable. I may not think it the same way that I did. Senator, you may. But regardless of what this is teaching, I don't think it's possible to have a regular dollar along the free flow of capital and independent money policy. I also want to point out that in my speech I did not say that we should get rid of the crown, I was just saying that while we had it and the free flow of funds, this problem would be the only long-term solution for consumers - not for the banking system, but for consumers, in order to afford the loan in such an unstable, risky environment. I'm not suggesting we throw the crown to a row. I'm just explaining my position on insurance and then this case, based on the assumption that we're going to stay with the Icelandic crown, based on the assumption that we have free flow of funds. Some of this has to be replaced. I guess that'll end with a free flow of capital. It can be. I hope this answers questions. Senator. At least it was my intention to answer them. I may not understand them well enough, it can be. Then I just apologize and look forward to the next conversation on the same topic.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u50	At the beginning of a meeting this morning, the president planned a vote for him after a lunch break. But the president will see as the day passes if there is any reason to make votes. It will be done by texting with at least 30 minutes in advance.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u51	Mr. President. Icelandic government signed atoll agreement with the European Union, the EU, on agricultural products in the fall of 2015. The contract went into effect on May 1. Now that the contract has taken effect, it is necessary to discuss it in a particular discussion how it will affect Icelandic agricultural production. How well was the contract made, and how does the agreement that Britain, our largest and best market area, will disappear from the contract next year, during the EU discharge? Mr. President. I'm going to follow a few things I believe to show clearly that we did not have enough of a contract for Iceland and how hard the deal is Iceland. First of all, the deal doesn't reflect the size of markets. The EU has an EU market of some 500 million people, while Iceland accounts for about 350,000 people. All general fairness guidelines recommend in agreements such as the taking into account the size of markets. It was, for example. conducted in 1995 agreements on agricultural products by the World Trade Agency. It's basic to make a contract that both parties can cooperate. It's not for this deal. Take, for example, the import of cheeses. The EU will move to Iceland 230 tons of special cheese. And what's the special market in Iceland? Yeah, it's 240 tons. These 240 tons are produced in the Valley of Burgurs and are employed by 25 people. I ask: Is there room for an additional 230 tons from the EU into our small market? The answer is no, of course not. And what do we get in return for Icelanders? We're not getting anything. We don't get to move anything special to the EU, nothing. The EU's biggest transport to Iceland in this contract is 121⁄215% of the market in Iceland, which refers to general cheeses and specials. Our export to the EU is a break-off of the EU market. Everyone sees that there's a terrible imbalance. At the same time, there is an even greater imbalance in customs imports to Iceland, taking place in one stage, but not in four years, such as Iceland's exports to the EU. Under these circumstances, the National Convention Committee of Iceland wrote: This is what we call the highest. Agricultural minister has an opportunity for Icelandic agriculture. That's what I call making a deal. Second, I would like to mention specifically that no assessment of the impact of the contract on domestic agricultural production was made. There's a lot of trouble with this deal. In international negotiation techniques, it is fundamental to have broad and good consultation with stakeholders. The EU had to form regular consultations with its stakeholders in this contract, therefore I have reliable authority. The Icelandic Convention Committee did not know how the contract would affect Icelandic agricultural production when it signed, as well as the consultation with U.S. interest groups in the Convention was of little or no value. That's very reprehensible. Third, the change has taken place after the contract was signed that our largest and best market area, Britain, is leaving the EU and hence the customs agreement. Britain's market is the second largest market in the EU with 66 million people. Perfect uncertainty about the effect it will have on us. You can, for example. For example, consider the thought of a British market - that of our karyvot, a fine or more than 3,600 tons. We don't know what's going to happen to him. At the same time, the loss of thesterling sludge has been about 30 to 35% since the contract was made. These factors play a major role in Iceland's export users in a explain to the United Kingdom and can be clearly said to be a failure. Mr. President. The Tolla Convention on the EU puts domestic farming in a very difficult position. Despite the recommendation of agrienvironmental group, the agreement on the part of the government did not involve counter measures. Farmers are very unhappy with the contract, and they are deeply concerned about it. In view of the above, I'd like to ask the highest. Agricultural Minister: Does he not worry about the impact of the contract on Icelandic agricultural products, such as the leading farmers? Why have there not been objections? What evidence is there that there will be a request for the reinstatement of the contract because of the changed end? And finally, would it be normal to make a deal like this, since it so clearly leaning on one of the treaties, Icelandic agriculture?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u52	A respectable president. I want to thank you. taking the initiative in the discussion taking place here. We have communicated only on this matter in unsubstantiated inquiries that do not allow for a very deep discussion. I'm glad, though, that we're at the point where we're discussing this specifically, even though I'm not involved in the kind of contract. A senator is so deeply sorry that he has been brought to his senses. This is as shown in his case, a contract was made for a long time. The parties started, including on the part of the Icelandic government, not on the initiative of the government, but on the initiative of the Marketing Authorisation Holder and of the products of the dairy industry for the increase of market access to Europe. On September 17, 2015, the government set out on that trip with society, ending up in the process of making this contract. Of course, opinions were different, as is normal when big interests are handled. It took time to finish this deal, three or four years. Because this question was asked if there's any chance of breaking up with him, it's probably because of the changes, as I understood why. A senator. He is now referring to Britain's being under outrun with the European Union. I think I can claim that the British don't even see the end of that conversation, much less the European Union, and much less the Icelanders who don't even sit on the sideline there. We'll be watching what's going on there, but I think it's a little early to predict how we can make such a deal with the British. It's here to ask if I'm not concerned about the impact of the Icelandic agriculture contract. I'd like to mention that, and I think it's okay to be clear, that under this contract, tolls were dropped on more than 340 toll numbers, reduced by 23. Of these 340 numbers, they were carried when 244 numbers had no toll. So it had no effect on that step. On the other hand, the contract paid Iceland to continue these 244 numbers to zero. The remaining 100 numbers are called agricultural products, and the largest groups there are pizzas, pasta, chocolate, pie products, cakes, biscuits, soup, etc. To this extent, the content does not seem to have a major impact on us. But what's happening, and it's happened, is a rapidly growing import of meat. We move, for example. into 2017 3,600◯3,700 tons of bull, pig, and poultry meat, despite the fact that the food is only 778 tons. The country's demand for meat import, e.g. ... ina full toll. It is worth considering, both for us here and for farmers alike. I know that farmers see in this an opportunity to increase their production within the country and even raise prices if this is to be divided. Then, when it is claimed here that no anticipating actions were taken by the State, on the basis of the proposal received by the Minister of Agriculture in 2016, it is wrong. There were eight suggestions in this package. Two of them are fully operational. Three gass are being won and three of them are likely to survive. That is the situation regarding these eight suggestions when it comes to claiming that there were no objections. This is the situation. Not completely finished, it shall be acknowledged, and I will allow myself to claim that they will not all be fulfilled. [[The president calls.]] But I object when it is claimed that nothing had been worked in them. It's simply not right. [[The president calls.]] It is unfortunate if the discussion is taken on such grounds.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u53	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you for saying something, okay? paritaprevir Þórarinsson's son's wife, for starting this discussion. I think it's safe for me to say that all of us want to see some powerful and reliable agriculture in Iceland. We are proud of Icelandic agricultural products, and we all tell stories about how clean and green farming is when we have the opportunity to do so. So it is very important to me that we support the Icelandic agriculture and its construction, but I have to admit that the baiting of customs is by no means the best way to do that. Mr. President. To tell you the truth, I've never fully understood that farmers are not the largest pressure force in Iceland going on in the European Union, leaving as few people as much as the European Union. I made a film in Scotland for a while, and I even met in Scotland. Farmers in the Highlands who were very happy about the very opportunities for innovation and improved use of their country, which the European Union had brought to them by bone pay and by greens. There are few jobs as important to us Icelanders and agriculture as there are extensive parishes. It is important to support agriculture by reevaluing agricultural contracts with the aim of improving farm conditions and ideals, while also ensuring consumers to ensure fair prices and quality. Thus, a reduction in the integration of the production and support of the state and support of a larger proportion of the support for sustainable development of the land is needed. The cohesion stresses strengthening the agricultural environment guarantees the management of farmers and that agricultural management is in a way that sustains, increases farmers' freedom, and results in economic and eco-friendly quality production. But it does not guarantee endless protective belts, it is by supporting farmers directly and in agriculture.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u54	Mr. President. It is clear that in the tax agreement discussed here there is both opportunity and risk. The availability of Icelandic product, scurry, lamb, duty-free into the European Union is inexplicable. Is this particularly important in the case of the Icelandic cow farmer, but more than produced has been exported into the form of a powder when the tollovians have run out with the related loss of income for cow farmers. In the case of lamb, this is important in view of the serious position of sheep farmers to remind you of. If the flocks are not to be greatly reduced, an increased market is needed for meat. But there is also a risk for pig and poultry breeders, for cow farmers and indirectly for sheep farmers as well. It is proper to remind you that cow farmers are in a kind of straitjacket in the present system. The price to pay and pay is set by the Commission. Sometimes it would take years between decisions, but the last total price on milk was changed on January 1, 2017. Large groups of goods are sold under raw medical expenses, so farming products, including specialties, must be sold at higher prices to cover that cost. This system is deeply rooted in a peasant struggle in earlier years. I'm going to direct questions to the minister. Does a minister see that it can be part of the challenges involved in changing the arrangement of the head of the Commission, as arranged in 2016's livestock contracts? What is the political vision of the minister of how to change? Also: What is the political view of the quantity of goods still carrying tolls? 13th. The Treaty on the work conditions of cattle farms from 2016 speaks of agrienvironmental ministers applying for amplification of skiffs and cheeses to reflect changes in prices since they were put on. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u55	Mr. President. This is not a new discussion. Let's start with the consumers. Three years ago, Iceland's Business Council published a brochure entitled What Are Our Habits? It says, by permission of the president: If all households were to be looked to, customs would return about 10 billion dollars to consumers. This year, in the form of a lower price price.◯ And: Achieving toil on all agricultural products would save a family about 80 pounds [80 m]. K. of food expenditures per year That's what matters. These are the consumers. When it comes to farmmakers, let us look at the main reason for the pressures of customs on imported food. A report by the government, led by Geir H. Haardes, is as if I'm not telling you a new discussion. That's where we're going. Let's start with scene four. It is in the sense that this would be one hundred million that was then incarcerated, but it was estimated that 900 million people in form would come back. A treasure would make money out of it. The third factor, consumption control, i.e. that tolls would be used to reduce demand for products considered non-injury or undesirable; there are all kinds of sugar taxes and other ways to go to that product. Number one: protection for domestic agricultural production. Oh, yeah, it's a good thing to look at; to protect domestic agricultural products on all kinds of grounds. All kinds of values are behind them, and looking to them is a serious matter. Especially since such protection has been available, that it is not removed except on grammatical grounds and thus counterimprovements that it does not adversely affect the farm producers. The question is, What can be done? If customs are such an inefficient way, consumers cost so much more than the protection value of agricultural manufacturers, they can get this money in other ways; dropping the tolls, reaching these revenues, returning them to stock plants in form, strengthening them, while the rest would come back to a lower store and a government fund would make money. [[The president calls.]] consumers make money, farmmakers make money, governments, and government funds. [[The president calls.]] We're all willing to go that way. Except customs protection is a little long-term protection. [[The president calls.]] Let us see in my next talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u56	The president asks why. Councilmen respecting deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u57	A respectable president. Here we will discuss the challenges of EU and Iceland's customs contract on agricultural products. The agreement is a fact and is part of the business environment we have created. He meets challenges, and he also has the opportunity for farmers if the situation is handled properly. It is important for the government and lawgiver to have Icelandic agriculture in such a way that this opportunity will be useful. Among the things to take place immediately, there are eight measures defined as counterrequisite measures due to customs agreements. These measures were defined by a broad fishing and agricultural group in 2016. It's like the highest. A minister noted earlier that two of the proposals have been made, three are in progress, and about three have not yet been decided. So I want to encourage the highest. Ministers to speed up the work on these measures, as there is still time, the contracts are not fully implemented until 2021. One of the measures involved is to meet the quality requirements for imported products. I want to break my heart. Minister to go through that work quickly and well. It must be the minimum demand of the Icelandic consumers that the food sold in this country is prepared under the same requirements that are made for food production here. These are the requirements for farm management, for the health of livestock, for sustainable production and carbon footprints in production and on the path to consumers. [[The president calls.]] Another would be a great twin.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u58	A respectable president. I'd like to thank the advert, please. paritaprevir The daughter of the Birgir of Þórarinsson, for bringing up the matter of this matter of interest to farmers and truly to all of us. The EU and Iceland's customs deal went into effect May 1st. He can put the agriculture in a very difficult position. It is shocking to hear without consultations with stakeholders, such as at any given moment. The apocalyptic came in here. I would also like to remind you of the plan of a DG since March. It was the requirement for the government of Iceland and the General to take sides in domestic food production by strengthening the protection of Iceland's customs. The claim is that this contract will be issued on the part of Iceland. So many now were those words. An Icelandic agricultural game. The healthy form of agriculture is very high. The use of antimicrobial antibiotics in Europe is very low in Icelandic agriculture. For example, more than half of the product has been found to be infected with salmonella and a Campylobacter in fresh chicken at food tables in Europe. The Icelandic herd of cows and sheep is largely free of the expensive diseases in Europe and are endemic there. It is something that cannot be sacrificed. Instead, it is the solution to bring in a much greater amount of agricultural products produced by mass production for Europe's giant market by means of antibiotic support. At a time when we talk a lot about reducing pollution in every cell in the community, the products are to be transported all the way down here by contaminating domestic production and taking risks and carrying the diseases that we have blessedly been free of so far.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u59	Mr. President. The situation in Iceland in general in cooperation and cooperation with other countries is now affecting national interests more than ever before, in my opinion. No matter where in the community the subject is, whether the nation's defenses, environment, culture, economics, and commerce are protected by consumers. Every step in international cooperation we've taken, whether at NATO, EFTA, or EES, and in various business and customs agreements we've made, has improved the economy of the country and has increased the well - being of the people of the whole country. In the national community, we Icelanders are not an island. We're part of a team. And we're not only in this, being part of the whole, to benefit from our European neighbors, but also to do our part. We believe that participation in international cooperation brings more benefit to society than isolationism, to those who believe that free and open markets are more at stake for people, for families and consumers, than for obstacles and obstacles, to be given opportunities in international agreements such as those we address here, toll agreements in which customs are being reduced to various relevant needs to Icelandic households. I need someone to tell me twice if a government led by the forward party then, in cooperation with the Independence Party, did not at the time cooperate with and converse with a major interest organization. I assume that this was done, with the natural sense of consultation with farmers as well as consumers. Let us be reminded that one of the largest budgets of Icelandic households after interest costs, of course, is the military cost of the Icelandic crown. Iceland's food jar is worth dozens of percent more than anywhere else in Europe. As a result, lowering the cost of household food is one of the greatest benefits for families, one that all of us should have in mind right now, especially in the face of awkward conversation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u60	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the advisor, huh? paritaprevir Þórarinsson's son's wife, for starting a discussion on this matter and the highest. Minister for the discussion. First, I'd like to mention that the leading farmers have said that this toll deal is the ignorant, inconsistency, and unreasonable. Let's watch, for example. in the UK market, which is our best and easiest market, frozen less and the second largest market in the EU. The best part of this deal, the krysvot, was just thought of in this market. This is now a state of complete uncertainty over Britain's EU resignation. If this deal is not correct, I don't know when it's true. It doesn't take some experts in contracts to see it, everyone must see it. There is the sky between the impact of this contract on Icelandic agriculture and agriculture in the EU. V.E.G. President. The government's financial program allows for farmers to receive a low price each year. The group of farmers, therefore, is the only class in this program while commercial power is increasing everywhere else.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u61	A respectable president. Thank you. the advocate of this discussion. I want to direct them to the point. Birgir Þórarinsson request that he perhaps have further requested that an official investigation be carried out on the customs agreement he made here and how he was processed here at the council. I'd just like to point out that when the General Assembly prepared the livestock contracts in the fall of 2016, it was clear to the farmers and to the entire Congress that it was completely hanging together, i.e. Residual agricultural contracts that were then made for 10 years, and were implemented at the council, and the customs contract discussed here. They responded with counter measures. It was reacting to the big changes that will truly be May 1. These are some of the biggest changes in the labour conditions of the Icelandic agricultural industry that have occurred in recent years. That's how we keep working on it, how we're going to continue to face these big changes. In essence, I am not going to judge this customs contract and how it is built up this time but to look only at how we can continue working with the protection of the Icelandic product, that it will survive this competition. The actions of the Custom Convention and its changing will depend on a time that is extremely difficult to deal with. But I look forward to making the big changes that are now being made to farms too. The fundamental change is to become on the Icelandic market, with this large import right here, as far as possible. Surely the apocalyptic was traced here, and I agree that the unit of products must take place. I can imagine, due to the nature of the changes that have been made on the market, that the slaughterhouse market or the carnivore may have to be united in one company. I see no longer any material evidence to argue that international competition needs to be assured when this big change is made, when we can say that we are looking into this large market as a whole. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u62	Mr. President. Tolar is a time error. Tolar is a time error. Tolar is a time error. I can't really be any clearer, Mr. President. By the way, I'm proselytizing that Icelandic farmers have public support. Tolla, however, is not a good way to do that. It's been a lot of things, and it's one of the first things I taught my students in business at the university. The trade route is bad for farmers and consumers. It increases prices, decreases innovation, and tries to melt the market law, which is extremely difficult to make at a consumer market. Prosperities for agriculture that interfere with both production and normal foreign trade are many condemned to fail. The most reasonable way to support agriculture and spread abroad is by direct payment and green support. The current agricultural system is one of the most expensive things in the world. It's bad for taxpayers, but it's also bad for consumers who pay higher prices and live in less selection. The agricultural system is also bad for farmers, many of whom are financially poor. Systems that serve no one or few are not a good system. So I think we should undergo a radical review of agricultural support systems so that both farmers and consumers will be interests in the foregrounds. We want efficient agriculture and food so that farmers can live at decent markets. We also want systems that serve consumers, but the interests of consumers and farmers are not contrary. We can do better for both of these groups.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u63	A respectable president. Thank you. The advocate, the Birgir of Þórarinsson, of this conversation, rejoices that it is discussed. I'm also glad to hear it. His associate council member and council leader of the Central Party, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, is here in the hall. There are few in here who are more responsible for just the agreed agreement than what. A senator when he was the highest. Minister so I'll witness to him myself in a story on the day of the contract, by permission of a president: ▪ This is a cause for joy for Icelandic consumers who will see instead in reduced food prices and exporters who will undoubtedly take advantage of opportunities in these contracts. It was said of the contracts back then. A respectable president. No matter what we may find here, the international community views customs as something of value. We may feel that it is private and personal, thus approaching the international community. I have always come to mind that at least too little, the current government did not approach these discussions as business agreements for interests. A total of 350,000 people were associated with an alliance of 350 million people, and unfortunately, there was little effort to get involved in this business discussion. I trust it to the highest. Secretary of state and supreme. When it comes to the export of an Icelandic product that is the opposite of what has been brought in here, I'd like to ask the highest level. Minister only on his opinion of the proposals published in a 2016 customs group report, particularly on the work group that distinguishes the state of Icelandic agriculture from potential changes in the international business environment. What's the minister's position on that task force? [[The president calls.]] Is anyone working on it? Is he possibly on the move? Is there a minister to inform us about that?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u64	Mr. President. So I continue with the idea of my first speech, we have these stakeholders, we have farm producers, and so is the advantage of the real cagemakers, i.e. individuals or farmers, not particularly good. We all know this now, that's a little bit more between middlehands that may be the most valuable and perhaps the most important thing in protecting this system exactly as it is. Pirata's policy in this case is that the payment is intended to go directly to farmers, not to go up to some kind of cross-protection against all of this, competitive protection etc., payment should go directly to farmers. Toll protection or toll protection, which increases prices for consumers and only partially returns to the suppliers, is not the right way to do so. If this protection could be taken that is lower than what the customs give and get it elsewhere, take the tolls away, but take this money, and support the agriculture for the same amount, then financial status would be manufacturing in the same place, while consumers would get what is in the form of a lower food prices. The tolls naturally go into government funds. It has been mentioned in the report by the Chairman of the Food Committee, which in the time of Geir H. Haardes - as I said earlier, this is not a new matter - that the income, the customs, would come back. There will be an increasing increase when customs are removed, there will be more business, and it will bring more to government funds than customs do. So everybody's making money out of this except for what I mentioned on customs protection. Though its value is lower in money, it is safer for a long time, safer than it would be if the amount of money was placed in the form of direct support that should then be removed. I'd say it was the only thing that would be lost in all of this, something a little more security, but still it's security within a very narrow system that creates a whole different type of negative impulse to produce the land. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u65	A respectable president. With the toll agreements made with the EU, on agricultural trade, the aim was to establish the two-to-dos and, at the same time, to increase the export opportunities for Icelandic producers. The contract says that it has an opportunity for Icelandic farmers, where commercial markets are limited. In order for that goal to be achieved, the Kingdom must follow through, and nothing can be left to be left in order to have any Icelandic agriculture at all times under reasonable conditions. This has been discussed with the decision to speed up the production of increased salutations for the import of cheese so that it will all be implemented in this year; that the import of cheese will be from 20 tons to 230 tons immediately. It has been suggested that the induction has been made a mistake so that it has not been activated. A respectable president. Thus, when this was approved, it was specifically directed to the secretary of the trade board to access access access to the European Union's internal market for Icelandic dairy products, as this agreement is based on mutual access rights. It hasn't worked out. With the speed of induction of increased cheetahs on cheeses, we are strengthening the one - policy block on these matters without any consideration of commercial dairy products at the same time. It is minimal that this work should be started before the import rate, because it has already been opened in all the years to come. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir speaks of a free and open market that would benefit all of us, whether we are consumers or producers. If all the objectives of the contract are met, then we can agree. Hv. A senator was the minister of agriculture, so he was to create access rights for Icelandic dairy products in the European market. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] What's up with that?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u66	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, the daughter of her daughter, said in his talk that in the nations, we are not an island. I agree with what you're saying. A senator, though, would like to remind him that we are an island. We live here on an island in the Atlantic. The high transport of raw meats will put the health of the Icelandic livestock stocks at risk, but they are blessed by the isolation of an island country with most of the diseases in Europe's farmers at risk with a high level of antibiotics. I don't want to finish this speech without mentioning my special interests in the public defense. How do they deal with this? Then I'm talking about food security, how important it is for a nation living in the middle of the Atlantic Ocean to have powerful food production that has the potential to feed the people. Public defenses are pured out to us that we have the ability to take care of ourselves in terms of food production most of the time in case of disaster. I'd also like to remind you that in Iceland, production conditions are everything other than Europe, and no comparison of the size of production and the cost of all the resources, as I pointed out in my previous speeches, to move this along the way to the harvest. The Farm Group has concluded that our customs contract with the EU since 2015, which went into effect on May 1. ... they'lllet go.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u67	Mr. President. I'd like to warn you about the panic years that are now heard here at the Parliament's Hall when we talk about agricultural matters. Agricultural agriculture does not need terror. We have a great product that's exactly competitive, wherever it comes from. I'd like to warn you, but I'd also like to point out the incredible opportunity involved in this customs contract for the Icelandic agricultural products. This was a mistake regarding the import of specialised species associated with parmesan and other special areas in the European Union. We have the Icelandic lamb, and we are not yet working to obtain geographic meanings in the European Union. This is a huge opportunity for Icelandic lamb, which we all know here in the hall that is one of the best things in the world, that's offensive. There are huge tracts for dairy products, for sheep meat, for pork, for poultry, for cheese, butter, and hot dogs. There are many opportunities to make good use of ourselves and to be rather a chef. We're supposed to advance for the Icelandic agriculture but not always build walls to defend ourselves. That, in my opinion, is wrong. We're going to continue supporting the Icelandic agriculture. We are doing this with agricultural contracts of up to 16 billion a year, indirectly sponsoring, making up about 30 billion each year. And we'd like to strengthen Icelandic agriculture, which must be subject to free markets and competitive policies. I say this without hesitation because we have good experience and good examples, including Ignition. When we reduced vegetables to customs, what did Icelandic vegetarians do? They moved forward. They had 80% of the market. But at the increased import, what happened? They became more involved in Icelandic markets and went up to 90%. This is an example of how Icelandic farmers, and Icelanders, can respond to competition, with more intensive service, even better products, innovation, and innovation in their sectors. There are countless opportunities ahead of us for Icelandic agriculture, and we are more likely to welcome such forward - looking changes, something remarkable, the government of a forwarding group and an independent party in its time. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] All we're supposed to do is back that these changes will come through.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u68	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Agricultural minister for the discussion and for the members of the council here. V.E.G. Agricultural minister discussed the initiative on these contracts. It is true that people applied for access at their time for skis and lamb, thus making this contract available. But things have also changed at that time, and neither does it justify the failure of the contract. V.E.G. The minister discussed counter measures. It's good to hear that he's working on them. But it would also have been fascinating if he had just told us who they are and whether they will be successful. Then, too, we discussed who made the contract at the time. It doesn't matter. The contract was signed by Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, then a agricultural minister, but much has changed since 2015 since the contract was made, it is critical in this discussion. V.E.G. Aggressor has said that the contract is for the benefit of consumers. It also said former agricultural minister, eh? paritaprevir It's a Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter. Very well, then, a noble goal. But is it true that one class, in these cases farmers, should reduce its terms so that others can have it better? Farmers are not a high paying profession that can take on a new billion remuneration. The company wants consumers to be the best. The central category supports agricultural competition, and so do farmers. But the competition must be equal. It's not that deal. The Convention does not take into account the competitiveness of Icelandic agriculture in the European Union. The Convention does not provide European farmers with the same rights in the EU to farmers in the EU. The media wants farmers to do well like others. In view of what has been discussed, it is essential that this contract be declared on the part of Iceland and that the agreement be prepared again. The community has concluded that way. [[The president calls.]] In this case, as many as many others, we must show our determination to make a contract, top-top. Agricultural minister, guided by the collective interests of farmers and consumers. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u69	A respectable president. I also thank you for the discussion that has taken place here. They've been busy in their speeches, so they say. You're right next door. The saying that much has changed since the contract was signed. You're absolutely right. Among other things, there has been a switch in politics, and people may see the world differently than they used to do in the past. I would like to briefly answer the questions that have been addressed to me. Regarding what Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé asked: Yes, I believe it would be a good idea to appoint this group, definitely. Regarding Lilja Rafney's request for a Gaming Committee: I believe there is good reason to go through this price-making system. It is obvious that the experience of this is so evident. Two years is not at all good enough, and it is impossible to put part of a full sector into the clip it has had because of some political paraphernalia that came up there. There have been reports of changes in the basics of Bgreit. That's where the quadrucans were supposed to go. Do you think humans will stop eating skis, even though the British will walk out of the European Union? Simply put, it is the task to negotiate with the British on the continuation of this quality. I have full faith that farmers in Iceland are doing a very good job, in gardening, in milk, in horses, in chickens, in pigs. The challenges we face in sheep are excellent work, and the best way to strengthen this is to promote the support and strength of consumers in cooperation with farmers. There's a lot of ways to do that. I have every reason to believe that, in the course of a reimbursement on the market agreements, people will achieve a great deal of resources and will strengthen the environment for which they will work in the years to come. I have full faith in it, and I expect the suggestions there that the subject will see the day's work on either side of the next year's convention. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u70	V.E.G. President. We'll clean up a second round. of this synonym, which was proposed after a year by several forwardees and is the lowest possible threshold in trying to do something for the land's house that is inflatable. When the proposal came to the fore, it was extremely hairy and ambitious, and the adjustment has been made so that the proposal is Teflon-coated, it does not exactly do anything. I kind of think it's best that her name has been changed, that she's covered her name and number, and that she's put on a new name. Now it's called a proposal for a synopsis on the basis of calculating insurance. The suggestion is that we might as well have challenged the government to walk around a swimming pool to see if she was going to kill her to the toe to check its heat, so it's stuck. The first round. I had one sentence from the paper that follows, and it reads like this, with the permission of a president: The government will start an opinion on how to remove real estate prices from the consumption index. At the time, I pointed out that there is a solution. It is in the forward bill of the Central Party, which appeared at the same time as this proposal and makes this proposal unnecessary. However, it is the dominant form of a lack of ambition. The Economic and Business Committee, which, in turn, leads to the taking and removing this hairy thing here, but the bill of the Central Party is still in the good condition. Committee. I want to use this opportunity to challenge the committee and its chairman, who, in fact, is not in the gym right now, to dress up for a plate and to put it down to 2nd. The bill that was submitted so that we can take it for treatment. One of them. Only a minute ago, it was told by the reverends. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson, is now less discussions about insurance because inflation is low. We're gonna go for a second. Clearly, a senator is not talking to the same people because the people I speak say: "This foundation as it is now costs a fortune. Having this in its present form, or having taken out the housing team, the home in the country was not much more than 50 billion dollars. from March 2017 to March 2018. That's about 500,000 bucks. in each country if we expect 100,000 homes to be borrowed. It is also curious that this latter passage resembles this one. and a previous round. That there's no members of the United States Congress here. They also did not join in the first siege. I remember one VG senator who came up in answer, no, not right, it was an independent senator, and a VG team sat by and did not discuss this matter. So you have to conclude that the representatives of these two categories are not interested in canceling the prices here or making some changes in national insurance, in terms of the welfare of the country. That is an interesting statement, and it should be welcomed. But there is one thing that I've been thinking about now very much because it just so happens that not long ago, three Senates ago or something like that, I can't remember better than we've established that individuals can't borrow money that they don't have money on. It's very sensible, but at the same time, we've been doing it for years, and we're doing it with this suggestion here, that individuals borrow the strongest coin in a world of value. I don't know anybody at least. not in this room, which has income in the debt of the Icelandic crown. I don't think any man in Iceland has income in that coin, so I can't quite understand that a proposal is being made to promote crime in the future. Of course, there must be some way in which they can handle and where they naturally hold those chairs behind me. Of course, people do some dirty things about it. This proposal will not change any created object for the homes of the country. The commission states, with permission of the highest power. President: ▪ In the case of analysis work, particular attention will be given to the use of inflation in the major commercial countries of Iceland, and the impact of the change on salary, credit rates, prices of loans and interest status, as well as the implications of project management on money policy reevaluation may have on indicators, prices and interest policies of the Federal Bank. The first part can be done in half an hour, catching up indicators across Europe. They're up in Haguems on an Excel chart, and all you have to do is press the printer and we'll get that information. It'll take half an hour. How would the change affect the wages in the country? Why don't we just try to imagine, Mr. President, what would it do for one paid man who has a loan of value to pay 500,000 dollars? a lower amount per year than before, a man who may have 400,000. every month? Is that not just a powerful influence? I think so. What I don't understand is that men are taking this incredibly short step now instead of taking matters out of a committee that will solve it to a large extent. This brief discussion has revealed much about the subject. It has been said that the dollar does not exist, in fact, in opposition to the opinions of highly respected economists. No one or few remembered the earlier conversation at the interest level in the country. There will be talk of a dollar and that's exactly what it does. I don't know what the Norwegians think about this. Their currency has lost about 20% in a few years, if I recall correctly, something similar to that of the Swedish currency. Yet, they still have 2% interest and less on the mortgage. There's no insurance there. Well, I didn't look it up on the computer before, but I remember three countries that I can't mention right now, one is a developing state somewhere at the bottom of the Mediterranean, one in South America, and the third is a state of war. They'll be suspicious of their loans and then Iceland. We're in great company out there. We have no ambition to break out of this system, nor do we have the courage to do so. That's really lame. We now know that those with the most fresh thoughts in the labor movement put this matter first, which we are talking about where there is no solution in the case we are discussing. It has been stressed that the mortgage will be taken from an index account on loans. The middle class has already answered this by presenting the bill. During the discussion the other day, the representatives of Walkers agreed, no one else had the courage. No one else was interested. VG wasn't interested. The party wasn't interested. It's like I'm saying something new, but it's not encouraging to our homes in the country. This is a future issue. and it's been made even more hairy than ever. It's been done even less certain and unnecessary. Of course, we do not stand in the way of the proposal for the high General Assembly, but, Mr. President, without minimizing dog stocks in urban areas, I believe that the change in urban dog maintenance would have a similar effect. I can't see that it means deeper steps, unfortunately. We're looking at three political parties'products that come together for the shortest possible steps that can be taken. We were told that there would be a need for a government with a broad appeal. There's no appeal in this, either wide or queer, not any. This is just a check on the same situation, one more committee, to consider whether the government can walk around a pool and kill the toe in order to check the temperature. That is what this suggestion involves. It contains no solution. What, then, is the result? Yes, the Ministers are reporting at the Council by the end of 2018 on the key findings of this task force that has no ability. Then we'll probably take this discussion again on nothing for two, three hours. By then, you will have spent nine months catching up the facts and information that everyone knows. Everyone knows the price of consumer loans'insurance will have a bad effect on the homes of the country and their products. It will be confirmed. Because it will also be spoken to the watchdogs, warnings will come from the pension fund and the Secret Bank that wants both belts and bracelets, and two sets of each. People will try to wash their hands, all who are supposed to have and can affect this matter. I can quite see, Mr. President, that the late Minister's report will be a description of handwashing. We can read about washing hands in the Bible, where people also washed their hands from calamity. Now it's going to be in the fall. It's terribly evil, so I'm polite, that this open-cut government can't make a remarkable step in this matter than the one that is here. That's really lame. And there's some really bad messages like that. into the upcoming collective agreements. I can't see and I can't imagine anyone who's gonna be running the game at the next bargains, i.e. from under the employee will take such a hairy hair as an answer. They will not accept that. Instead of taking bold steps, real steps, in this matter as the middle class has offered, this is offered. Like I say, people who come to the table with little ambition and who get a case in line with that. Instead of 30 silver coins, they get three ministers, that is the price. In itself, this matter is sheep that do not hurt. It is beyond reason that some experts should be assigned to sit for nine months and gather facts that exist and that all know about and then are packed into a caramel letter and a minister will transfer reports on the findings of the noncombatant committee and will not be a part of it. In itself, John Lennon's humming tune might be followed by this discussion, a song entitled ◯Nophere Man◯, but it is not good to translate it into a beloved skyrocket at once. He well describes those who do not have an opinion and do not read for no one; they do not read it, and no one cares about the suggestion. No one will care about her because it has nothing but one more committee. Mr. President. It was ludicrous, and it has become more ludicrous. I trust the minister's report will be even more hairy than this. Then we can rejoice that this government's policy with this broad appeal in the affairs of the households has no, it doesn't exist. That's what they're gonna do. They're gonna park here. That's sad. As I'm saying, it's not going to change your approval or the demonstration of this proposal. It can hardly do any harm, for it is a good thing to have in one place this information that everyone knows. It may be useful for itself, but the benefits for the public in the country and homes are less than nothing. The apathy of the VG and the United States on this matter is also interesting in itself. It's good information for the people of the land, so it's not completely in vain of this proposal. A deep step, though, will not be defined and will not do.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u71	A respectable president. I welcome the opportunity to discuss these matters on the subject at the right time. A senator. I listened to the majority of the talk, but I actually came a little late into the Senate Hall to hear it all, unfortunately. Hv. A senator mentioned 50 billion that would have resulted if you compared housing loans with index prices and index prices without housing. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, however, would not consider such a calculation to be important in view of the period first and second, that we would take into account the time in which the economy is moving ahead. I'm asking because it's 50 billion bucks. Today, the senator's differences did not differ that way after a crash. I quickly calculated from the Haguems Office's numbers, which I don't like to be responsible for, since I made them in a few haste, but I tried to be careful. I can't better see that, first of all, there is an index without housing teams bigger than the index, i.e. it increased more in 2008 and 2011. According to my preliminary calculations, the same is also true of the 2008/2015 season. It rhymes with a figure that says a review of a good language. A senator on similar subjects. It shows that it would have been in the interest of borrowers with an index without housing teams. On the other hand, it seems to me that they would have been in trouble from collapse until 2017. My question is, doesn't it matter what period we take when we draw from these indicators and determine what is suitable for creditors and citizens? Doesn't our place in the economy at any given time really matter there?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u72	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator very much for this wonderful answer. It is true that the time period in which people watch matters. When the members of the Central Party won the bill that appeared after the annual events, we watched the period between 1989 and today. In itself, both indexes correlated approximately to 2004. Then it began to shine, and it has soared all the way down to today. The 50 billion people I mentioned earlier in my talk are unique for a period of 12 months. I did not fall into the temptation to take e.g. During the past 60 months, the number is Gothic, much larger, and more decisive than the period I took. The period we watched was, as I say, 1989◯2018. The case proposed by the Central Party is our first act of decommissioning insurance, i.e. to offer real loans to people in Iceland. We haven't talked much about the growth in this discussion, but it's quite remarkable that when people in every neighboring country are able to take home loans for a long time, with a 1.7 to2.5% interest, without insurance to use the ben. The most economic interest today is, if I remember correctly or last time I checked, at the pension fund, something about 3% plus insurance that is now, in the best circumstances we're talking about, prepared to be under the penitentiary of the Marine Bank for 48 months or so. This is also the key to the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u73	A respectable president. I'll try to figure out today to work out from 1989 as well. I have no doubts about it at all. A senator tells me, I think it's only true, has not been experienced in any other way so far. Then I'd like to ask. A senator mentioned in terms of the pay number. He asked: "Who's on bail? Again, I aim for the collapse, and my numbers only return to 2008. Maybe there's a reason. A senator with other figures in this subject, but I can't better see from my quick bill than that the pay card increased by 92% 2008-2018 while the index increased by 58.3% and index without housing teams increased by 53.1%. There is a significantly greater increase in pay in the country than in consumer prices, since the cost of money has increased. For some reason, the government is always boasting about this, but of course it is a conjunction of a complex factor. [[The president calls.]] Then I'd like to ask, so to speak. A senator has an opportunity to answer this question: Does he believe that homes in the country would be better off if insurance was made for a pay sheet rather than a price sheet?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u74	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator again. There, however, he chose to do what he warned about in the previous answer, to take his appointed time. If the pay number had been taken over a longer period, as in his case today, he would no doubt have had a different result. I don't feel that the pay sheet is a better indicator to correct a pay or loan from a loan or credit - secure loan simply because I believe that the Icelanders are expected to enter the modern world and act in a similar way as neighboring countries. We're supposed to try to make these adjustments so that we can expect the thousands of people living in neighboring countries to think of moving home, thinking of coming home, and then buying an apartment. We should also try to keep those who are still here from getting out of here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u75	Mr. President. There was one word in the matter. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Gerstein, the Sæmundsson of Sæmund, who led to my arrival. It had become a tip of the word "sport. " I'll get to it. I had the opportunity to observe this matter and to participate in its payment at the scene. The Economic and Business Committee. I can assure you what. A senator's claim to this matter is totally unmistakably sheep, and in that respect, in the spirit of the excellent party, which I highly respect, which makes this matter known. I think it is fitting to say that it is a sheep without cause. There should be no other way than to appoint a group. Who can resist it? I didn't do it at the scene. Named. I'm protested to be a member of the staff and to consider, there's nothing wrong with that. But it's become a step I took. Hv. paritaprevir It seems to be appreciated by the Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson so that in this case it appears that there is some step. He used the word "step, " using the word" threshold, " at least. So it's not even gonna make it. This is exactly no stage towards the goal that I know we're going to do. A senator agrees, i.e. getting rid of this insurance policy, and even if it had happened. I just wanted to take this opportunity and mention it. Of course, I will discuss the matter in its entirety in my followed speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u76	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the record. It may have been beneath my dignity to call this step. However, I do not recognize that I did so in an outstanding way. Like what? I'm sure a senator heard me say men should have taken these real steps this way, but maybe it's just a courtesy that fell out of my mouth by accident. I'm not used to it, as you are. I'll take my whole mind off with what. A senator says it's a sheep's problem, it doesn't kill anybody. Its ambition is, as I described earlier, no one. There's a natural reason for what I traced back here that those who don't bring anything to the table and don't have any demands, they don't have any demands, except for those three chairs. But as I say, the matter for itself doesn't kill anyone, so it's as harmless and as good to have in one place, as if at once, the information that everyone knows exists and what is. And it is also fine if some have been working on it for nine months to gather it together so that a minister can give us some dieting report that doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u77	Mr. President. It is a feature of the few hours that are spent in the Assembly Hall in order to discuss this matter, as it were. A senator brought up the matter in his speech, that here is a very prominent absence of several fine political parties. With the exception of a respectable president, no member of the United States is here, not one. There may be more than last, but actions show the signs in this subject, the interest in the subject is not great. At the same time, I have to say, a respectable president, that it in its own way shows indifference and indifference to the interests of those who need to live in this arrangement. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u78	V.E.G. President. You're right. A senator says, of course, we should here take a big deal on insurance, on its effects, and on how badly she plays home and business in the country. I'm happy to be around these two senators with left greeners who are in here but not in the discussion. Similarly, I rejoice that the representatives of the United States, now naturally available for other jobs, are here with us. But I agree with what. However, it is of interest that the absence of these classes from the discussion is very interesting. You must advertise the policy of these categories of insurance on consumer loans. Or do they feel that way? Or do they have no idea how this system plays the home of the country? That, however, would be well - thought - out and needed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u79	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's speech. At any rate, I can say that my feelings under this talk were the result of the question. A senator would not be completely satisfied with his own skin or heart, and I was thinking because I know his mind on these matters, his indexes, and his insurance. Like what? The speaker entered his talk was the first one to be delivered at the 2016 General Assembly, where there was trouble. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson is one of the carriers with a bang. paritaprevir Elisa Lára Arnardóttir, Ásmundur the Einar Daðason and Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir. Then I hear statements here in a talk or two. A senator that there is no ambition, this is an ambitious case, and so on. I can't quite figure out what this is all about. A senator was one of those who spoke more strongly about these matters and was very interested in going to what is called cut off insurance. I'm asking why. A senator: What has changed in his attitude? A senator's case on this matter? Here we are going to do professional work to assess the pros and cons of changing the index terms possible in credit agreements in accordance with the laws on which I think it is very important. [[The president calls.]] What has changed in the mind of some? A senator in charge of this matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u80	V.E.G. President. I'm very kind to answer this counter, which I thank you very much for. My views haven't changed a single hotel. We used to be here for a while. A member of the U.S. government support board, which had in its case agreement a certain point of borrowing index binding. However, when it came to 2016, it was seen that the partner who is now the dance partner would not be any more favorable, and this was presented. The change now is that the person here does not depend on that plumb anymore. The senator is, so he can allow himself to follow his uncircumcised inspection without warning, without taking into account those who trod him through toes in 2013-2016. Had they been experienced by the 2013st2016, I would have thought that my ancient group had come up with more demands on these materials, but no, people were afraid because they wanted more in chairs than they had achieved in this case. I'm not gonna worry about it. It's just a personal decision. But my opinion of this is exactly what it has been. I want to go on this thing and I want to do it right now, that's why the middle-class suggested the bill I mentioned, which I really hope to see. The Economic and Business Committee is off to the 2nd. [[The president calls.]] Then let's talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u81	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I understand why. A senator tries to ignore this naturally by talking about decommissioning insurance. That's not what this is about. I don't understand why. A senator's time for this is due to trouble. A senator is presenting another index - based issue. That's what we're talking about here. Exploitation of insurance is a different and larger discussion. But, hey. A senator chooses to answer that question. Hv. A senator was a messenger of the case when it was first submitted completely unchanged. Now I make it my turn to change as a matter of course. A financial and business committee has dealt with the situation, and has taken full account of all domestic problems, from the Huns Office, is improving for this case, greatly improving. If we stick to this, I'd like an answer from what happened. A senator: What has changed his view of this matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u82	V.E.G. President. As I said before, I will not lie against that matter, for it kills no one, it hurts no one. But I think it's ambitious. Maybe the difference is, my ambition has increased more than what. A senator at the time since the final decision was made. That may be so. Or it may be that my land has grown more than a dog. A senator at the time. It may be that I have offered even more than the treatment available to me by means of the modern system of things. That's why I'm sorry, I'm not being secretive, as we have seen. I find this sadly short step in trying to achieve justice for the homes of the country. I might have changed that attitude, huh? Senator. Yeah, I'm more depressed, my ambition is bigger, my mess is bigger. I'm not going to make sure of what. A senator's ambitions have grown in those years. [[The president calls.]] I thank him for these answers and exchanges today, but I don't doubt that at some point we're going to lay down and file a case that we can join to make things better for the homes of the country. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u83	A respectable president. I'm here as one of the movers' proposal for a resolution on the recording of a uniform index price, mainly to thank you. A financial and business committee for careful work on the case and to promote the opinion that I welcome the commission and its proposed changes. I believe that the change in the proposal of the Committee will far better achieve the aim of the proposal to revise the instrument used by us Icelanders to assess and measure inflation. The choice of the tools we use will significantly influence the overall pay of the households from the prices of the mortgage, as is done in a detailed report on the proposal. The main improvement in the proposal is that this review is not limited to the index price of consumer prices; it is suggested that more index types be checked and most likely to be considered, to examine the index of consumer prices, the consistent index of consumer prices and the index of consumer prices without housing. There are also other tasks under which, i.e. that, in particular, at the time of the analysis work, the level of inflation is measured in the major business countries of Iceland and the impact of the change on salary, credit rates, prices-separated loans and interest rates and effects as proposals for money reassessment may have on indicators, prices and interest policies of the World Bank. I'd like to finally deny that I'm celebrating the committee's opinion and change of ideas.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u84	Mr. President. We will discuss the proposals under which financial and economic secretarys will be assigned to appoint groups, appointed experts, to assess the benefits and shortcomings of aiming into the insurance insurance of the index price without housing or that a loan has the option to determine which indicator is the basis for the price of such commitments. Of course, there's nothing wrong with the fact that these items are checked and returned, and nothing but good about it. As I could in opposition, I had the opportunity to take part in the current case. The Economic and Business Committee is, of course, recommended that this proposal be accepted. Of course, it is not that people have to realize that this is a bigger matter. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson, in fact, just moments ago. That's the question about the continuation of insurance on the Icelandic financial market. I don't like the way I get it all figured out, so I'm going to go over that subject and remind myself that while this proposal is presented with a good mind that I don't doubt, it's not in any way a compromise on our future financial systems. I'd like to stress it very strongly, Mr. President, that we must not get caught up in routine thinking, but it's as if there's a little issue in the case of some when discussing this matter. It's as if people can't imagine the world being different from the fact that it's the most secure place to be. I'd like to allow myself, Mr. President, to encourage you. The U.S. Senate to consider, even if it was only for a moment, how it is possible to form in our part of the world, not only in our neighboring countries, but if we take only the northern countries we have a lot of contact with, no other nation has taken up as far as possible here, as it turns out, that ordinary people, homes, families go under the insurance insurance of the apartment loans. This arrangement is unknown in our part of the world. You could think about it even if it was only for a brief moment. Is it so that in some way the Icelandic economy is totally at odds with everything people know in our part of the world when it comes to economic and financial issues? Isn't it so, Mr. President, that it could flood and live on the economy of other countries? Have not Norwegians had to cope with the consequences of massive spillages of oil products as important as oil production is for them? Have not the Norwegians had to contend with a dramatic fall into their Norwegian crown for these reasons? Is it possible, Mr. President, in this matter to bear it at all times, that there are some special laws and conditions that make us live in a truly special system unknown in our part of the world? I have this warning, in our part of the world, because the Navy, in some report while he was still on the rise and defender of this system, claimed to have found some sort of example of the practice in Uruguay and some countries in that part of the world. I assume that there is an entirely superior expertise in the Navy Bank at the core of the economy in these countries. This is what the Secret Bank allows itself to do in this service, and I allow myself to say, to financial powers. Of course, having said that it is proper to remind financial institutions in general if, for example, we have a nose problem. Banks in particular, with great interest in maintaining this insurance policy, come to them in her strength and wealth. On the one hand, because they have far more money than they owe in securities so that each increase in index number gives them more money, and then it is the other that they have of this interest that they do not want to escape this arrangement by any means. They do not need to be helped by the Council of Uruguay, even if he has to go so far, Mr. President, to carry for himself in this regard. This, in turn, does not increase respect for the excellent institution. Then I'd like to just mention it, because I was talking about the habit, to the point of it. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson, which is now constantly taking part in these discussions; it is as if the routine thought has taken hold of it a little. Senator. I have to let myself say it, but it's not harassment, and it's not meant to offend anyone or anyone. It's not enough for what's happened. A senator is saying that terms don't mean anything, like when he says that insurance is one form of interest if I just noticed. It can't bring us anything in a discussion of the global interests of the Icelandic nation to confuse terms and to ignore terms that were relevant and accurate to their definitions. Mr. President. There are also others to be counted in a short talk by the Surgeons on your insurance policy. It is so, however, when these issues are brought up, as I used to do in opposition to the past, that it will then be very sudden to the councilroom. The whole group will not be seen, but I'm glad to see that here is one representative of the Independence Party and even the left of the clan owns here, not always when these cases are scheduled. The network is naturally absent, but they feel that there must be a way in the European Union and they must record euro before they can dream of getting rid of insurance. Hv. paritaprevir A representative of the projections here in the audience can correct me if the direction of the Environment is any other than the one I've just described in this regard to the Convergence. There is another feature of this discussion. No matter how often the serious problems involved in this system are addressed to ordinary people, ordinary people, citizens of the country, the interests of the industry, and the like, I'm talking about small and medium-sized companies, these suits described, and they're always smart. There's always an answer, Mr. President, by silence alone. Except when men get themselves thrown away by some idiotic thing like pretending to point out Uruguay in order to justify this insurance monster treated here in a ruthless manner toward the homes and commercial services of the Americans. Where would it be accepted that in a loan agreement all risks due to changes in rates of loan would be cut off on another party of the contract, of course, the weaker person, and where the stronger person in the relationship, the financial agency, is completely protected from this risk? At the same time, there is a loan that goes under the price of a commitment that has no chance of defending yourself from this risk. This danger haunts him because of his inflation, coming to him from all directions. Whether the cost of increase is domestic or foreign, due to economic mismanagement or natural disasters, or simply a decrease in nature, such as due to a crop failure or what to name, the borrower should have full responsibility. And how does the responsibility he places on him come about? Yes, in the home, the property he is buying with this priceless loan and then his personal contribution as the real estate does not stumble, so to speak, if the market price of the property does not expose the value of the loan after it may have gone astray, as we have known during the collapse. Let's go, Mr. President. In this case, the amount of indirect taxes could not be increased or made change, even for good purposes, except that creditors should carry it in particular to third parties. The tax is paid by men, and then they're supposed to pay some lender extra pay and a higher head chair. When the current government has some climate policy and increases carbon costs, it increases carbon costs by 2.50. or whatever it is, at least 50% from what used to be, there are up to 500 million new demands at home. K. Because the government has a climate policy on the basis of a contract it made out in Paris on a global scale, 500 billion are formed. K. A requirement for home life. What have financial institutions been working to achieve, requiring 500 million dollars, all of a sudden. K. in the homes? What has been done to criminalize the establishment of a budget of over 500 million financial institutions? K., since all the power of the justice system is behind this requirement? In case of a switch, the official and the police are eating. The lack of protection is complete. Therefore, I say that the lack of interest that is manifested by some categories and this lack of ambition is expressed here by the highest degree. Governments show complete disregard for the interests of these people. And what are the benefits? These are the homes and workplaces under which they live. Mr. President. The wisdom of commitments is determined. There is no market for these growths. There's no connection to the outside world. There is no comparison with the outside world. Unconvinced growth can be compared with what happens and goes on in other lands, but these insured growths are a very special phenomenon that has not received any attention. It's just a deal. The borrower has agreed with the insurance policy to protect the lender, the financial agency for all the prices, whatever their name may be called, which is so strong a commitment, and so wide as to stipulate close to those who accept such commitments are removed from financial resources during the contract period. These things know people from the collapse. We have considered a reason to protect people's interests from borrowing money other than people's earnings, and here, all the more people earn in Icelandic dollars. Hence, normal people are not authorized to borrow in foreign currency. What does the inconsistencies of the crown have in common? Just not a thing. This is a completely different phenomenon. These two things, Mr. President, are related in nature, and it is not in any way possible to claim that it is counterreformable, when men on the other side have the policy of turning people away from borrowing what money they don't earn, in order to protect their interests and interests, to keep them safe from the price of the crown when it's gone. Mr. President. The most successful loan market in this country is the vastest. Yet, on the basis of public opinion, no calculator formula has been published on how to calculate insured loans. There have been no algorithms published and it is confirmed in a recent financial and economic minister's reply to this point I proposed. The Ministry of Economics is not aware that there were no formulas available. On the other hand, when you ask about the surveillance of this part of the financial market, it shows in the same answer that it appears to be, it is my suggestion, not their word, that the monitoring of this part of the financial market is in damages. To answer that, it is absolutely unavoidable to follow that question behind with a very thorough inquiry on how the SEC works on this field. A white book has been referred to here for discussion. It must have a significant contribution on how the Icelanders get themselves out of this arrangement and just stop doing so and, as it happens, take up with other nations a comparable order in their finances as well as in the funding of their homes. We came as best as possible, let me say, just look at the Norse role models in this subject. Let's see, for example. The Danish companies that specialize in housing funding. It is only necessary to look up Jyllandsposten or Børsen to see that our Scandinavian brothers and uncles, as in Denmark, are paying less than 3% interest in their mortgages. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u85	A respectable president. I just want to start by correcting something that's wrong. A senator said that I had said that terms were irrelevant. That's wrong. There's a difference between words. Marking terms is not necessarily important. It doesn't necessarily matter whether the phenomenon is called red or other green, as long as we agree on what we have on our own. For example, we do not need to sense a red color in the same way to call it the same name. It doesn't matter if his name is red or green as long as we're talking about the same thing. Hv. A senator said this because I certainly once said that insurance was, in fact, just a form of a growth arrangement. I wonder what. A senator disagrees with my explanation for this. The explanation I gave, and was trying to be accurate, contrary to what I understood at the back of my head. A senator, if not for insurance, interest would only increase more when inflation comes. That is what has often happened in other countries when inflation comes, loans are rising dramatically, i.e. where interest varies. In the United States, interest rates vary from one country to another. The longest regular interest I know in Iceland's mortgages is five years. Which I understand is considered to be variable everywhere else. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: I don't really want to scribble about who said what; it's all taken up and written down. Well, that's good enough for me. But I'd like to ask you why. A senator whether he believes that without insurance for inflation, banks would not simply raise interest as sensitivity to inflation to the otherwise desired growth.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u86	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson for the counter-sponsore. It's absolutely far from me to go. A senator's word in his mouth, I didn't. I didn't say that he said that terms don't matter. I didn't say it, but I noticed what I pointed out for him, and he repeated it here in a speech chair. It is satisfying and beneficial to agree on who said what. But he asks - and then we've come to an important material point, thank you for that question, okay? A senator - whether the banks would grow without insurance. Would they not partake of that counsel? Hv. A senator may have noticed that competition among financial institutions here is not exaggerating. To promote this competition may be an independent project to be considered. So it is that when people - it doesn't matter what market it is, we're talking about the financial market now - they're in a position to work here under extreme circumstances, they are in good hands; based on mutual understanding, they don't even need conversations or messages because there's an understanding between parties. And this has been seen, men see it, and there's no other thing to say, but that the banks have in an organized way sullied their unscrupulous loans by driving people away from them and pointing them at the insurance policy that is a self-profit profit source for these financial institutions, such as I thoroughly traced in my speech. It's necessary to promote market competition here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u87	A respectable president. I couldn't agree more. A senator said it would be good if there was an active competition, a general competition, in the bank sector. It hardly has such few banks to succeed, and this is true of various industrys in Iceland, unfortunately, because of the small size of the economy as we know it. I'm not gonna carve any more about who said what I said. To promote competition is certainly an independent task. Does this not, however, happen in large economys that, when it comes to inflation, simply raise the interest of banks to compensate for it? I'd think it happened exactly the same thing. I know for certain that it happens exactly the same thing. That's how banks work. They're there to make money. People may be shocked, but they are. As to whether banks get people on insurance: I don't know. I try to weigh the benefits I see each time, and it doesn't always feel very simple. But I always have to take a lot of factors into the joint, like, e.g. how fast I want what I'm borrowing. For example. There are also more inside, even equal loans, and variable interest rates and various kinds. But it just doesn't change anything. Of course, the banks will raise their interest if it comes to inflation. Counts 'em out. A senator is such that if there had been a collapse of 2008 without insurance, the banks would have just let themselves have it? Yeah, yeah, if we just lose a bunch of money, it doesn't matter. I don't think so. I think banks are about to make money. That's why I think they're raising the interest. As far as they can get away with it without polishing people out of the markets as far as they can go. Whether it is insecurity or inaccessible, the bank does not care as long as it can charge for the risks it is taking or is otherwise taking. I repeat the question: A senator did not say that this would happen in a decent large economy that is an active bank market competition? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u88	Mr. President. This case is much bigger and more serious than it is, in fact, defending and destroying the statement that people are trying to convince one another that a business enterprise is the goal of profit.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u89	Right.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u90	It's just that it's in the middle of the morning and it's bright. There's no disagreement about that. But we need, what. A senator and others, to approach this subject with ambition. Part of the ambition to build fences is that companies who work here in the games may wish to treat their businessmen. It's a matter of personal interest that I hope we do what we do. A senator and others will be given the opportunity to discuss later, which fence should be the case. Let me say, Mr. President: Is it by default that financial institutions have unlimited authority on which interest they choose to place on securities loans in view of the lack of adequate competition on such markets and no foreign guidelines to support? Is it, then, merely possible, that it should be left to these financial institutions to decide for themselves? Is it necessarily that financial institutions are entrusted with the idea of reevaluating their growth in the past without a framework for which to be legitimate grounds for such a growth decision? Is it just so that if this bank, which is natural, is another thread investment bank, has lost on some kind of nonsense, he can just roll it over to his clients, homes, companies, and that's why the state likes. A senator points out? [[The president calls.]] There's a big, big subject here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u91	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ólafur, Ísleifsson of Isleusason, excellent speech. We're discussing indicator numbers, like a change in motion. The Economic and Business Committee calls up, evaluating criteria for calculating insurance insurance, i.e. This index ground, which I believe, is a great improvement in the case. I'm glad to hear it, and I'm glad to hear it. A senator agrees with this opinion, as it turns out. A senator made a good account of his speech. Get up in the speech of the dog. The senator was the struggle for insurance as such and as the basis for loan agreements, especially for domestic housing loans. Hv. In this respect, the senator handled the damaging health insurance. I'm gonna ask you what. A senator about them - I don't mean to say gratifyings, but the theories of this destructiveity, that inflation causes instability and high prices in itself. We can imagine that the cost is going into society, that a home and a business need to take it on and roll it into the prices. This is one thing we're fighting. So, this is just a follow-up for itself in this respect. One is that insurance will result in a higher level of growth. So the third, which the Navy's actually agreed with, i.e. ... thatthiswill take the bite out of the economy, the growth control device. In case of a moment. A senator would review these three factors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u92	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Then I'd like to answer your last inquiry. It has been strongly held on the Council Bank, and I have not heard anyone contradicting that insurance has a very disturbing effect on the implementation of money policy, as it is driven by the bank, on the basis of the Council Bank and the government's agreement at any given time. So I don't think it's a problem. In fact, the three factors are the same. A senator asks me, not one of those points happened in my speech. But if my insurance insurance is causing instability in itself, I'd like to mention that when the Secret Bank came to a meeting of the Economic and Business Committee, rather than a financial committee, I now allowed myself to ask the Council Bank on this matter. Because for these, or in the power of this automatic, insurance-separated machine, all the capital chairs, and, of course, bank balance accounts, what would be the likely financial impact of these factors? I'd like to say that this meeting is now available on the Generals web. It makes it clear that at the meeting, at the meeting, at the time of this meeting, at the very least the zebra gave way to compromise. Of course, it's a matter of personal observation, and it's not exactly from my judgment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u93	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's answers. That's right. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson did not directly review these questions, but many in his speech described -- we have never reached a country in the politics, in a political discussion, or to take the step to the full - okay for this cause, the insurance policy. When you get up, e.g. By our laws, it affects the loans, etc. In the political discussion, as you would like, we have tried to isolate it into simple phrases for understanding. The operation to defuse insurance, as we have wanted to talk about, even to go so far as to ban it, is simple. This may be one statement in the interest of growing and insurance laws. But I'd like to ask a question related to the case I believe has improved very well during therapy. Economic and Business Committee (ECC) and this is what made the decision: If the result of the professional opinion of the group, as suggested in the motion of changing such a suggestion, the consumer has a choice, and we are always trying to think about consumer protection in this regard, about the indicator number he is taking - he also has a choice of securable or irresponsible - we are not taking a fairly certain step toward the consumer being able to, at all times as this has been said, to reduce the impact of the cost of the economy as we were going over here and there. The senator described his speech so well?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u94	Mr. President. The ability to do what is right can be true. A senator has approached the matter in our talks with slightly different emphasis. He has drawn the matter from a broad perspective of economic control. It's not surprising when it happened. The chairman of the budget board is involved. But I focused on my talk, rather, on the influence of this arrangement in the homes and businesses of the country. Hv. On the one hand, a senator mentions two things that I find reasons to pause to do. On the other hand, he discusses political discussions in this regard. There's not much going to happen to her here, unfortunately, I have to say. Hence, the more important it is when opportunities arise and this council proposal is made. Hence, a senator and his party party are a fine price price; it contributes to and offers opportunities for discussion, also on a broader basis, as we have seen here today. There is another word. A senator mentioned, a choice. Isn't the question just of choice? Well, in my speech I began to think that consumers already have a large choice. They can choose between insurance loans and insurance insurance. But then, as I traced here in one of my previous answers, the competitive market situation is that it is only because the banks agreed to drive consumers into the high prices of insurance in such a way that the price of unsecured loans is insured so that people can see the benefit of taking on more substantial loans than permissible.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u95	Mr. President. Well, the kind of thing that I do have on a financial and business committee is not at some committee meeting on this fine subject, but I still think it's good that the review there is proposed. I think it is important to compare all these options with potential insurance, whether it is better to use the current or uniform index of consumers or indexes without housing teams. But I believe that after all, all of this was extremely insignificant. I miss the conversation about insurance and interest costs, which may be the most important, high interest costs in Iceland, the root of the problem, and some real solutions to it. If an Icelandic average home would pay similar food and interest costs, and our neighbors in the Northland would be equal to the increase in budget per month up to 150,000. I think most homes will remember that amount. Yet here are groups that always talk about protecting consumer interests when it comes to decommissioning insurance but refusing to face the fact that insurance is just one manifestation of the cost of independent money policy. Icelandic homes are not crazy or when they compare, for example. Our choice in loans at real estate, they can look at black and white in bank calculators what they pay for their irresponsible loans and how much money they earn. In the end, we simply pay much more for the financial loan than our monthly payment load is lower. The fact is, the insurance is a result of a high interest level that has followed its own money policy for decades, simply because home cannot cope with the unscrupulous costs of the loans. It's just the hard facts, and it can't be changed by changing the balance of the insurance policy. That is not the root cause of the problem. It cannot be changed without picking up any international coin that keeps its value and can normally be run down at a lower interest level than we have ever done. As we look at this situation completely freezing, we can say that in the last 100 years, we have tried all possible means of independent money management with an Icelandic crown and all of them have failed - without exception. The one we're driving after right now is driving us into the same mess. Although we are living in good times now, we see just the same flashes of light that will no doubt have to go along with it in time. It is quite the same persecution on the crown, it is just the same risk of her fall with the resulting in inflation to minimize the approval of her households. In fact, it is quite unbelievable to watch groups that talk about fighting for consumer interests completely paralyzed in this case and refusing to recognize that we are going into bankruptcy policy, have been doing so for years, decades. It is interesting in the same context to consider that the same categories of protested earlier today to the tolls that took effect at the last month's advantage for consumers to reduce food prices in the country. In this regard, these important steps are precarious. We must face again the fact that one of the main reasons for the high food prices here is precisely the price of our low competitive agricultural products. The fact is, for decades we have tried to get foreign banks into our financial system to increase the competition of financial markets. It has not been successful, simply because foreign banks count our currency area too little to work on, too risky, not really worth the risk of dealing with such a small, self - currency area. Let us look at the difference between the other northern countries and us, seeing how the northern countries react to their own financial crisis by quarter of the century. This resulted in a coronal bank market, an increase in competition in the Norwegian banking market, and a decrease in interest of the growth in these countries as a result and a lesson in the financial crisis. Here our financial market has been further isolated as a result of our financial crisis. The little competition that had been attained, the access to less expensive funds that had been here on the basis of this financial crisis, as well as that, should we not forget that there were certainly some lessons to be learned about borrowing in coins other than, for example. The income of individuals is in place, but we see that we have even lower market competition and even higher interest levels. There's no way we're gonna change this with some kind of bets that we're gonna cancel insurance. The unconvinced terms are simply much higher. Homes are beyond their control. Although we change the calculation of the index, I don't think that that's going to be a very small difference in the fact that, in the end, it's one of the underlying interest levels. We could half the measure of inflation, and I think the growth would remain as compared to the unscrupulous growth rate. The fact is, an independent coin costs. It has cost us tremendously in recent decades and decades. We've seen how the dollar's made up the economy. We do not live in a growing economy, as we often believe in compared with our neighboring countries, just we live in a much fluctuated economy over our neighboring countries. Eventually, we find ourselves in a very similar area, but with much more imbalance, much more supplies for homes and businesses, much more costs and much higher interest levels. Not to be overlooked is the fact that there are two nations in this environment. One is the one who has access to foreign funds in other terms and who earns foreign income to cover such loans. We see that there are dominant partners in today's economy. And then there's the other people, including... small and medium-sized enterprises and households that do not have such access, have to provide a range of high interest costs and have no other option. This simply increases the variation and reduces the opportunities for these groups, which are like small starters, who do not have access to practical foreign loans. I thought it was interesting to hear it. Ísleifsson Our economic system is based on the same economic laws as the economy of our neighboring countries. That's right. There are no other rules here or things that we do for our own good, but we always refuse to accept them. There is no other nation of our little ones who have tried to run independent money policy in the way we have done. All other countries of comparable size have bound religion to other international coins, that is a fact, because they have come to realize that driving independent money policy is far too expensive. That should be our lesson of all these fluctuations, of walking every eight to ten years, and of all its instability, of all the resources it brings for both homes and employment, that it is fully developed. We've tried it long enough. No doubt we can find some new form of independent money policy; yet, it will end in the same way that all the previous attempts have made. We live in a much higher level of inflation in Iceland than in our neighboring countries because of this instability of coin and because of its impact on our economy, on the importance of our foreign trade. It's about time we stopped this deception in a discussion about changed calculators' insurance insurance or out of insurance. We are dealing with a continuing high level of the Icelandic crown. That's the problem, and it's never taken over. Politicians refuse to confront him, this is not the first time in this case or is discussed at the council. People are being fooled all the time by saying, "Yes, we can fix this. I guess we can get through this. I guess we can reach the interest level down here, we're just gonna try some new method. We're gonna ban the insurance, we're gonna do it differently, we're gonna make a new money policy. This has always resulted in the same results, the same high interest rates, the same interest in our neighboring countries. We do not wind up this nonsense unless we pick up an international currency. This is simply a reality. We need to face up to this in our global interest estimate of the cost of our coin. What is involved in this lack of competition, which is in the financial market, e.g. limited influx of foreign capital because we now need influx seas? Very likely, we need to retake the efflux head when the pod is swinging in the other direction. This is a reality. This is the cost of the dollar. We can talk about what we could do for the interest cost, 80,000 dollars. a month before an average home that is the interest difference in the North countries, or we could talk about the overall economy that has been spoken about the magnitude of 200 billion a year, which this interest difference has cost us. I think we'd be a better society if we were without these costs.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u96	Mr. President. Thanks to you. A senator for this speech. He has made it clear that he is not entirely available to so many things that consider how this country could look if it wasn't here with the insurance policy we know. Mr. President. The kind of physicalism described here, the sort of inordinate lack of ambition expressed in speech. A senator, an idealess person - all to speak of our recording of the euro, which is perfunctory. But, hey. A senator must be aware that it is not within reach and, first of all, may be considered at some future time, for the reason that such cases have occurred at the European Union's scene that this was not an option. But at what? A senator who is, of course, well acquainted with the economic and financial life of the country should not be able to discuss this with anything but massive; accuse the people of wearing such tricks, that I may witness a word at the right time. A senator. That's absolutely, I'll say, under the respect of the senator, to speak in this manner. But he has made it clear that he is appointed by the restoration to serve as the most answerable opposers that the national insurance bag will be relieved.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u97	President. Thank you. A senator resists. If I've been furious, the same would be true of the contrast officer, but I appreciate it. I am simply tired of this discussion. I've watched her for a long time, all my career, and I haven't seen it lead to anything. We're in constant circles on this matter. I'm not a fan of insurance. I'm her sworn opponent. I think only the only way to get rid of her is to pick up an international currency. I say again: The insurance policy is our crutch in order to handle the cost of the coin because homes, companies, cannot cope with the unscrupulous interest level. They actually borrow the interest. We know this, and we know well that it would be much wiser, even at this high - growing level, to take an unsurpassed mortgage, where our overall pay load will simply be considerably lower at the end of the day. But monthly payoffs of a much higher kind. Sadly, that is what the home has actually chosen, perhaps, to look into the covert of the insurance so as to handle the purchases of the house, to cope with the monthly payment. That's a fact. I would so much like to be free of insurance with an Icelandic crown, but in the end it has been nothing but our crutch to endure the interest cost of the same Icelandic crown, the instability. When we are overcome by the gangs, we know the consequences. In an effort to stabilise the currency, the growing stage is torn out of control. If so, is it really an option for the borrower: Do I want to die slowly or rapidly? Because there is no way to cope with the interest that goes with it. It's nice to remind you that steering growth went here to 18% at the last collapse. There was no home for unsecured mortgages in that interest.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u98	Mr. President. Hv. A senator prefers to reiterate here and further promote the care that distinguishes all his language. I have to say, it doesn't sound particularly trustworthy. A senator when he pronounces himself, if I correctly notice, as an opponent of insurance when he insists that even the United States can be warned of this competition. Mr. President. Of course it does. A senator recognizes that here there is a serious lack of competition and that all the activities are coloring and all these interest measurements and costs. Hv. A senator allows himself to have a strong knowledge of these factors, to look beyond them completely, not to mention them in his language, and does not even consider the indications on this subject. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u99	Mr. President. Thank you. The second and second man's answer. It's just right, and I just reiterate that I'm not a couple that likes insurance, I've never been. But I simply look to practical ways to get rid of it. It's not an obsession. Some would call it rational thinking. I have simply looked at evidence with or against these issues, and I have long been convinced that it is fully developed by independent money policy. We have not been able to cope with every street from the sovereignty of the currency in its small and unstableness. We've tried hard to do so. That I don't listen to reason, that's all I'm denying. I've studied them carefully. I know there's a lot of things you could do to try to fix the current situation, but it's like checking a battery of cancer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u100	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson is eager for this speech. It was called the euro, and she's been brought here several times. With a more comfortable exercise, I assume that, in time, I will learn it by heart and hope to do so. But the reason I'm going up here is because economists don't agree on whether a currency needs to be replaced to achieve a proper interest level. I'd like to quote one of the most excellent doctors in economics, Ólafur Margeirsson, by permission of the Supreme Court. President. He says: ▪ There is no need for another currency in Iceland to reduce interest level here simply because basic interest levels are determined by Iceland's Secret Bank. It is an example of how Sweden's control height has fallen over time, from being very high to being less than 0.5%. These economists, as well as others with him, say that there is nothing to be done to reduce interest here despite a dollar by establishing a real economy. That's why I want to hear about it. I know it's a racer or something. A senator is getting us into the European Union so that we will be one of those little runners. However, I would like to ask him to answer me about whether he thinks these economists I witness are mistakenly capable of making progress in reducing interest by means of an Icelandic crown.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u101	President. Thank you. A senator resists. I know a lot about how to write a question about economist and a lot of interesting things he puts out. It is true that Sweden has driven its interest level down to the European bank interest level and, in almost formal form, we can say, cancel independent money policy, simply say: We must follow the European bank growth levels in order to, on the other hand, protect our competitiveness and to keep too much capital flow forward or back. In a economy that is so much bigger than ours, as Sweden is, it seems to be working just fine. But I also look back on the fact that as we look to the economy of our small, policy of this kind seems to not work out. I reiterate the number of countries with less than 2 million people, I think they're about 80 or so, we're the only ones with independent currency and independent money policy. I simply think that when we see what our gang swings have to do with the price balance, because of the high proportion of our need for moving in, we simply tolerate less gang swings than many of our neighboring countries do. Of course, the Swedish dollars have been completely swinging in this direction. In fact, it swings much less than the Icelandic one, but I think it's closer to hope, and has been tried repeatedly, to develop something down, but it seems to require the persistent 3% absolute growth plus/minus in order to maintain a reasonable stability in the Crown's gangs. I think it might be very difficult for us to do this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u102	V.E.G. President. I cut it at the end of the day. A senator said we were so dependent on the import of needed items. But I heard him speaking earlier today, since he strongly encouraged us to move in more of our needs, ergo agrienvironment schemes, which we actually produced here in the country with fine results. But they're expensive here, including. Because interest levels are high and difficult to access. But there are others here now near us who carry out their own money policy and, of course, are doing very well; Northmen are subject to a transfusion now. They transport natural quantities of their production, oil, and fish to a far greater extent than we are exporting. So this seems to be a good time. I repeat, isn't it just a change of attitude that we need here? Is that not a change of viewpoint in the Secret Bank, a change of attitude in the banking system that is overgrown? Is it not because we need to clean up rather than let the public bleed all the time for the way this situation is being controlled?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u103	A respectable president. I'm not going to try to get into some learned discussion with the senator, why food prices, or the price of agricultural products are so high as it really is. That is certainly so, we can see from all comparisons. It may have been something to do with our smallness as a nation. Something may have been to do with our north, snowing in May, for example. This may not be a particularly productive land for flourishing agriculture. But it is true that our cousins, the Norwegians, and again the Swedishs, have to remember that Norway is about 15 times the population, would not be 30 times the population of Iceland. These are all different and much bigger economics than ours. Perhaps it would be fine to look to our cousin in the Faeroe Islands, who have spent the Danish crown all along, which is well spoken of as being attached to the euro gangs. [[The president calls.]] It's been going well with the Faeroes with that arrangement; for example, a much lower interest level on the mortgage, no insurance.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u104	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson for this excellent speech. He's getting right into things. We're here to discuss a synonym, to support the decision, which is to assess the criteria of terms of insurance calculation, i.e. This formula, the basis behind the insurance policy set on loan agreements. Hv. A senator took a direct look at what he called the root of the problem, which is that it certainly takes to run independent coins and money policies. There's no dispute. But if we just give ourselves - because it now seems to be as difficult a discussion as the insurance policy itself is, but what. A senator considers it as a cost to keep out an independent coin - in this extreme case, that we are ready to contribute to that cost for some gain; a higher level of employment, the adaptability of the economy, we give it to ourselves. We must, then, constantly evaluate the best possible solutions with the tools we have in connection with our own money policy and its implementation. The question is, in view of the circumstances we have chosen, must we not appreciate it as we are doing here in a step; the goal is to have a choice for the consumer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u105	President. Thank you. A senator resists. That's right, as a matter of fact. One senator says that it is probably a matter to give consumers a choice. I think it is a reasonable approach to say that there may be even different terms for insurance; in the same way that we can choose between insolence and securities of loans, we can choose between the level of the loans we choose on the basis of a loan that is insecurable. In fact, there is nothing that forbids such an arrangement. I think it's good to go through the practice of evaluating the pros and cons of each method. We know that the index of housing usually increases more than the index without housing over a longer period of time, but just when the index is affected, it tends to increase less than an index number without it. On average, though, over a very long period of time, it is quite certain that the index without housing actually rises. On the other hand, I have good conviction that it will be reflected in the interest rates of the individual loans, that the higher interest rates on the indexes usually yield less interest. In the end, there is a basis for one of the names that leads to their growth rate. On the other hand, I think so. A senator began to think that it would be very beneficial for us to appreciate this. We always talk about the cost of independent money policy that we are willing to handle. We have never tried to measure the benefits, what they really bring to us. I don't think that gives us the benefits that many people want to mean. On the contrary, I think it brings us primarily more radius and higher stature.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u106	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. As I suspected, we, although not entirely agreed with the coin as such, agree on the issues we discuss here and the insurance policy. But I want to agree with what. A senator regarding the coin was published in 2012 from Iceland's Secret Bank on the possibilities we have in this position. I think we must, as with the government, the money, the labour market, in this global context and economy, be constantly discussing the possibilities and solutions we have and the arrangements we have. It also applies to the coin. We are to see the benefits and benefits. I can say with what. That's what a senator does.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u107	President. That may be the very root of the situation. As we looked to the UN Bank report, the result was very clear, the Navy considered the euro the most desirable; then they listed a few other options that might be considered, but perhaps the following version of some kind of independent money policy, but the euro would probably be the best. In fact, it was of interest to note how little the council did with that report in its time. It was a very small discussion. In effect, the secret bank was to throw the ball over to the politics, which simply did not grab it, would not accept it, and the case just lay down. Now we are expecting another report, or work that was started in the past government, on the possibility of a review of money policy. In fact, it was the exception of the euro, perhaps with a clear conclusion in the UN Bank report on its own. But how interesting it will be to take the discussion of the benefits and shortcomings of those who will eventually find them!
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u108	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for this discussion. I find this very interesting, and especially when we political opposers so-called get to reason on it. I'm not going to repeat what I said in my earlier talk, but I've had a few things I'd like to include. There is one thing I notice about this discussion. At times, I find that viewpoints are carried on by questions about the informative and personal traits of others. It is spoken of as courage, as it were the spirit of one another. A senator mentioned earlier, an idea map, and then gone nuts. Councilmen who care for consumers and view this as a great deal of conflict, as this is the case with interests. To me, it's not that simple. For me, it's about informed and right decisions on the grounds. I'm always getting it out of the public interest. Especially the most industrialized. If I didn't care about that group, I'd be completely different from what I am. I always find it most comfortable to approach this subject and others connected on the basis of facts and that we are willing to reconsider the matter in the light of facts and, in particular, that we can discern the facts we agree with, which is a ridiculous word in that relationship, some of which are facts that cannot be disagreed about them. Of course, economics are not simple in nature. It's not obvious what's at the top. A doctor in economics is right, and we shouldn't pretend it's obvious. It's not. It is not obvious whether we should take into account in 1989 when comparing the ratings of consumer prices with and without housing teams or in 2008. I think it makes more sense to spend at least the years after the turn of the century and the collapse wounds because they are recently in my memory and the prospective nation because of the collapse and benefit of the so - called before, i.e. A credit card. This is not necessarily a proper requirement. That is a requirement for a particular group of people in a particular situation, and because we want them to have the rules so that they serve a certain group in a certain way, seeing that those who had to do with what was going to be in the crash and right after. That's how I see it. That's for the reason I like it, e.g. " do not hastily include the index team because I am not better able to see, according to the details I understand to be facts, but in those circumstances, it would have been worse for the worst of the group at the time when he needed no more trouble. Now we're at the top of the economy, so at least I don't feel that we should put the rules out of what happens to people now if the standard is what was suitable for people in a much worse situation. This is a valid question. She's completely honest, she's completely honest. There is nothing in it that implies a state of carelessness, discouragement, or anything like that. I mention this because sometimes when I listen to politicians talk about courage, I get chills. I often don't think that's what we need, but much more that we have a common understanding of the facts, their interaction, and the reasons why we try to solve each case. I'll specifically mention this because, of course, we've gone to the Icelandic press conference on the blessing of such economics if I understand correctly, independent money policy, i.e. That we have our own coins and the advice of the interest level, that we have a traveling bank that has a interest level in it. Here, people have gone back and forth, making a little fuss about whether or not to blame the Icelandic crown. I don't think it's the scene. The way this works, the way we want it to work, the facts and, of course, the facts and, above all, what theories are correct about the interaction of these facts and the goals we are trying to achieve. I've been staying here at the U.S.A. to calculate numbers from The Haust, and I'd like to mention one special thing that I know will probably bother people a little, but they'll just have to have it because we can't allow some kind of irritability to get in the way of facts when we're talking about this sort of thing. There are things that are often said in the discussion that are simply not right, such as raising the loan and raising, and not paying. It's just wrong. I'm not defending the highest. Secretary of finance, I'm not thanking him for that. I'm just pointing out that according to the numbers we have, it's wrong. The pay has increased much more. If there's some disagreement on that, I'd like people to come up with facts, some numbers. Let me give you an example. Before then, we were what? A senator talking about what period we should aim at, and I took 2008 for the reasons I mentioned earlier in this talk, and I think that collapse is a certain failure in Iceland's economic history, I think that makes sense. Maybe I'm wrong, but I mentioned it anyway. Hv. One senator noted that it is also possible to calculate it back to 1989 and, as I know of the reason. A senator, he's absolutely right. As far as I can see, his facts were correct, and we can totally discuss them on that basis. We don't have to talk about courage, we don't have to talk about it. With regard to the thought or the alleged lack of ideas there is no lack of ideas here either, people just disagree on them and you can. It's just healthy, it'd be weird if it wasn't. That's why I like this discussion. I'm going to give two finals because I had a conversation with another man. Senators on a number of things, like the crown and more. On the one hand, about the insurance policy, I think of it as a systematic question. As to consumers, there are only two questions: What choice does consumers have, and what safeguard does consumers have? I want him to have as much of both. The intermediate interaction is not necessarily simple, these are not necessarily compatible targets, there is an increased selection at consumer protection and vice versa. As a matter of fact, if I allow myself to paraphrase what I have heard in this discussion, not necessarily here today, the goal is to limit the choice to increase consumer protection. There is no worse requirement. People can think that way, it's an honest attitude too. I just don't have it myself. What I'd like to work on most of the time is that I've given myself the opportunity to have the two features of the Icelandic economy. I've given it to me to try to avoid the debate about whether we should go to the EU or pick up another coin or something like that. These two conditions are: that we're going to have our own money policy, in other words, the Icelandic crown, I've given it to me. Second, that we are going to have a free flow of capital, i.e. To be without a budget. This looks like the direction Iceland's gonna have to pay for all the signs. If I talk to some specialists, they all say that it's an abnormal situation to have free flows of funds, to have headed, they shouldn't normally be able to cope, they're an emergency for an emergency. This is a common sense in this sector, as I understand it, and that's why I'm giving myself these things. Not necessarily because I want them that way. And if we give these two things to ourselves, the dollar will become unstable. She'll be. Then I'm not saying we have to throw her away, I'm just saying that then we have to assume that. Maybe we can skip free flow of capital, can have a head, permanent head. Let's see what the EEA says about that, but okay, there's one possibility. Then we have our own money policy, and perhaps the tools of the Council Bank would bite properly, and the dollar would be stable. It can be. I think, for example. that once the plant is there, it works perfectly well; it begins to undermine us when the oceans are gone. The other possibility is not to have independent money policy. There's one possibility. If we're going to have these two independent money policy and a free flow of capital, then here will be instability with its associated confusion. It's not because I want it to be like that, it's not because I want a dollar to be unstable, that's not because I want to go to the EU. I just think it matters when we're trying to deal with these symptoms that we're onto the basis behind them. I thought the interesting talk on growth, unfortunately, I can't go beyond this time, but at least I want to thank everyone who shares in this discussion because I find it interesting. [[The president calls.]] I think she'll continue, I hope she continues because it's good if the Icelanders are in general in these matters, no matter what happens. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u109	Mr. President. Before discussing the matter materially, I would like to provide a specific basis for considering such matters when discussing them, the nature of our economy, and where to go in the future. First, I would say that if Iceland is doing something different from any other country in the world, it takes a lot of evidence not to change it. If Iceland is doing something like any other country, there's a lot of evidence to back it up. I'm not saying that we can't be different or that circumstances can't be different. Sometimes they are, and then we take it. I'm saying we have to have tremendous support in any of those cases. In this context, we need to realize that we are between Kate and Ireland in the gross domestic product of man. We're between Nepal and Papua New Guinea in gross national product over their heads. We are not amazingly different from all the other economic systems in the world; neither are we different from European economic systems except in our smallness and our own independent currency. There are a lot of similarities between our economy and our European economy. We're supposed to work on that. This is why I want to mean that it is entirely absurd not to use the exact method of inflation. It's completely absurd. Not only because it indicates that everyone else is doing something wrong or that we are doing something wrong, probably even the second, but it also makes it impossible for us to compare ourselves with all the others. Really, that should be enough. No further discussion should be needed. It's ridiculous to do things in a different way than everybody else when we're talking about such a simple standard. So, of course, we should adopt a uniform method of measurement. Now we happen to have a bit of a ridiculous system here in Iceland. The answer was quite clear. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson earlier that not all of us agree completely within the Congress of Porta on the exact nature of the unscrupulousness.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u110	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u111	The attitude I have is that it actually unites the stand that has been overlooked. paritaprevir Ólafur son of Ísleifsson and the stand that has happened to him. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson. Some might think it's strange, but let's see. Even if we ignore the impact of insurance on the public, on the average man who is borrowing prices - and I'm not saying that we should overlook them, but let's look at this - it's still the case that insurance is causing inflation to increase the amount of money in traffic. It's part of a loan insurance policy, it's a small inflation, meaning that the loan's head grows, except that it's not just one loan but tens of thousands of loans, each adding a little bit the total amount of money. As a result, they add money to bank accounts. This involves the position of both banks to everyone else, but not everyone else's to the banks. This actually encourages more inflation. The only reason we don't have one of those high inflations is because there's something in this system all over Iceland that works as a drain for all this inflation. Whether it's the production or anything else, I just don't know, I haven't seen a proper diagnosis of it. But if insurance was taken away, it would result in the distribution of the risks of the inflation effects between banks and borrowers. In addition, rather than being partially placed to the head seat of the loan, credit costs would immediately appear in the form of a payment flow. This would increase transparency for the borrower and increase his awareness of the cost of borrowing. This would likely result in lower interest levels. There's some equipment about it. Nevertheless, I believe that the level of interest would be the most reasonable one because there would be a greater chance that competition would be natural. Besides the fact that foreign banks are more likely to enter and offer competitive interest. This would reduce the need for influx seas. That's where I'm going to say it. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson came in just a minute ago. There's something in economics called trillea. Trilemman makes an amazing point that you can have a free flow of capital, independent money policy, or a steady gang. There are two things you can have. You can't have all these three. It is not possible to have all three properties at the same time. It's just not possible. But the Icelandic economy has always been run on the grounds that these three can be maintained, with marvelous consequences for all when they fail. What do we need in Iceland's economy? Yeah, I mean, we need the stability of a stable gang. This is because our economy is relatively small in international context. Businesses of households when they buy products from abroad and from companies who try to sell goods out of the country to obtain currency pay depend on some kind of presupervisability and stability. It is absurd to be alwaysperforming our country's companies against the individuals in the country and the households in order to live in peace with this unstable arrangement. So we need stability. The other thing we need is a free flow of capital. No other way we can do business with foreign countries. Iceland produces e.g. About six million fish a day. It's interesting statistics. No dose adjustment is necessary. But obviously we can't eat 6 million fish meals a day, so we need to move them out. Free flow of capital is the key factor in doing this, although we can, of course, ignore capital drivers as we have recently done with incredibly limited joy on the part of the EFTA monitoring agency. What we don't need is an independent money policy. True, it is good to have a chance of independence in the money policy, and no one is suggesting that we stop having our own independent money policy. But I suggest that we stop most of it. It is because, as noted, the dollar is an incredibly small currency. The crown just doesn't fit into the market of the government we generally compare with. To find as small a currency as the crown, you have to look into the LETS system and examine the tax company in Switzerland or even the Brixton industry. True, I think the dollar is considerably bigger than the Brixton industry, but still, it's not the real fees that state is behind. We need to approach these things with greater reason. It's amazing how many things are in Iceland's management that go on going completely stupidly stupid ways of doing things in a totally different way than any other country, just to be different and pat us on our backs for being special and different. Usually when you begin to pluck the argument, this variation from other countries to the ground is designed to create a situation where special power balance is maintained in behalf of a particular group of people and against the interests of all other Icelanders than those of this group. This may sound like a conspiracy theory, and I don't mean it that way, but the fact is, all these decisions were made by well - informed people who knew exactly what they were doing. Someone's making money out of this. We know that. In the case of the insurance policy, it is obvious that banks are making quite a lot of money at the expense of the public. It's just clear. In the case of the crown, it's different who's making money by how unstable it is every time, but I can tell you that it's never the public who gets the biggest prize out of it. Yes, there are times when the flight to a foreign country may go well enough up so that it becomes only cheaper, but more is not really the case. Everything else breaks out in prices within the country, causing us discomfort. That's what I'm trying to say. It's the same thing. We need to start measuring things in exactly the way the countries around us do so that we are comparable to them and that we are not doing foolish things. Life insurance needs to be cut off on individuals because it increases the amount of money in a way that makes up inflation, drives it up, and only has a positive effect on the balance of bank accounts. Then we need to reevaluate our money policy, not just by sifting down the crown as it has been tried many times, but by establishing a more reasonable future arrangement that is suitable for modern society like ours, which is just trying to share in international economics and needs to do so, fully counting on it. At least this is my weak attempt to integrate ideas. paritaprevir Þorsteinn the Víglundsson of Wazvik, and Ólaph the Ólafur of Ísleifsson. I think, basically, it worked.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u112	Mr. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy for his efforts to perform the analysis of speeches and including memory. I suppose it takes a pretty deep dive to integrate my language on the one side and on the other. Víglundsson However, I eagerly look forward to reading the Senate speech when it is presented in that uniform. I don't think she'll be even better at reading, but she was when you had a chance to listen to her right here. I'd like to use this opportunity: The good members of the Pirate Congregation have referred here to known economic teachings that I had the opportunity to discuss in my birthday book not long ago when I discussed the crown and the sovereignty. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Because I hear what you're saying. Senators are looking for an Icelandic word for this theory, I just want to let myself tell you about the fact that I called it a threefold pressured article. Hv. The senators have promoted a synonym's decision to set up a working group to look at the various terms of the insurance policy. There's nothing wrong with doing it as I've said before. But I restate on the fact that we can't fix it here on a better subject of a better prosthesis when the subject is bringing it into the Cat's nose, I'll let me say, because this is not a business. It was put out of total distress 1979, it's going to be 40 years ago and in a completely different society; in a whole different financial system, in a whole other financial system. Everything's changed, and we're stuck here. A new generation has grown up in the land that knows nothing but this and thinks it's just like Esjan. It's just a given size. That's not the case, Mr. President. It seems clear to me that attending here at the High Council in this matter is a real challenge. Here are two groups that must agree with the definition of being completely hardened. One of them is absent, as is always the case when it is scheduled. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] The other one has clearly described his stand, and of course, I am referring to a restoration. Hv. The senators of the Parliament, who are here to present this matter, how to calculate the index, do so as a given cause, it must be said at the present time. What's the occasion? The motive is that this has raised quite a special problem in national housing, a very special problem. Some of these problems are man - made problems that stem from a political policy followed by the largest rural society in the country. This has resulted in an extremely poor rise in housing and rent prices, and it returns to this index and increases it even though the general price of goods and services has been subsided in the country. Resentment rates have been required, Mr. President, tens of billions of these - tens of billions of dollars above. These amounts, these extra burdens laid on the homes and businesses of the country - let's just talk about homes; this means that they're supposed to depend on the value of cods in Iceland. New requirements that have thus formed in the home; apathy, indifference on the part of these groups who do nothing of this nature are absolute and repugnant, let me say. Honorable candidates are here in the government with two categories that always live in the ancient setting of these issues, saying: "We're going to reduce the value of insurance. It's a code, Mr President, and it means in Icelandic: We want to keep the insurance policy going, and we won't stir a leg or a team to get it out of here. The lack of ambition for the government is shown by its declaration of policy, standing before the fact, Mr. President, that the housing team has laid these burdens on the homes of the people of the country, it says something like this: that it will during the election season, that's probably four years; that could be the fall of 2021, therefore, initiate an examination -- how to remove real estate prices from the measurement of consumer science. Mr. President, initiate inspection. This is the government's ambition. It's a government like that. An advance group is involved, which has repeatedly indicated that he is interested in the matter. I'm not questioning their sincerity and honesty in that, but he's a member of the government with insurance companies. It's a good thing everyone has that open eye. However, there is reason to note that after a very large rise in housing prices, as well as a reduction in overall prices, no one knows who will be involved. That's why there's nothing wrong with sitting over it, and the matter is taken out, so I'm being recommended by this council plan. There's no loan plan, I'll say, more widespread in Icelandic, financial markets, at least Like it's about the homes, but insurance. However, monitoring of these factors is not required. I'm going to allow myself to use the remainder of the time to call attention to a question I have asked for financial and economic secretary's monitoring on the financial security of the Commission to provide loans to the Minister and the SEC with the opportunity to explain it, to the council and to the nation, in what way this loan class is being monitored. For example: How many times has the SEC requested information from surveillance providers on interest calculations and insurance bills and made special observations, including field observations, if necessary? How many times has the SEC felt it was necessary for them to follow up on the information provided by the Agency and to carry out the financial insurance policy? How often has the SEC followed the proper way of dealing with decisions related to the growth and insurance issues involved in monitoring parties? What judgments are considered, and how does the SEC publicly explain its assessment of the effects and the precedents of the court's judgments? It is also good to ask: Who can direct the complaints that do not consider proper calculation of interest and insurance? Can they direct the complaints there to the FDA and be resolved with formal treatment? Or does a minister think that there is sufficient resources for individuals and lawyers to seek such solutions? Mr. President. The same book is all learned in this regard. The people are urged that there should be a level of inflation and life's force here, but there are no official formulas for how this should be calculated and the surveillance is not on many fish. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u113	A respectable president. I would like to present to the Committee on the General and Education Committee for a proposal for a hearing on the review of XXV. a section of a general penal law that turns to delinquency and violations of privacy. This motion is about to be revised whether or not there is a law on justice, whether or not it will be better to bring it into general damage rights, and is, in particular, a proposal to strengthen the freedom of expression here on a land where the harsh legal mask that now exists has been used too often to hold back the expression in the media. The proposal suggests that the Minister of Justice shall be committed to reviewing this section of penalties for this purpose. ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The European Convention of Human Rights, as it has been used in the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, and that Ministers submit a bill to legalize that chapter at the next legislation. The judgment of the European Court against the United States has become embarrassing, and the matter is imminent, so it was generally well accepted in the idea that such a review would be made. Officials and members of the Committee felt that this was necessary and timely review, and the same was true within the committee. Because time goes by, and things happen no matter what is taking place within the council's walls, it is so pleasant that after the proposal had been made, the Prime Minister ordered the Commission to reform legislation in the field of expression, media and information freedom. As a result, the General and Education Committee is playing the game of using the work where the Committee's projects overlap to some extent with what this proposal is going to do. The committee has even. The task of going over the available legal bills known in the daily spoken form as the IMMI premieres that are rooted in Jónsdóttir Jóttir and Pirata within the council walls. The Commission is to have anything free of hands, but what the General and Education Committee suggests is that the proposal for Congress to be added to the work of the Committee is actually to the role of the Committee. Therefore, we suggest that the Council's resolution of the decree be referred to the government and commissioned to ensure the review of XXV. will be the project of the committee that has been proposed to reform legislation in the field of expression, media and information freedom. Because time is not only the quality to suffer but also the quality of frequently occurring down to the same site so well that the president of Prime Minister Eiríkur Jónsson, a professor of law, had 12 years ago a brief ceremony at a body meeting as a deputy and presented it, in the 133th legislator, a proposal for a judicial hearing on the part of a minor who is materially agreed with the proposal that we are here to hand over the same Eiríkur Jónsson as a courtesy of his work in the behalf of a prime minister. I expect this action of the council not only will the case come into good hands but the right ones, to return to the source. I am excited to see what comes out of the work of a prime committee on autumn days when the committee is scheduled to submit their proposals in a bill form. Under the opinion of the General and Education Committee all the committees, and here it is Birgir Magnússon, Jón Steindór Valdimarsson, Birggis, Guðmundur and Thorsson, Steinunn Árnadóttir Turnu, Willum Þórsson, and Thorhldur Ævarsdóttir Ahvardótir. Árnadóttir Kolbrún Aarnadótir, who was absent from the case, writes under the authority of the Council of the Council. So the committee suggests that the proposal will be referred to the government after the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u114	Mr. President. We will discuss a proposal to refer this second fine synonym to the government. She turns to reviewing the section of the general penal law that turns on the offense, which is needed and a good work. It's amazing, though, that not long ago. First of all, Iceland is in a group of countries like Azerbaijan, who still have prison punishment for expression, and that's something we should all think about. Today is the international day of freedom of media, and today it is also emphasized in the context of creating a more hostile legal environment than is found in many places. In Iceland it is impossible to say that the legal environment is hostile to the media. Transgressive laws are repeatedly used to draw money from individual media media media sources, which seem to be just a little better in protecting than they were, with unfounded injuries known to be no longer working for the rights of expression and for the media freedom of freedom of speech. The reason is naturally this number of sentences issued by the European Court of Human Rights for violating the freedom of expression, not even a good enough protection for the freedom of expression, not even in the judiciary. Today, there is also 199 days from the time of the ban on the subject of the hour, 12 days before election, about the financialist then the prime minister of the 2008 bank crash, as he sat as a member of the Senate, now at the highest level. Secretary of finance. In the court's court of this case it says that the most serious thing about that very matter, or that's the way I read it, is, of course, that the ban was that it could have been an intervention in free and democratic elections by keeping information from voters so short before elections, information that would certainly have had a purpose for the public. I wonder, especially on this international day of freedom of media freedom, why there is no more turmoil over this situation. When I present this situation to my colleagues at the Council of Europe, they'll be rather surprised and quick to say, "It's a little like Russia or Turkey, that free media can be shut down just in an uncomfortable news transfer. It is certainly disturbing to learn how easy it is to reduce the freedom of the media in order to deliver news in Iceland by contracts, as well as by law. A general law environment does not cultivate our media, strengthen them, or support their work. I've once been in this talk program about a number of things I believe have considerable cooling powers on free discussions in Iceland and free media, and I'm not going to go over it on long terms here and now, but I'd like to call attention to the special two primes that Pirantar and I've proposed that have not been allowed to reach the 1st. Still there. One of them is a case dealing with logical support in judicial decisions. When the cost of judicial punishment is dropped, we want it to be especially necessary to support that decision. It is quite common to know that the cost of sufficiency is dropped more frequently than in other cases. This means that the media may have a very high level of lawsuits without breaking the law. This practice of canceling the cost of the case can contribute to the very easyness of financial resources in creating the media at high costs for repeated lawsuits, thus exerting great pressure on the freedom of expression. This bill is designed to oblige courts in particular when the cost of judicial hearings is dropped. Thus, we can have an informed discussion of customs that have developed in the media and whether there is a basis for changing our routine in due time. This is an important bill because it strengthens the civility of the media against unfounded insults, and I feel it is extremely important that we strengthen them in that position. Another bill that we've already proposed is about the use of spoken language in the case of perjury. Therefore, it is intended to settle the advocates in the offense, since the bill suggests that it will always be granted to appeal a case to a high court of misjudgment. For appeals to be made, a certain level of appeal must be applied for appeal, but where a level of appeal is required in a penitent but by convicted penitent penance, it is much more common to gain an appeal level of justification. Today, therefore, there is a marked imbalance between the participants regarding the availability of courts where it is easier to appeal acquiescs than convictions. The bill suggests that there will be an imbalance in the right and protection of freedom of expression in the grueling business by always allowing appeal in these matters. This bill also simply focuses on strengthening the legal state in Iceland so that there is equal talk between the participants in judicial cases like these. It is easy to present an injury case and demand a million dollars on damages, lose it, and then appeal to it. It's harder for the other person to appeal. Loss of media, e.g. The case and the wish to appeal to the Supreme Court, or the Court's right now, may only be $250. K. Unable to reach the high level of appeal. Then you have to apply for permission, and these put people in a conflicting position when it comes to looking to a higher level of judgment and we want to level that position. As for this new committee, I'd like to say that I'm glad that she's taken over, and she's going to submit the proposal to reform our law on freedom of expression, for with a very great deal of work to do. But I don't think how long it has taken to get our legislation into such a state that it will last an international commitment that we've been on for decades. We should know better than to have such traditional legislation as we have really had so far to the freedom of expression. It may very well be that a council proposal for Iceland's protection of expression freedom was adopted in 2010, eight years ago. It's been a few years since the bills to fix this position were available. They've only been waiting there in some drawer without something being done about it. It is natural that we have not gone beyond this. I may find it most tragic that during the international day of freedom of media freedom, there is still a multicenter ban on the media, and not all are crazy about it. I'm crazy about it, and I'm not sure people will realize what a dangerous democracy it is that we don't fight a position like this. If we allow this to continue with one media, we will be reduced to the end of any discussion that is not comfortable for rulers and that will cut to the end of our democracies. I don't want to see that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u115	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for an excellent speech. There are three questions I would like to ask you. A senator in. Hv. In the public assembly, one member says that repeatedly drawing money from the media or the media has been used, if I understand the senator, with unfounded charges. I think it is very important that the senator only follow it and tell us what it means, because it is certainly quite a shock to say that individuals in the town are going to pursue unfounded charges with the sole aim of getting money from people or the media. That's quite a big word. I don't necessarily agree with a senator. I'm totally clear on that. But how important it is that if so, the senator can point out that this is the case! I don't think it's possible to let it lie in the air that people are doing it in general. I agree with what. A senator on the restraining order at the hour. It's very special that it's been granted and it's still going on. I'd also like to ask the senator if she's not concerned that this case will be referred to the government and the committee on this subject. As mentioned in this article, the committee has no letter of encouragement; it is not clear in the letter of address whether this case will fit the role of this committee. Has the senator or the committee been assured that the matter will be adopted by the committee? I think it is very important that there are certain that the committee takes it up, that they do not die just because the commission is unclear.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u116	A respectable president. We have received confirmation that this case will be adopted by the Committee. That's good to know. But it generally falls within the topic area entrusted to the committee, which was to review the framework of the freedom of expression in Iceland and to improve our protection from the right of expression. I don't want to go off at this moment to give us an outstanding example of what we are talking about, but this attitude is a major concern to me that it is initiated on a mass medium's hands that evidently falls within the bounds of Article 6. Europe's European Convention of Human Rights, and thus bringing up the highest court of matters that clearly fall within 6. c., and do so in the force that there is considerable wealth, and even repeat it. There's something to worry about in Icelandic society. It may be nice to consider this matter further with 1st. about our bill, especially this in canceling the costs of the court, because in that report we go through thoroughly why we make sure that there is always reason to back up why the media have been given the legal expenses of having been exonerated in the offense. That's where I think the discussion should be very specific. Maybe I'll come to the last question of the senator next door.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u117	A respectable president. The second question was to the committee as a boy. In fact, a senator answered in the beginning of the answer. The committee and what. So a senator received confirmation that this committee, with an undefined letter of command, would handle this case. Good. That's the answer. The Senator reiterates his view that it is that, perhaps not doing it, but there are cases where money is advising charges, etc. I know a lot of accusations in the event of an accusation, but I appreciate it if the senator and possibly others explain it when their case is addressed. I simply intervene in that matter by asking if the matter of Congress concerns me. Senator. Now I have to admit that I don't quite remember what it looked like because I think that no man, no matter what he does, can be immune to any responsibility for what he says, writes, or does. However, we need to be very careful, and we must be careful that the media and the media are not being silenced. Absolutely. We agree on that. This cannot happen. But we may also not be aware of the rights of each person to take his rights into his own hands if he thinks he has been wronged, if he has gone into his own private life, or if someone killed him so that he feels that he has suffered any harm. We must not allow such things to happen and that humans can take their rights, no matter who it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u118	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator again resists. It is important to note that many of the media have special cost in their operating accounts for unfounded lawsuits on them. What's dangerous about it is that the media start censoring themselves. They do not want to talk about certain sheep that are strong, though they have the right to do so, for fear of a court official. Our bill aims to ensure that when a person is acquitted, he will bring in an uninhibited, self - cost of the charges, not the media, which is justified by the charges. That's extremely important. Except for the time margin hidden in that here is really still in prison punishment of expression. That's very serious. Although it is not widely used, I still remind myself that a minister asked that prison punishment be applied to a matter that was not particularly pleasing to her. And only that can have a cool effect on the free media. The only thing we ask with our bill is that the object of the media in these matters will be correct because they will be exposed to nonexistent lawsuits. Then they are given the cost. This is totally unacceptable, considering how little we do for the financial environment of the media and their financial resources. So we want to change.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u119	V.E.G. President. I'm a member of a General and Education Committee, and I'm involved in that committee party and the proposal as well. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson reported earlier. A review of the section of the penalties involved the opinion of most visitors and, indeed, the members of the Committee, that there is a basis for reviewing the section of the penalties involved in the protection of privacy. It was noted that in this country, there have been controversy and in some cases conflict with the findings of the European Convention of Human Rights. In fact, there was also evidence to suggest that a decision to execute judgment was changing in this country. In fact, it may also be noted that in the comments made by prominent visitors, there was a view that it was a reason to realize that a judicial action at the European Court of Human Rights had also changed to some extent in these matters. All of this is what needs to be considered before such changes are made in the country. Thus, there was agreement that there was a basis for the belief, which is the main theme of this proposal and the following events of the adjustment that led to such a view. When considering this at the Committee's edge, it was stated in the Committee that this project has affected work once done - in fact, under the leadership of the Ministry of Education, on the basis of a Congress resolution that Iceland will be the front order for expression, media and information freedom. It is true that the results of the committee or project management that did this work have not been entered into the Senate but exist as data that can be considered at work in this respect. At the same time, like a coop. Earlier this year, Andrés Ingi Jónsson, chairman of the Commission, was determined to set up a special job to review the legal field in this respect, which is in terms of freedom of expression, freedom of information, and the freedom of the media. Of course, the review of the injured section of the penalties works well and would actually have been strange if specific work had been expected to take place regardless of the work that has already begun. This, as stated by the committee's executive reviewer, led the committee to conclude that it was reasonable to refer this matter to the government with the objective that the proposal as set out would be among the subjects of the project management or the Committee to Presidential, under the leadership of the son of Eiríkur Jónsson, to take into consideration their work. I think that in itself was a successful solution. It is not, I think, a great disagreement that there is a review of the rules presented here. However, we may not necessarily be able to determine exactly how this will be done. A person has wondered whether a chapter of this sort belongs in the penal code or whether it should be referred permanently to the realm of the private court. Today they are in the form of a very special theme language. It may matter how such obligations are made in the Law code, both in interpretation, in proof, and in other such features. It is important that this is examined, not only from the main element, but also from such legal viewpoints so that such regulations fulfill their purpose, i.e. that there will continue to be a law in the Icelandic legislation that makes a person feel guilty, guilty, guilty, or in violations of privacy, can seek justice in one way or another. It's important. However, at the same time moderate measures, both in the implementation of laws and then in the implementation of such regulations, do not violate the principle of freedom of expression and speech in the country. Of course, I believe that the judicial action of the past has given us a reason for such a review. There is also reason to consider such a law in the light of changing expression forms and media, which, of course, are the realities that we face today, much different from the reality that existed just for 10 in the past 20 years, not to be spoken of for long periods of time. Of course, it is important that legislation reflects this reality so that it is safe to be careful that when people are really wronged or opposed to the privacy of their private life, they have a legal option for people to seek their rights. However, as I mentioned earlier, such laws, such laws, and their implementation, go no further than is necessary to keep the freedom of expression as a principle.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u120	A respectable president. I'm not going to have many words on this matter, but I'm going to agree with what's been presented here. I'm a member of a General and Education Committee. I've been involved in the work that has been done there on this matter and is involved in it. This is an important progress, and I trust that the committee that will serve as the president of the son of Eiríkur Jónsson will bring us in to see that there will be an adequate legal environment for misjudgment and abusive speech. It hasn't been in this country for a long time. I think it's important to remember that it is urgent for people to be able to take care of their own business. Every human being has his own manliness and dignity and should be able to defend his immunity and honor in any way. We see in Iceland's oldest sources from the Commonwealth period how important human reputation is and how difficult it is to become. Nöi was the cause of death, as we know, and so it was after centuries. How important it is to maintain the high value of dignity for each individual! It's a certain rights, people's weekend. On the other hand, there are other rights that meet there, the rights to express their mind, to express their opinion, even if it may be harmful to another person's reputation. It is also the right to share news of things that might cause bad things to happen to someone. It is the right to run the media in such a way that the environment in which we deal with it is moody. It is very important that the freedom of expression is spent in the country. There's been a mistrial over the years, as we know it, and this has been a judgment. These have been consulted by the European Court of Human Rights and the Icelanders repeatedly received judgments from Europe, where Iceland's Supreme Court has received half a series of slants for its judgment in which the concept of honor, is clearly outranked by the right to express himself and the human right to make a statement. This has affected the media and their environment, but what is more, and even worse, it has also affected individual journalists. They have suffered heavy financial fines and high costs apart from the inconveniences that each individual must face in defending himself in court solely because of writing down a report of a work that the reporter knows no better than to be true. It is important that these legislation be reformed. Like what? paritaprevir In his speech, Andrés Ingi Jónsson was pleased to say that Eiríkur Jónsson is leading that job because when he arrived at the council as a deputy member of the United States of his day, he gave the exact bill on this subject. The rush is important to each person, and maybe the more important things are. Yet I think that a man will not bring his fatness to the courts; he shall bring it in his life by his works, and by his ways.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u121	Mr. President. I'd like to introduce to you the employment committee's opinion of billing to legalize the change in wrapping law (finished and overrated). It reads: The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Elísabet Anna Jónsdóttir's daughter from the Department of Business and Development. The committee received a review of the case from the National Farmers Association of Iceland. The bill suggests changes to section V of the packaging layer about the end of the store. It is suggested, on the other hand, that the panels will submit the results of analysis as soon as possible and delay to demand review due to the assessment will not begin until the case has published the results of the analysis. The bill is presented in the context of General's agent's office, who pointed out that the hearing of the law was short and that it always began to pass before a party has been notified of a decision. The committee proposes that the bill be accepted as unchanged. Hv. Ásmundur Friðriksson and Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttur were absent from the case, but under the opinion of the literature currently written, Lilja Hyney Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Sæland Gógóðjónsson S. Brjánsson, Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson, Sigurður Páll Jónsson and Smári Mccarthy.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u122	A respectable president. I recommend to the Commission from the Environment and Transport Committee on bill to correct the change in telecommunications Act, No. 81/2003, with subsequent changes. This is about the introduction of EEA rules, noncommunications and CE markings on comms. This committee has discussed the situation and has been contacted by members of the Department of Transport and Department of Communications, from the Organization of Employment, from the Industrial Association, and from the Post and Communications Organization. The committee received reviews from these sources as well as personal protection. The bill suggests changes in telecommunications and communications legislation by means of the implementation of the European Parliament Regulation and the Council for noncommunications, so-called TSM regulations, and the Council of 2014/53/EU directives for wireless communication equipment, called the RED Directive. The bill also includes... To find the rules of a new U.S. telecommunications Act. Basically, the bill is about increasing consumer protection. A conversation with a visitor with 2 gr. The bill would be longer than necessary according to the TSM protocol for noncommunication. According to this article, a long-term contract and a network contract will allow communication to be controlled by people's communicators'rights to use public communications networks and to meet the requirements for necessity and moderate use. So this is about when one person who offers an Internet service is then buying services from another person, and they negotiate between them that need to be light to the consumers and what they are. Then such agreements should be sent for communication and access to the email and telecommunications agency no later than a week after signing. The Commission has a right to the bill, which contributes to the increased protection of consumers. in increasing demand for communications companies to inform their customers of the measures taken in the flow of communications and how these measures can limit data transport rates. Code two. is aimed at ensuring that the services provider, telecommunications company, can provide sufficient information to consumers on Internet traffic control, whether on the company's network which provides the service directly or in a company that the communications company buys services from. Those providers who buy access to the networks of other communications companies must be informed by these companies in order to communicate them to consumers. The Commission obliges that this implementation is necessary to ensure consumer rights and reach the target, such as Article 4. TSM protocol. The committee points out that it is not new to send leaflets to the post and telecommunications agency. Such a law has long been a law of communication. The only change in this requirement is the ability to handle traffic control in contracts. A few sources criticized that with a b-jord 3 pars. The bill would be only principles of Article 3. The TSM protocol is introduced but not included in all the text of the regimen. The same criticism was applied to 7th C.E. The bill on the market surveillance of wireless equipment, which was identified as the command of the RED Directive as Article 7. Based on this, it would be much more detailed. This is one type of induction method. The protocol must be implemented fully according to the commitments established by the Icelandic government by the EEA agreement and the details of the TSM Regulation will be implemented by the Minister's Regulation. The principles are therefore set out in the bill, but legal authority is expected to implement more detailed regulations. In the same way, the details of the Marketing Authorisation Holder (s) will be stated in the Regulation. The Commission insists that this Regulation is put in place as soon as possible. It was shown with a 6th paragraph. the bill, including it is required that the manufacturer of a wireless communications system placed on the market in this country ensures that the information provided for users in Icelandic is advanced than required according to Article 10. The RED directive to be implemented. The directive requires that the device follow the instructions and information on safety in a language that can easily be understood by consumers and other final users. In addition to the government's obligation to preserve it and to make use of it, according to the law of No. 61/2011, about the status of Icelandic and Icelandic Sign Language. The bill contributes to increasing consumer protection. In order to achieve its aim, consumers must understand the information given to them, but it is clear that a part of consumers needs Icelandic guidance. However, the Commission feels that it is normal to give an exception to the request for Icelandic advice to professionals, i.e. users who are expected to understand the foreign language because of their education, work, or other specialized skills. So the committee proposes that we at 6. it adds to the law that a minister is permitted by the regulations to give the exception to professionals from the principles of the law of Icelandic guidance. The committee explained that there is a need to provide communication opportunities to deal with the changing laws, if the bill is legal, and make appropriate changes in its terms. The committee agrees with this and suggested that the law gains value on July 1, 2018. In addition, the commission suggests two changes in order to ensure the clarity of the law. The definition of Internet access services will be added to the tracks as well as given in the legislation that the user's rights according to Article 1 of Article b-joints 3. The bill does not apply to the use or access of materials or services that violate other laws or judicial decisions. The changes proposal for a network service definition is as follows: ◯National services: An electronic communications service available to all and provides access to the Internet, and hence a link to the next all endpoints of the Internet, regardless of the network and end-of-air equipment used. Finally, the committee suggests a change of 2nd paragraph 9. The technical bill that doesn't need explanations. According to the above, the Committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the above proposals made in a special Senate document. I've traced these changes, and I'm not going to read them specifically here. Under the opinion of Jón Gunnarsson, vice president of the United States, Telegrapher Sævarsdóttir Saevarsdótttir, Trausti Trali Guðmundsson, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, Helga Vala Helgadóttir, Karl Gauti Einar Einar Einar Einar Hjaltason, Resak Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjörnófótsdótsdótir, and Vilhjálmur Árnason.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u123	A respectable president. I recommend a panel of members from a management and monitoring committee on a bill to legalize the use of official information. This is an amazing subject that may not all come to realize the meaning of that name. It is about the reusing of available information in government custody and the public having the right to access to new creations of various forms. The Committee has discussed the matter and has arranged for its meeting with a representative from the Ministry of Presidency, Iceland's Habitat, Private Secret Service, Iceland's National Registry, the Secret Bank of Iceland, the Gangman ehf., the Reykjavíkurakademe, the Czech Library of Kroavogs, the County Library of the Aarnesi Museum, and then the Union of Iceland. News came from the Private Secret Service, Hall Guard ehf., Iceland's Hauspál, Hok Arthórsonson, District Haukur of Eastern Arnþórsson, the Czech Library of Kópavogs, the National Library of Aarnesa, Percontinental Protection, Reykjavíkuracademe, the Union of Iceland's National Bank, and the National Congress of Iceland. The bill introduces the Council and the Council's Directive of 26 June 2013 for the revision of official information. The directive recommends consistent minimum rules in terms of re-use of official and bill information in Iceland to ensure that in Iceland the same minimum validation rules are set up as in the Treaty. The aim of the order is also to improve the possibility of re-use of official information for the benefit of the community as a whole. In one chapter of the information code, these applications were discussed earlier. That chapter will be canceled if this bill is legal. The bill suggests that the legislation on the use of official information will be transferred from information laws to special laws with the argument that the law does not have the same set of values. Thus, the information laws apply to the government, while the rules on the use of official information have a broader range of values that embrace public authorities except those that are specifically excluded. The concept of public members is the same as the law on public shopping, but it is stated that the Council, the Court, and certain organizations fall outside the standard of law. The changes proposed by the bill are that below the set of values, there are collections, libraries, and libraries, including university libraries. It is then requested that authorization be submitted for reuse of official information within a certain legal postponement, i.e. 20 days, in addition to a lawsuit, the request for reused or has not been completed within 40 days. The committee found some comments on the purpose of the use of public information. The report on the bill shows that increasing the opportunities of companies and private partners to reuse public information, enabling them to make practical use of their opportunities for economic growth and employment. In this way, great potential could be sought to create new values from government - controlled information, e.g. by linking them to other information, making new products. The Commission who wrote that the bill that became a valid law emphasized that official information would be defined as possession of the public and that no special fee would be taken on the basis of the author's law of information dependent on the Author's Court of State and Company. For the Committee it came to the opinion that the regulations of the bill were not sufficiently in the mind of re-use of official information available in public tissues, including the U.S.A. because of the request system laid down to lay the price as well as the terms of the bill's currency. The committee feels that it is reasonable to emphasize the principle of recycling and therefore suggest that a definition of reused will be developed from the standard field of the bill in its objective with a slight change in wording. The committee's meetings discussed the value range of the bill, and whether it was sufficiently clear what information was under the rules of the use of official information. It has been estimated that the bill does not require public relations to create information for this purpose, but it is merely information that already exists in public. The committee believes, however, that in order to enhance the sensitivity of the bill, it is appropriate to suggest that a new paragraph, which will be 1 mg. of the articles, that the law will have to apply again to existing government information and the public's right to access it. Actually, all reporters were relatively happy that these special uses were being prepared, but the reviews indicated that the set of values could not be defined in such a way that everyone would have the same understanding. Hence, the committee proposes this change. The committee concluded that there were insufficient limits to the set of values due to judicial decisions. It pointed to a private secret office that handles industrial intellectual rights by special law, patent law, branding and design. Official access to specific product labels is open, but in accordance with the Commission and Information Songs on access, the data of the patent and design applications should be kept secret for a certain period of time, i.e. from six months to 18 months. The Commission suggests that the standard law on bioavailability or utilisation cannot exceed the special requirements for data confidentiality. So the committee suggests that in the final language of Article 2 gr. will add to the new sentence of the substance that sounds like: However, the law does not guarantee the right to reused or access to data related to confidentiality in other laws. The Committee's meetings discussed the value range of the bill on nondisclosure data. The Committee gave the opinion that data intended for economic reporting are confidential data under the law on Iceland's Habitat and the state economy. The directive contains a special declaration of statistical data on the basis of confidentiality. This means that there should not be direct or indirect traceability in data that makes it attributable to an individual or company. With direct symptoms e.g. refers to a social security number, a name, or a picture, but with indirect identity data are meant to include data that may require more analysis when looking through the interaction of information that may form a tracking date, e.g. Bum, job, income. The committee feels that it is necessary to suggest that such an exception be added to Article 3. and thus suggest that the right to use information does not contain statistical information on confidentiality. The Committee also provided comments from a private secret office on the regulations of the bill, which include exceptions in the public right to re-use public information. The directive suggests that the court does not collect data, files, and information from databases which a third person owns legal rights as per authors law. It was suggested that the renovated directive refers to international agreements in the field of mental rights, especially the Bern Treaty, which includes the authorised and TRIPS Convention, which have a broad range of values. In this way, the directive will include the entirety of the brain rights, the author's license, the brand, design, company label, title, business secrets, etc. The same views apply to a general list of conditions for the use of official information in Article 4. The bill. The committee agrees with these views and suggests that instead of specifying authors in Article 3 and 4. The bill will be given to you that the limit to the right of reused rights does not cover the protection of mental rights. It's dissociated. In the 3rd. The bill is requested to make sure that the public members should provide a list of the data that contains information in the reused holdings, as well as the conditions for reused. The Committee held the opinion that such additional registration beyond registration will result in the implementation of information laws and the implementation of public archives, with a high cost to the public. The Commission noted that, with a list of published data allowed to be reused, additional duties are not to be submitted unless it is provided to add a list of data as provided for the unsupervised data. Therefore, this is not a new obligation, but only a requirement to update the existing list as regards the availability of the decisions made, whether request has been received or not. However, because of clarity the committee considers it necessary to make adjustments in the arrangement so that the wording implies that data that has been specifically determined to be reused and therefore suggests the adjustment of the materials. To explain further, this refers specifically to a pack of data designed to be reused and displayed on opengnog.is. The bill says 7th paragraph. suggest that if a person is willing to use his right to reuse official information, direct the request to the official person who has it in his possession or who is legally responsible for the entry and processing of a registry. The committee held the view that such a duty is, in effect, being limited to rights for reuse. The Commission agrees with these views, and it is reasonable to believe that unless otherwise stated, it is permitted to re-use the information published on the government site. So the committee suggests a modification of the wording so that it is clear that no request is needed to reuse public information that is already available for reuse. The Committee's meetings specifically discussed the receipts of the bill laid down in 10. ..... general access to 1.mg. 2 mg. For the Committee there was a view that by reimbursement, individuals and pioneers were being limited to renew official information in support of innovation. It was noted that excessive taxation on new jobs can be far more expensive to the common people than what is supported by them. The Commission also held the opinion that the management board was weak, that extensive information requests to the management board could reduce its effectiveness and be too taxing and, therefore, require modest remuneration. The Commission agrees to view official information as property to the public, since it has been subsidized at the expense of the public by direct taxes and services. The committee thus feels that it is not proper to allow a payment that involves a fair profit, as laid down in 2 Timothy 3: 1. mg, but only a direct cost resulting from the multiplication, delivery and distribution of the information, i.e. Bonus expenses. So the committee suggests 2nd. 10th par. ... goout. At the same time, the Committee suggests a 1st mg. 10th par. add again as follows: However, congregations, archives, and libraries are at the same time permitted to collect a direct cost for the preservation of information and the construction of the rights permit. The Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the proposed changes. 903 and I have identified these changes while reviewing the committee opinion. Under the heading "Helga Vala Velgadótttir Helgadóttir, Chairman of the Netherlands Sævarsdóttir Saevarsdótttir, Jón Þór Ólafsson, Braunr Níelsson, Jón Valdimarsson, Kolbeinn Otcarsson Proppé, Óli Kárason Kárisson, Þýmundsson Sæmundsson, and Þórunn the Egilsdóttir of Egil.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u124	A respectable president. Here's a bill for correctation of land immunity laws, adjacent belts, economic law and land bases, No. 41/1979, baseline points from the Foreign Affairs Committee. 1st par. It reads: ▪ The following changes will occur in 1 mg. 1st par. That's the law, sr. 1st par. track No. 58/2017:◯ The a-team says the 21st count is spoken as follows. Then there is a list of grades 64°14', etc. I'm going to allow myself, Mr. President, to refer to the Senate document regarding all this reading of these figures. 2.g. states: This law already comes into effect. This piece isn't too long. I'm gonna slide through it. With law No. 58/2017, for a change in land immunity law, economic law, and land base, No. 41/1979 (base points and adjacent belts) were performed several changes in the laws mentioned above. The major changes involved the establishment of a so - called adjacent belt in 12 seams of a broad belt in the ocean out of Iceland's territory, which gives Iceland as a coastal state greater authority in that area. Liberation regulations were also adopted for the protection of archaeological and historical objects that are at the bottom of the ocean on the adjacent belt. In addition, the baseline points of Iceland's national, adjacent belt, economic law, and geographic base were measured from up-to-date, to the indication of Iceland's National Relations, according to a new and more precise measurement. Article 2 discusses the motive and need of legislation. After Law No. A value of 58/2017 was found to have switched coordinates at four baseline points in the Land Guard database and thus were falsely specified in the law. Thus, the actual coordinates at baseline of 21, named Stockholm I, had been incorrectly recorded in the database as the coordinates of the baseline point 22, Stockholm II, and vice versa. The same applies to the coordinates of the baseline point 27 of the Meanlands I, which had been recorded as the coordinates of the baseline point 28, the mean national curve II, and vice versa. Since the baseline line is drawn between the baseline points according to their specified sequence, this crossover of coordinates at these four points makes it the basis for the base of the base of two sites south and southwest of the country. At these sites, the baseline line is not a direct linear step between the baseline points from west to east, consistent with the natural situation in that area, but, rather, past one point in the easternmost point, then returns to the west, toward the point she passed, and then to the next point to the east. The shallowness of the foundation because of these four points is not major, but it affects the fragmentation of the weekend, the adjacent belt, land base, and economic law. Thus, correcting the point identification is inevitable and is done by a bill. This is Article 3 of the main topic of the bill. The bill of this includes the physical changes in the identification of coordinates at four baseline points adjusted for one another. Although the coordinates on all the points of this bill are already present in the Law, they are specified under the wrong point name and are now given the correct name in the Law grid. The correction of the analysis is based on data from Iceland's National Protection Agency and is made wish and in full agreement with it. Article 4 deals with constitution and international commitment. The right diagnosis of baseline points is normal and self-deserved and fully consistent with Iceland's international commitments in the marine field. The subject of the bill is in accordance with the constitution. This is verse 5 of consultation. All the dots specified in the bill are already in the law No. 41/197, sr. Law No. 58/2017, but under the wrong name. As a result, the bill does not involve any new material, and as a result, the bill has no influence beyond that of law No. 58/2017 was intended to have. There is, therefore, no need for additional arrangements beyond the extensive consultation recently associated with the law of No. 58/2017. This section is about assessment of the effect. No cost comes with the approved bill. On the contrary, there is no negative impact on its approval. On the contrary, it is important and positive that the baseline endpoints of coastal countries are expressed as clearly, as clearly and clearly as possible. It can be expected that the right diagnosis of baseline points will benefit all concerned citizens and public citizens, from abroad. A report on some of the articles in the bill says: This article identifies the right coordinates for four baseline points that had crossed over in the Iceland National Relations Database and therefore have been falsely identified in Article 1. track No. 41/197, sr. Law No. 58/2017. The coordinates were physical, but they were recorded under the wrong name. Thus, this is not a material change, either added to new pixels or to the coordinates of the dots, but the coordinates already found in the Law are only set under the correct point names and in the linear order in the coordinates file. About 2. explains: The article does not need an explanation. It doesn't say here, Mr. Honorable President, which leads the bill, but I assume it will return to the State Department.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u125	A respectable president. Then we go back to where a discussion was taken up on issues that are about to reduce the election age to the U.S. election from 18 years to 16. A few weeks ago, the matter was very much discussed, but it did not result, and it seems to me quickly as to whether little has changed the case. What I've done in the meantime, looking at what was then presented, and with further data sources in connection with the issues involved, I've submitted a paradox as defined by that definition, i.e. a suggestion that the entire case will be referred to the government. This is the case with a significant extent of its scope. There are a number of cases where people have made this trip elsewhere, with a mild report of limited success. as far as the campaign program of young people is concerned. I think this case is designed to be a responsible factor in actually going to finish it the way it's presented. Now, this is not a good route, and it will not be the standard for the earlier district elections, but it is just over four years until the next district election and I think that the matter to the government will be referred to for a deeper discussion is the matter and its subject matter. There's a change from what we've got. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppér Prope's request that a validation be delayed to June 1. Isn't that the right thing to do? The Senator nods. If this is the case, it will not affect the first election that this rule will be used if not, whether it is a change in the course. Kolbeinn Óttarsson Ottar son of Proppé will be accepted or my proposal to refer the case to the government. The only thing that happens is that by referring the case to the government, we have much more time to get the work done better and to make a more informed decision as to whether it is over our head to change this and whether we are not, if we make this decision, to agree with other factors in this approach. What I mean is to examine the age of self - penance, financial resources, and other factors that are ageless, instead of taking out one of the special things. The discussion in the first part of the 3rd. pointed out that for some, there are other viewpoints but only the honest views that I give to the subject. The official of the case, anyway. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson had in mind. There were other viewpoints that indicated that reaching this thing through is vital for the elections that are going hand in hand. Then I guess they've been counting off votes. It is not good luck to be controlling such important legal measures as this one, as discussed in this article. Again, I'd like to say, there's a paradox here, a proposal to direct the case to the government. It will come to an expeditation when it comes to a choice as a whole. On the other hand, I want to reiterate what I said in the first part of my last talk that there will be no rush, no speed of time, and the matter will be a much better and deeper discussion and treatment if it is referred to by the government rather than if the motion of change is acceptedhv. þm. Kolbeinn Francis Ottar's son, Propès. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u126	A respectable president. We will continue to discuss the concept and proposal to move down the election age, although it will certainly not affect the current elections. At the time, I made a motion as some sort of compromise in this whole matter, but I now view it as being rejected by a motion. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson, the Proppér of Fearers, however, withdraws my motion. But I think it's all in the same place that I left it in my speech a few weeks ago, i.e. that we need to give more time, that we need to review more carefully how we are going to introduce this change, for this, of course, is a significant change. I think we all know and even have children who want to vote; we'd like them to get this right, but I think it's important to spend time teaching, teaching, and explaining what this means. It turned out that the school system felt ready to deal with it. I'll let me doubt it. I'll let me think it takes more time than I mentioned in earlier discussions. But that's just my opinion. It may well be that I'm wrong about that. I think it's a good idea that the government is taking the case into custody because it's a huge case, of course. In this process, of course, there are some things that have been discussed with the discussion, e.g. with a different message we're sending to the young people about the election age, about the age of life to buy alcohol, take a car test, go to the state, and all of this. It's worth spending a little time wondering if this is the whole thing, or whether we're gonna bring more ideas into all of this, as I think it is the case with this proposal for 16 years of election age. I strongly support the proposal to refer this to the government. There is also something important to answer. It may well be that people come here and say that there's plenty of time to do that, after the case has been approved. It may well be. However, if you find that the experience of others, etc. does not result in such a course. I have to bring a case in here and bring it back, which I don't think is a good idea. I'd rather people take the time to develop things and develop them, work on them. I can imagine that a government that has spoken very highly about sponsoring the Council, speaking of democracy and all these fine words, will do a great deal of ambition to win this thing better and make it grow. I can imagine that the prime minister would take this matter in particular and carry it on the terms mentioned here. There were differing opinions on this, not only in the Senate Hall, but also in the community. It is natural to look to and listen to it. Young people, some of the things that are naturally ahead of them. Others are less interested in receiving this right. That's why I say what I said before, and I say again and again, that there's a need to introduce people in what this is. I got the last message this morning, I think I was, a message from my son who was happy: Can I vote? I had to say naturally: No, unfortunately, my friend, you don't get to vote now. But, of course, he will be allowed to vote next time. He will be 18 years old at the time. However, that fine boy has had an enormous interest in this and believes that he is willing to form an opinion and to choose. I'm not questioning that. But I'm not necessarily sure that everyone in this field has shown the same interest and observation. I think it's kind of an obligation that we try to get our children to figure out what politics is all about, what we're doing by coming to our homes and choosing. This does not mean that I am speaking down or minimizing young people, not at all. I just want them to be ready, and they know what they're waiting for, what the decision is, when they step into the ballroom. It is natural in itself that we are scattered in some age line by people's rights, by what they may do, and by what they may not do. It's that my mind really does have a sense of humor.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u127	V.E.G. President. We will continue to talk about bringing an election age from 18 years down to 16 years, that 16 children will be elected in the district election. That matter was discussed here before Easter. I participated in the discussion when the matter was presented. When Andrés Ingi Jónsson... 9th. Reykjavík north, giving the bill, told me that I was more of an American - not a good word for it - in the sense that it was trying to increase the interest and participation of youths in politics. As older ones who have participated in politics, we have been concerned about how young people are not interested in these matters. During the discussion before the Passover, I grabbed the ball and answered, and I showed a keen interest in the subject, saying that I would be keeping an eye on the subject when the discussion continued. Since the committee, many opinions have been made. What stopped the matter before Easter was that the main part of the campaign was that it would be a better job. But now I've looked it up and down and down and looked for information, including... In other countries where experiments have been carried out. In Norway they withdrew their election age. In Denmark, they did not lower their age but became more involved in teaching youths about politics and politics in general. It has increased interest in young people in that country much by this method, more by a kind of propaganda and politics's information. At the age of 16, the 17 - year - old, 18 - year - old, 19 - year - old, discussed that children would be gradually grown, as noted by a boy. Our last speaker: At age 17, we get a car test, 18 - year - olds are allowed to enter wine - feeding sites, not drink alcohol, and so on. Would it not be wise, then, to examine the harmony of all of this at the same age? There are many of the factors that have led me not necessarily to believe that children should be chosen to be younger than 18 years old unless they thought well and agree with them at the same age. I agree that the case will be retracted and returned to the government. There they will be picked up and worked for as long as it takes and carefully so that a good job can be done and a decision can be made. I have met many young people after this matter arose and asked youths - teenagers around me, I have children, and I have many young people. There is little interest in selecting in children under 18 years of age and even in those who are 18 years old. But then come conclusions and comments from sources who just say, "Let the young people alone, allow them to be children. " I would say that this is the case, we should take up more instruction and bring up a discussion with young people and thus arouse their interest in politics and politics, that they feel that it matters, but not just votes to let them vote without it have developed opinions about it. That's what I'm saying. I'm not gonna have any more words for now on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u128	A respectable president. We've discussed the matter both in committees and here at the Senate Hall, so I don't have much to add. But like a dog. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason came into his speech earlier, and I made adjustments in this matter. It insists that there is a delay in the execution of a validation of the law on June 1. In the long and good discussions we've had about these matters, since we've done a lot of viewpoints and seen a lot of things, there were quite a lot of them. People who were concerned about the time for the next district election were knelt but still expressed themselves positively toward the change materially. By agreeing to this adjustment proposal, the authorities will have time to complete the preparation and have four years to prepare the next election and deal with any cases that might arise.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u129	A respectable president. I thank the senator for his speech. It is obvious now that there are differences between viewpoints, both here at the Hall of Congress and at the same time outside the House. This has so far been the case in a very perfunctory topic. I'm wondering what. A senator can agree with my opinion that it is better to go to the government for further implementation, i.e. that the government will take the matter into its own arms, put it in an acceptable process, do not consult, prepare the study tools for it, and so on; provide funding for the case, and then bring it ready and ready for the council here, well for the next district election, during this ideal period, I mean. The reason I'm saying this is because I think it's actually better, since opinions are so changing, to do it this way. If we go along with the matter now and then there's four years to choose, until we're ready to shape the situation, something might arise on this road. You might agree that it's just not right to do this, that was a mistake, that the council should have thought a little more. Then it's worse to bring a bill and retract it or change it. Into this work I would personally believe that the government should take the whole package, by conforming to these sources, this age, which is wide and wide.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u130	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. He's here himself with a change proposal, I don't know that she's been pulled back -- she's been pulled back, thank you for that information, anyway. Senator. It said that the value would be on December 31, 2019. In itself, I can't tell the difference. Hv. A senator asked if I thought the bill should be referred to the government. No. I think that's why. A key to dealing with disagreements is the General Assembly. This has been discussed quite well, working on a committee about this has been professional and practical. I think it's only natural that there will be a vote on this matter and the institutions that will have to be given four years to work on it. On the contrary, I don't think there's enough time to deal with anything that could possibly arise.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u131	A respectable president. I'm sorry to hear that. A senator does not agree that it is a better way to commit the government to take the matter into his arms. I wondered, then, if he would not trust that the government will complete the case and leave it in time for the council and the finished. I think it's a little special not to have more confidence in the government on this matter. But you're right next to what you're talking about. A senator says there is nothing wrong with the Council handling matters. Of course, we should stay here and handle policies, our views, or the way we resolve matters. Here's what I know about a special matter, a big deal, a prince's business, about election age and campaigning for government. I think it'll be a lot easier if this could become one of the many things we'd agree on. In general, when we settle matters, more often than not, we agree at the Assembly Hall. This is a solemn matter, let's put it this way, and better chance of putting your arms around it in this way. I wondered why. A senator cannot agree that the government will be able to prepare the matter better and bring it well done and that it will be at peace before it is finally settled from the Council. I'd like to ask the senator if he doesn't see any quality or advantages in using the trip, if that's the way it is to put it, and discussing the age of suicide, the driving test, the drinking costs, and all of these, so it's all in the same direction or direction. I believe that the government would be best qualified to take this complete package into custody and include this matter and development so that when it comes to the next district election, the Allied Parliament will have agreed together, hopefully, this case will be legal.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u132	A respectable president. Hv. A senator is here in some political gladiator to suggest that I do not trust a government. I don't feel like playing a game like that and asking why. A senator does not trust the General. I believe the government has a lot to do. This is not the first time in history that changes in election law. So far, the Allied has only managed to do so itself. You don't have to go to Mom and Dad in the government to fix things, the General himself could deal with it. The government's doing its part, we're the lawgiver. I trust the Council to produce his will in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u133	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson, Ottar's son Proppér, for a fine speech. Some factors came to mind when she was listened. I'd like to direct some questions to him. First, the decision has been made to refer to the government for a so - called circumcision bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u134	No.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u135	Why? [["Don't... "]] That's when news is wrong. Interesting that it will appear here in the hall with correction of the beard. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson. I saw an interview before what? paritaprevir Kolbeinn Francis Óttarsson Proppér, in the hour where he said he was on a street regarding a disagreement between us members of the Central Party. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi, the son of Sveinsson, who has now been announced as being retracted, and then a deportation motion that I mentioned in my speech earlier. It's very simple, of course. It was proposed, which could be called a reconciliation proposal at the same time, which has been added to the adjustment arrangement. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Ottar's son Proppér now. What I want to ask you is why. A member of the council is: What is the primary problem that he sees that the government is taking this to a greater degree with regard to more age - related issues? I'm sorry. To expand the situation in a whole way that many members of the Parliament have spoken here in Pontu, would a member of the council be unable to approach?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u136	A respectable president. The UN Convention on Child Rights stipulates a child's ability to obtain rights in step. All of this has been shown in a discussion at this council hall. Me and what. A senator simply disagrees on this, sounds me. It's okay to disagree, and then just find out which opinion is open to the majority and which minorities. As far as spite is concerned, I see this in reference to the government, I refer to my answers to my questions. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi, Sveinsson's son.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u137	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator, though short - lived, has the happiest speakers in the councilroom. Hv. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé said in an interview that I think was in an explosion, but it could have been on the line, one of these chat shows, right after the last case was discussed here that he felt he was actually falling. I think it was the wording. He'll correct me then. At any rate, he did not expect it to be recorded again. What's the need to finish it now, by the way? A senator, compared to either pointing it to a government for further implementation or taking it up for further consideration of age - related rights? Is there any other way in which the senator could be remembered than the one he proposes to postpone the single execution until June this year? It is clear to everyone that many here in the hall have serious doubts about the wisdom of doing so. Does not the senator feel that there is reason to give the matter time to grow? Of course, it developed a bit during the discussion, the first part of the 3rd. Not to be overlooked, however, is the fact that previous discussions at the council were greatly strengthened when people realized that they were just supporters of the case on the rosary, and all of them took off the rosary to complete that discussion. This has been the case in some cases, even at earlier times, by moving on without being particularly objective.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u138	A respectable president. I think we're gonna do what. At least a senator would not agree if it was so. A senator is complaining that the matter has not been given enough time to discuss the matter in the Senate Hall. That's a lot of times you've done well, because it's important. I have to confess, a respectable president, that I simply don't remember an interview. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] Maybe there's a reason. paritaprevir Ísleifsson Is remnantsson playing it now. Maybe I'll keep my mouth shut and hear what's going on. But I don't remember exactly what I said in an interview. Many interviews were made on these subjects, since this is a matter that many have considered. Without my ability to do something special in the gaps, I was at the time discussing that most likely the matter would be growing so that it could not be made changes for the next county election, which is obvious that I still feel the same way, as my current program of change. For bringing the case back to the government or if my way is the right thing: No, it's been several years since I gave up my belief that I was always right, a respectable president, that my path was always the right one. I have been ready to listen to what others have to say. I've done this with an open mind in this discussion, on the Committee where guests have been coming. We reacted to the opinion of many members of a committee party at night. Commands and patrols. Already the response has already been made, so the idea is no longer valid for the next county election. If that's what we're required of us. The senators, if there is a disagreement in the council hall, to be referred to by the government to work on the fact that all members of Congress are at peace with it and go through the council case with one accord, well, we will not resolve any issues from this chamber. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u139	Madam President. In the case we discussed here, I presented evidence and opposed moving election age to rural governments down to 16 years. I'm going to start by discussing just the argument back. Evidence can be given that in society there is a state of youth worship. This is especially evident when people apply for a job. This is how it is common to choose between two qualified candidates for a job in which one candidate is 50 and the other thirty is a 99% chance of choosing the 30. You don't see the experience of a man who's 20 years older. It is unmistakably true that a 50 - year - old person has more experience in various aspects of life than he is in his 30's. This discussion suggests that a person under the age of 18 does not have deep experience or discernment. In general, I think it is safe to say that 16 - year - olds have little interest in politics or rural politics. Yet, not everyone does. For one thing, my conversations with some young people of that age were presented. Many believe that this age group is primarily interested in personal interests, that they are popular and accepted among their peers, that they are successful, and that they are even the center of social life. Much more of this age group lives in parents'homes, studies, and with their parents, even though some work for a living. The danger exists that they are easily influenced by their parents as to which category to choose. The vote is a democratic responsibility, it's not a windowscrow, and it's not a toy. Not to be overlooked is the privilege of the election because it has cost blood, sweat, and tears to many groups of people to be elected. You have to earn it and respect it. We cannot take him for granted, and he must not be abused. Many irresponsible individuals have abused this important right. They need instruction on what it means to be allowed to choose, such as. in the county elections, training on the state level, activities of the local community, and responsibilities. When applying for citizenship, the person must have lived in the country at least seven years. We also require that the person conducts Icelandic tests and have some knowledge of national and national history. When it comes to receiving important rights, such as the right to vote, do we not need to do the same? Is it possible that the decline of election age will benefit some political parties better than others and that it can affect the individual groups or members of the council during this discussion, not thinking about young people, but having some fear behind them? There is, of course, evidence that a person who is not a legal person and who is not a adopted person should not have the right to choose. So, if an election age falls, won't the World Council have to change the legal age? Or at the Council to decide this matter? Is this perhaps something that belongs to a national law? 16 - 17 - year - olds are young people. However, their responsibility as a good citizen and as a member of society is fast approaching. Why don't we just let them enjoy being young until they're 18 years old? Next, let us examine the evidence by moving the election age down to 16 years. Young men 16 or 17 years of age have enough maturity to vote for rural control. This has been shown with studies including conducted at the University of Minnesota, U.S.A. This age group is fully capable of making informed decisions, as shown in this interesting study. It has also been shown that the knowledge of this same age group of people on social issues is non-inferior to that of the same age group. for those who are 18 years old. That view has been expressed, including In the United States, moving the election age down to 16 years is an important interest in democracy in general. There is also strong evidence to say that the vote is about their importance, not how interested the person is in choosing. 16 and 17 years of age are often involved in politics, helping to distribute election booklets, etc. A 17-year-old person may, for example, be Take another person, who is 18 at an elected location in May 26, U.S.A. The 18 - year - old passenger may be chosen, but the driver of the 17 - year - old must not. At times, we look at ourselves as separate from the young world and that it is so awesome that we were 16 years old. We are far more mature than young people 16 and 17 years of age. A 16 - year - old who decides to go to the workforce pays taxes and an answer. Is it not evidence in the discussion that the same person should have something to say about his answer, have something to say about who is chosen to rule in the community where he lives? Your community is authorized to keep your salary, but your partner is not allowed to hold the company's terms. At the time of the Vietnam War, in the United States there was a loud demand that if 18 - year - olds could be sent to war, even against their will, they should get something about saying who was running the country and making decisions about sending these same young people into war. That requirement eventually came to the fore. The Americans changed their constitution, and they moved the campaign age down to 18 years. In the United States, the same viewpoint was responsible for the demand for vote. In South Dakota, in the United States, 14 - and - 3 - month - olds may drive a car. They can drive where they can, but they can't choose. Are 16 and 17 - year - olds any worse voters than older ones? I'm asking. We witnessed anonymous abuses on the Internet at the hands of some politicians before the last total elections. Behind that ossuary were individuals with the right to vote. They are likely sufficiently mature to choose, even though their actions clearly testify to something else. This discussion often shows that youths 16 and 17 are not mature enough. When I was 16, I started high school and felt mature. Of course I wasn't, but I knew some things about politics. For example, I had a picture of Lenín in my room. True, the goal of not thinking about maturity was to be observed, for man would be the power of dictators and mass killers. I can assure you that there are many people with votes today who have not shown that they have the maturity to be with him, as I have mentioned before. Let us draw back to the reason that young ones are not allowed to vote because they are only choosing what their parents choose. To illustrate: Suppose a person who is just under 60 years of age has chosen, as his parents were when he was young and still prefers, according to the same category. I don't think there's any law against him choosing on that basis. It would be natural for him to choose correctly, one time like this, but that's another story. And for all the fun, I don't think this argument about parental influence can hold. Is it not true that youths strive to be somewhat at odds with their parents? The advantage of this group, 16 and 17 years of age, is that they go to political parties and those who volunteer for local governments, perhaps think more about issues related to this age group. Age and experiences will make us all more mature. For example, we become better parents with older ones and better employees. But I don't think we'll be any better voters with age. There is nothing new about the argument against choosing that the person does not have the maturity to do so. Is it not this way in this country that women had to fight for their right to vote, was it not said that they did not have the maturity to do so? Didn't they have to be 40 to vote first? Didn't our first senator, H. Bjarnason, say that the men hadn't listened to her in the first place? Sure, because she wasn't mature enough - the 40-year-old woman. My opinion of fate is that of old - fashioned thinking. I'm in favor of losing election age. On the other hand, I support our Middle Class proposal that the case will be referred to the government and received a careful and thorough discussion that I consider to be correct under these circumstances. I welcome this discussion and the interesting views presented here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u140	A respectable president. This is where we'll discuss a bill to correct a change in the law on the elections to the government. I'm here to express support for the conversion proposal made by Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppér, which reads: ▪ This law gains the value of June 1, 2018. Is that really in harmony with the changes I had made before, along with members of the committee? I want to come into my mind that this is primarily a matter of elections and not other rights. As noted repeatedly in the discussion, this is in good harmony with the United Nations Children's Convention and the presentation of various guests who presented the committee that it is normal for a young person to gain a degree of rights, to have the opportunity to take on responsibility progressively as they grow. At the same time, the managers and visitors before the commission indicated that gaining the right to vote includes the opportunity and right to use the right to vote, but in the same way, the obligation to be at a vote, which is in line with the fact that youths have different interests and that they have different degrees of development. Some have strong political views, while others are less interested in politics during this age, whether we think at the age of 16◯18 or in the age of 16◯30. I also want to emphasize that we in this platform are talking about opportunities and really the trust that we can express to young people of different ages because I know it, as they develop, can be trusted. I emphasize that we are approaching this issue from that point of view.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u141	A respectable president. I come up here primarily to illustrate the support of the new arrangement here, and I'm glad that we've come a long way to finish this matter. I also want to commend myself. A senator for coming into the matter at an end in this way but does not have much else to say on this matter materially. I think it's important, like what? paritaprevir The Birgir men of Þórarinsson came in earlier, that we trust young people, and that we are to follow this journey. But I don't agree with what. A senator says that we should send the case back to the executive's office, but we should keep it where it is now. That's why I'd like to encourage you first and last. Councilmen try to end the matter, so they vote for the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u142	A respectable president. Thank you. The answer is made by a senator who feels that it is very important for the General to decide on this matter. I believe it is important that we be able to handle such issues as this in the Hall of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u143	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a fine speech. There are a few things I would like to get in from my speech. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir. There were a number of points in the reviews and before the committees and in earlier discussions that are described as having serious doubts about the bill that is being discussed. I'd like to know what skeptics are. For the most part, a senator has felt that he should be taken into consideration. And perhaps in the process, what these key points are about the doubts, though they remain the best, and why they feel that there is no reason to consider them in a deeper, more detailed way. She came in to see that she just wanted to look at the matter narrowly, just this entrance rights, and not anyone else. True, though, a great number of comments have been made that describe a great deal of doubt. Which of them considered her to be the most successful?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u144	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. The skeptics that I feel were most important and, in fact, all the time involved with the matter, is the short time, if this had become a law for the earlier government votes, because there is much more to be developed in society before it comes to the first election, more than any government agencies have to do. The young group who will receive the younger vote for the first time will need a set time to conform to their rights and decide if it is something for each person, whether or not there is something for each person, whether he or she would like to enter into the situation and use the voting rights. That's a few months to a few years of thinking. It is the doubts I found most embittered in this matter. I believe that the time that allows for the next district election is sufficient, for both this discussion and for what the government needs to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u145	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. A point on the matter has been made that earlier in the discussion was to make up an issue of anonymous propaganda and so forth. One of the points that were specifically discussed at the early stage was how the communication between candidates and minor children would be promoted in a campaign. I have to admit, I'm now so simple that I'm not quite sure there's any solution. Does a parent need to be involved when discussing elections with the child? There were reviews that looked that way. It underscores the craziness of breaking up these rights, that candidates may fight children who are illegal and dishonest. Has a what? Don't a senator worry about that point?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u146	A respectable president. I'll thank the senator later. These views were not in themselves discussed in the reviews or the committee. However, they have often appeared at a council hall. Some of the guests who were able to respond werelittled, e.g. Parents would have an impact on the final decisions made by children. This is part of the opportunity to develop in the discussion over the next few years, i.e. In what way political groups can direct their information to this group.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u147	A respectable president. I thank the senator for an excellent speech and an explanation of the senator's position. A change has now been proposed to refer the case to the government. She's even. Supported by the fact that the matter is large in its scope, it needs a better outsider. By referring the case to the government for further implementation, additional opportunities would also be made to consider concomitantly related issues related to age, such as the driving test, the drinking age, self - control, and all of this that we know. I'd like to ask the senator if it would be wise to use this opportunity to refer the case to the government, along with the words that all of this should be considered in context so that after four years men have developed some general opinion of where these dates all should lie. There is certainly inconsistencies in choosing 16 years of age, driving a car at 17 years of age, buying alcohol at 20 years of age, staying at an 18 - year - old alcohol club, being president of 35 years of age, which may not be relevant. Well, you know, there's not a normal combination in this thing, at least, I think. I wanted to ask the senator if there could be no better way to hide the government from doing it in this way. Another is that if we accept the case and the law accept it, some years of work will be started, then the conclusion may have been that it wasn't right to go that way, that it was wrong for the council to agree to bring this into law. Then we will need to replace the law with new laws. Is that not the worst option if that situation arose?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u148	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. This is certainly the second best available option, the proposal that the senator discussed here. I'm not worried about what has been discussed here as inconsistencies in the courts. I think there's very good evidence that the rights are gradually built up. For some of these reasons, such as the age limit for drinking alcoholic beverages, other evidence regarding physical and mental development, is to be compared with driving vehicles such as automobiles. That's a sociological argument. I find this in harmony and in good harmony with the children's covenant that young people receive minor rights gradually. Another question asked by the senator was what? I don't remember what it was, then it's coming in later.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u149	A respectable president. What I was also asking about was if the unfortunate result was that it was wrong to set these laws, then we would have to cut them off. I can agree with that with what. A member of the body says that it may be wise to obtain rights in a certain step. Then I thought about taking part in elections, choosing people in our local democracy system to care for their interests, putting my trust in the candidate, putting their trust in what needs to be done in order to be able to choose, to say, "I choose this man, this course, this class. I wondered about maturity and all that I needed to do. A senator mentioned, if it really saw the lowest, the lowest, the best. Should we watch it like that? Would it not be easier to move the line above and say: " This is the big decision, so important, that people have lived a little longer in order to make such a decision? [[The president calls.]] I'm looking, for example. on driving test or booze and all of this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u150	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. This is the doubt we're always in front of when we set the law here, that we might be making a mistake. But those who are convinced that this is the right way, are the ones who are willing to support this bill. Young men gain the right to the Generals at the age of 18. In view of this, I feel no resistance that 16 years of age can choose to be a rural government and, in fact, normally, have the opportunity to influence their environment sooner than to participate in national elections.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u151	Madam President. I am one of those who have had deep doubts about the benefits of acting in the way that is being done and suggested in this bill. The argument is many, but the adjustment that has been suggested, to postpone drafting to June 1. This is exactly why I should conclude that we should slow down now, perhaps only use time for the next two to three years to determine a policy when it comes to elections, elections, and elections in general. It has been this way in the past that the Council has brought a measure of happiness to achieve a measure of relative peace, wide peace, of change in election law. Why is that? That's because it's one of the basic rules of democracy. Therefore, through history we have felt that it was important to develop and develop and change the rules and elections, but we do so in that way that we are as much as comfortable as possible, if not all. When this bill was on schedule, we started the 3rd. Just a few weeks ago, I reviewed a speech given by Benedikt Gröndal, one of our leading leaders, and one of our most successful politicians in recent decades, here in this hall, where he stressed the importance of being intervening in the games when choosing elected representatives, whether to the Council, to the government, or to the president of Iceland. In recent decades, we have been moving the election age down. I'm one of those people that says we might have gone a little too slow. That may be so. But I think it's better to go slower than faster or too fast. However, we have been granting more and more the right to select elected representatives in the countryside to the Generals. But these rights, of course, must conform to other rights. I don't see how we can break up the terms and the right to vote and the right to vote and vote. That's in the bill we're dealing with here. It may be the most important criticism I have of this bill, not necessarily that we are downcoming the election age because I agree in my heart that we should aim to bring down the election age, whether 16 is the right age, we can talk about it as well. At the same time, we must try to discern the effect of this and whether it is not right with me and many others that it is necessary to take the step and bring the age of self - control down at the same time - just so that humans have real self - control to take advantage of the right to vote that is being given them. We're not making sure of that bill. Nor are we making sure that the person who has the right to choose an agent has an uncircumcised right to volunteer to the position he is choosing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u152	A respectable president. I thank the senator for a fine talk, which, of course, was in accordance with the procedure he has presented in this case so far. I began to ask myself, " Why are we doing this now? ' It does not in itself serve any purpose. It's not an election for four years. It's not as good as it's gonna be now. But instead of trying to settle the matter, establish peace about the matter, tourists plan to drive it through in as much trouble as possible. I think that's amazing. I'm beginning to think that it's just a matter of being able to show that a certain group can succeed at the council. I don't think it's about it anymore. I think it's just a matter of getting paid behind the tents that makes it run out of business. I don't like it. There's no need to finish it now. The matter has been changed so that it will not benefit anyone, not for four years. I'd like to ask you what. A senator to see if there would be no greater chance of achieving a wideisation behind this case, i.e. to reduce the election age, by referring it to the government for discussion, to treatment, to suggest, to educate the people, to grasp all of them and possibly to reconcile them as well. A senator mentioned his speech, which is of utmost importance. There's something special that doesn't go together. Of course, it is even more odd that the age of self-election and the right to vote will not go together. It's very strange if we start thinking about it. As a result, I began to wonder why, on earth, this case was being run through. What for? Do those who want to finish that they make a lot of money out of it at the next district election? I doubt it. I don't know any better than research shows that it's the Independence Party that may make the most money to get young people to vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u153	Madam President. Why should we be doing this bill now? I don't know the answer to that question, but I think it's unreasonable, as I said in my speech. I think it's wise, I think it's interesting, and it should be desirable for every senator in this room that we're trying to achieve general solidarity over the changes we're making in election law. Of course, it is an example if we are going to make some changes in election law in much conflict. It would be an example for the future. We are setting a pattern, then, that it is possible and wise to change some guidelines when it comes to how we choose elected agents. I'm warning you. However, I wondered if the right way is to direct the case to the government. I have doubts about that. I believe that it is possible to make that decision here and unite that we will continue to win the case at the council, have custody of it. But there is something else that bothers me, and it is the reason for my criticism. I don't see that it's the right to give people 16 years' votes in the country election, but I don't mean to vote for a vote when it comes to the General election. You see, I want to go beyond this bill's transporters. But we also need to discuss honestly how a child's rights in Iceland are affected by a decline in election age and how we are involved in protecting the rights of children in Iceland. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u154	V.E.G. President. This is one of the things that need truly to be considered. A senator mentioned here. How will we hold our children in our arms? How will we hold on to those who receive this right so that when it comes time for these individuals to have the maturity and opportunity to learn what it is to have this right, how can we be sure? I can agree with that. I'd like a later answer to a question. A senator with doubts the right to refer this matter to the government, all right with that, I absolutely respect it. However, it allows us to deal with the differences in our system when it comes to becoming self - sufficient, buying alcohol, driving a car, etc. That'll give us a chance to do a full reexamination of the whole system. By referring to the government, it could, for there are probably some in this room who support it, take the case in their arms, and give it some kind of devotion, and present a Senate case for the next county election that would be so that men could join in. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u155	Madam President. You're right about what you're doing. A senator, of course, might be wise for the government to work in harmony with their issues. When do we have e.g. to reduce the age of suicide? What does that mean? What other law do we need to change? I think we need, for example. To see if this is compatible with the United Nations Children's Covenant, for example. I'm just gonna call the senator's attention on one thing. If this bill is approved, we'll make a decision that if kids 12 today will be elected in four years. One of the basics of the election is the availability of the candidate of the voters. [[The president calls.]] What are we going to do? Is there a decision to ensure the availability of prospective candidates in rural elections after four years that children who aren't even squared, what's more? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u156	A respectable president. Thank you. Óli Björn Kárason's senator for a good speech. There are things that I would like to come along to what he had discussed, to keep the matter in the custody of the council for further consideration in the coming years. I would like to know how he envisions that it would happen if such a course is capable. I think there's a lot of work to be done to find a way to get the work done, look at this whole thing. Like what? A senator has entered his talk earlier today as well as a few weeks ago when we started 3. Um., the odd situation is that of breaking up an election age and of self-destructive age, votes and votes. Unfortunately, I do not get it to walk in any wise way, when, in turn, I am concerned about how candidates and their youngest voters should act if this change is approved without any other rules being adjusted. For example, I have not seen those who speak for this matter at the Senate Hall speaking through the passage of adjusting the period of autonomic age to a decrease, except for the shortest. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, who has spoken clearly in that subject and has presented an excellent reason for it. I like to know how you're doing. A senator realizes that this continued work within the council might be performed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u157	Madam President. Of course, there are some ways. It could, for example. It is good to think that all members of the Parliament were united in making a decision to work on the case, that we could unite in the goal of re-election of the Constitution, and possibly also make changes in the Constitution because we do not reduce election age to the Generals unless we change the constitution. I believe that the presidents of all the councils here may well agree to appoint representatives of all members of the council who make it their goal to re-evaluate the campaign, including the election law. age, and whether or not we are going to reduce the age of independence because I can't understand it any more than that. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason, how it works to give men the right to vote, but don't give them the right to vote, as the voter thinks it should, or makes sure he has the right to a free individual. Of course, that's one thing that really bothers me when it comes to this bill. What bothers me too is the fact that people are going to pass such issues through incontroversies, and there is no disagreement. It's just a disagreement, and there's a matter of opinion that we're going to consider. If there is to be a disagreement with these matters, they are setting new guidelines on how the Allied Council will in the future live to change elections.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u158	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. That's exactly what I wanted to come into my second answer, the trick that's involved, to put an end to a change in the law of elections, in this much conflict. I think that must be unprecedented. Of course, local government election laws are made that do not need to change constitution as required, for example. Because of age criteria for general elections, but these are the local election laws and the transformation of them in a conflict - now people have to correct me if I'm wrong - they must be damned, and unfortunately just completely crazy, as they see me trying to change the exact laws like these in a disagreement. [[The president calls.]] There are plenty of legal classes that can be turned into differences. I've often talked about how to deal with and finish things and how to fight in politics, but I don't think that's relevant to any changes in election law. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u159	Madam President. I think we're gonna do what we're gonna do. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason is now quite a team in most places, although I would like to go a little farther than when it comes to giving more votes by lowering the election age and thus by self -willing age. I say, it's not by chance that when Benedikt Gröndal proposes a bill in 1965 that an election age will be reduced for 18 years, that is in his speech, not even twice, but the red thread that people give themselves a good time to discuss his proposal. There is no rush, and it is so important that people settle the matter, have plenty of time to think about it, and settle the matter. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I don't understand, when there are four years before the fall actually goes into effect, that people aren't ready to look at it together. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u160	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason for an excellent speech. I decided that the Senator spoke of the need to turn such laws into a broad agreement. I totally agree with that. He quoted Benedikt Gröndalur, who gave a bill on a similar subject in 1965. It became the law a few years later. In view of this, I'd like to ask the senator if we shouldn't, because I agree with him that we should be careful, to go further into it, and also to talk about driving age and self - discipline. I was trying to google here and, by permission of the president, would like to refer to a question that a 14 - year - old girl sent to children's emissary two or three years ago. She asks, " Won't you be a 16-year-old and an 18-year-old? An agent responds: On one occasion, children became 16 years of age, and the money was 18 years old. 1997 was changed so that the age of automation was increased for 18 years. Thus, people become both voluntary and high. The age of 18 is also called legal age. I'd like to ask the senator, " Shouldn't we be more careful and even discussing the driving age? ' The highest number of accidents on the road is among young people, boys and girls, aged 17 to 18.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u161	Madam President. A driving age in America is 16 years, it's 17 years here. The accident rate in the United States, 16 years old in the first year of a driving test, is the same as 17 years old during the first year of the driving test, I think tests show it. If we were to reduce the driving test age to 16 years, it is not likely to result in an increase in car accidents. It is the exercise that makes the Master, in these matters as well as others. It's been a few years since men made that wise decision, I think, that you can get permission to train at 16 years of age. Well, that's done well. This has no doubt led to a reduction in the number of serious accidents. When we talk about lowering the age of suicide - I can't escape the fact that there must be a link between election age and self - discipline - people must also wonder how it affects other factors that we love. You see, there was evidence that the decision was made here to raise the age of self - control to 18 years. The reason was that we wanted to keep our children safe longer. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u162	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for that answer. In that case, the experience from the United States is that there is no greater incidence of accidents, even though the driving test age is 16 years, that is, the master's exercise. But I just thought of it when we're talking about adjusting age to the various factors. We can agree that such major changes, such as changes in election age, need to be made in a wide variety of terms. That would not be the case if this change were to be accepted in our time by a change in motion from what has happened. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppér. That's why I agree with the adjustment I made. þm. Bergþór Olason recommended that the case be referred to the government. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u163	Madam President. I don't think I have to answer it. A senator but this: I have been able to reduce my election age. So I voted at the Independence Party meeting to lower the general election age, i.e. Also for the Generals. I was under it, in my part. That didn't mean much. There are differing opinions in the Independence Party, as I believe they are in the general category. But I find it hard to accept being set against a wall, as I think it would seem to be trying to do with this bill's donation, forcing me to lie down against a case that I agree with in many ways. I think there's so much finger broke and broken in the bill that it just doesn't work out. [[The president calls.]] When it comes to a fall in election age, I can agree with the Shippings of the bill. [[The president calls.]] But it must be consistent.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u164	V.E.G. President. We're here to discuss reducing the child's election age to 16 years, talking about it back and forth. Then there is a change in proposal and also a deduction motion from what has happened. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason. The check-in says: ▪ In view of the extent of the case and the viewpoints discussed in the discussion, it is appropriate to suggest that the bill be referred to the government so that time be set aside to prepare the matter properly. In view of what you have heard from certain men, I take to heart this report in the deliberation proposal. was quoted here in talks and primes since 1965, where Benedikt Gröndal spoke of the fact that we had to be careful about making decisions in such large matters. I asked the last speaker if we should go further and change our driving age. He didn't agree completely with that. But I've read it in the news that a lot of young people have accidents during the very first to the second year of their driving test. In fact, this has helped to reduce the number of young people after driving exercise. We need to be careful with the elections and change the law, if we can, in good terms. People who are 18 may visit wine - feeding sites, but they must watch the others drink alcohol; they must not drink alcohol until they are 20 years old. When I was young and was given the right to vote, one had to be 20 years old. I don't think I could really think about it at the time when I was 20 years old. I hear today's youths, the people I talk to, that they are not very interested in this kind of talk. It is one young person who is trusting to vote, but it has also come, as I said in a talk earlier today, strongly conclude that we should leave young people alone and allow them to become mature before they have a right to vote. They have this valid argument with the age of penitents and the age of law, so elections, that it is consistent, that no parent should be agreed that the child should be chosen. I don't feel that this case is finished, and I feel that it needs to be settled in a broad way at the Generals. We are to be proud of this, when and if the decision is made, that it was done contrary to groups at the High Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u165	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech is excellent. Hv. A senator said he was supporting a deportation proposal. paritaprevir Bergþór Oli's Ólason. I'd like a little explanation for a problem. A senator because I don't fully get the words of the deliberator to agree with the motion itself. It states that in view of the extent of the case and the viewpoints reported, it should suggest that the bill be referred to the government and, with the permission of the President, to the time to prepare the case properly. There is no mention of the great peace of mind. A member of the council came in with his own speech. It does not refer to what many people have. Senators came in, and I don't think I'm wrong. paritaprevir Sigurður Páll Jónsson is one of them, that there is also a need to examine a series of ideals in terms of age. I'd like to ask you what. A member of Parliament: Why is this not required in the contraband? When reading the deportation proposal, it does not mean that the matter should change, that it should be prepared better than it has been, in effect. In view of the problem. A senator speaks of the need to establish a broad agreement and that the matter should go back to the government and come back in here and be settled, I ask if there are any issues involved. Senator. It belongs, for example. We're on every case from the column. A senator, the Central Party? Will the members of the Central Party suggest that their case be referred to the government if it cannot be accepted here so that it can make a greater deal with them?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u166	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sir Óttarsson, Ottar's son Proppér for this counter-sponsored response. I can honestly say that if it's going to be accepted, it's like that. A senator proposes a change of purpose, so it will not be done in a broad way, so that's just said. That's my opinion. Regarding whether a matter should be referred to a government proposed by the Central Party Parliament and they wanted to pass, if it wasn't done in a broad agreement, I must now say that this case is now larger than that, so that the same can be true of any other matter. This is a big case, it's a fundamental matter, as I quoted earlier and other members of the council there. Many agree, and most, I think, that the matter needs to be settled. I don't think that has anything to do with this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u167	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. They came in that discussion -- I mentioned it in my previous answer, but I couldn't hear it. A senator himself would come into it in his reply - about what has been presented here today and actually at the earlier stage of the discussion, i.e. to reconcile the age on which young people obtained rights. I'd like to ask you what. A senator sees the need for this. And if so, I'd like to ask you why. A senator will agree with the United Nations Convention on Child Rights, but in Article 5. it is decreed that for age and development, children will enjoy an ever - increasing measure of rights. That's what I'm talking about. A senator disagrees with the United Nations Children's Convention on This? I heard why. One senator said that these views had been heard to leave the young people alone. That's why I'd like to ask, too. A senator about the position that exists today, see that children and young people gain various rights before they receive the right to vote, for 18 years. For example, they have all the resources and resources, they cannot tell them what to do with money, and at 16 years of age, children gain the right to register in religions, they can decide to have an abortion, and they can decide for health care. In other words, they can refuse medical care if they want to. And what? A senator spoke of this as being a very big case. Making a decision to reject health care can be an enormous issue, one can simply be a matter of life and death for the individual. And that right, we give 16 years of age. That's what I'm talking about. A senator resists it and wants to raise the age when young people gain these rights, in line with 18 years of election?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u168	V.E.G. President. So I'm going to come into what the Senator last mentioned, I have to admit that I didn't know it was under law. But if this is so... [[It's in the committee's opinion.]] Well, I don't really know how to answer that. I don't feel anything like this. I have to say right now. Regarding the United Nations Children's Covenant, it is certainly stated that they should be truthful, but linking it with the case we are referring to here is a little hurtful. But to reconcile age with law, money and election age, I'm afraid it should be harmonized only in the light of what I said before, and other members of Congress have said.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u169	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for a fine talk he gave earlier. There was, in effect, one thing that put me in more than another position in what he said, when he spoke, what I should say, the fact or the request, or would like for young people to be left at peace with propaganda and presentation, etc. This came to my mind that in the treatment of the administrative and monitoring committee of this case, we were contacted by a guest who discussed this very situation. The representatives of young people who came on the scene were interested in getting a presentation, but they did not want, as they themselves said, that politicians were getting in their school. There is one thing I was worried about and I still have, and that is the arrangement for such presentations. If this bill is legal, we're talking about the need to approach basic schoolchildren in some way. I wonder what. A senator has an opinion about how such presentations could be introduced. Well, it's not quite about this election age. When my children were six years old, at ◯den odide, they received a dingy covering brochure from the Young Roadfarers School. I have not been aware that some of these presentations have been in preparation for teenagers who are becoming 18 years old at the age of 16 to become law. I'd like to hear what you're thinking. A senator's opinion of how he feels it would be best to approach young people in order to introduce them to these rights and duties of the right to vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u170	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson for this answer. I can see it in such a way that it had to be there. There's been no discussion of that, exactly that call, in this discussion about this bill. It has to be said, as it is, there can be no discussion of these matters in school today except in some respects from certain sources. A couple because they were careful about this would be that education to young people would be even more effective in school. I mentioned just what I learned in a talk I gave here in other northern countries. In Denmark, a decline in election age for 16 years was observed in politics, politics, to this age group. In surveys it was estimated that this increased interest. Danes did not lose their election age for 16 years but increased education, propaganda can be said, and that even though they did not have the right to vote, their interest in politics grew. It was my thought, first when this case came out in the fall, to increase the interest of young people in politics. The more researched, the election age is bigger than that, so that it can be resolved.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u171	V.E.G. President. Yeah, I understand why. Senator. It was also evident in the treatment of such a fine situation. In the case of the Ministry of Education, a town in itself does not have any central material that can be sent to a core and high school. It seems to be in the power of each teacher how he or she introduces political activity. Somehow it struck me that, in itself, it would be much more desirable and normal for the school authorities, and then I'm talking about the Ministry of Education, getting involved with political parties, and getting their representatives to introduce politics to children and adolescents in school. Then I'm not talking sort of politics, I'm talking politics on a broad scale. As I say, it wasn't there when the election age was dropped to 18 years, so this in itself is nothing new. Before we take the same big step and fate as we talk here, I think it's really unfair that we teenagers are going to take part in political activity and choose if we haven't given them any information, I'm not going to tell you guidance, about the political state. And then I say again, not in political propaganda, not in a group of political innuendo, but in general information about the value of the vote. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to get some opinion. It's for a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-03-59.u172	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for his answer. I find it a little strange to hear the news, at least to myself, that representatives of the Ministry of Education said at a meeting of the Committee that there was no special training. Of course it should be. I completely agree with the senator in that. It should be fundamental that young people could walk into the ballot if they were to receive the vote of 16 years of age. There are far fewer people who have shown this interest, as has been observed repeatedly. That education should be regarding politics, not a class of predominantly ill - mannered education. In the fall of that same language, I related in a talk that when I was a teenager, I was one teacher who dared to discuss these matters, totallyetinal. But he allowed us to practice standing up and speaking. This stirred my nerves, but it was not followed until 40 years later when I volunteered to serve at Generals. There is good reason to teach youths about politics. They then form opinions as a result of knowing what this is all about and not just going into a cell and choosing something that Mom and Dad or some people tell them to choose. [[The president calls.]]
