ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u1	A letter from the Guðmundur Andri Thorsson and Silja Dögg Djög Gunnarsdóttir that they can't attend next week. So on Friday, November 2, at the General Assembly 1, a deputy of the United States Group's list in the Southwestern District, Margrét Tryggvadóttir. Today, on Monday, Ásgerður 5, takes place at the General Kristín Gylfadóttir. They have previously taken up residence at the General Assembly and are welcome to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u2	In connection with a meeting of the Norwegian Presidents, aside from the recent Council of Northern Congress in Oslo, President of the Norwegian Council, Tone Wilhelmsen Trøen, president of the General Assembly of the Norwegian Council gave the decision to the Council to the Council of the United States to celebrate the national sovereignty of Iceland. The gift is published in a book by the English translation of Iceland's Land Mines from Norway, by Þormóður Torfason. About 1700 C.E., this book wrote to Þormóður in Latin, while Gottskálk Jensson translated it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u3	December 1st. it will be an open house in the General Assembly, which has been 100 years since Iceland gained sovereignty. The president of the Generals and members of the Parliament will welcome visitors and give direction on the house from the day they arrive. 1:30 p.m. 18th
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u4	A letter has been sent by the following advisers where the request is made to provide written answers to queries: From the Minister of Justice for a petition on the deck. 214, on the premeditation of the drugs, from Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson. This is from the secretary of transportation and the secretary of state for the inquiry of the deck. 278, about the damage cars, from Birgir's Þórarinsson. From the health minister for the trim. 212, for the representatives of the country's country's governments, committees and advisers, from Anna Colb Kolbrún The Year's Árnadóttir. Finally, from the secretary of state for petitioning. 94, for advice and for temporary or limited work, from Sigmundur Davíð, son of Gunnlaugsson, to threshing. 111, about the presence of an army at the Cheflavour Airport, from Andrés Ingi Jónsson, and at the threshing floor. 150 on business pressure to Russia, from Karl Gauti Hjaltason.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u5	To answer, Prime Minister, Minister of Health, Ministers of Education and Culture, Minister of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, High Vegetation and Agriculture Ministers, Environment and Resource Ministers, Foreign Ministers and Ministers of Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u6	Mr. President. It is awe - inspiring when a team turns a race into a race in the last second. But what's it called when a consultant with knowledge, at least a fine glimpse of his position, does it do the same several hours before the economic collapse of tens of thousands of people during major catastrophes? Is it self - saving, immoral, or even cowardly? Recently, the hour published information on finance gymnasium at the highest level. Secretary of finance around the 2008 collapse of the bank. At that time, he was a General officer and was actively involved in the government's economic control of the disaster. New data show that these events were much higher than previously thought. V.E.G. In fact, finance minister has received the highest health proof. Prime Minister. The Prime Minister may have sought the opinion of the current Supreme Minister. A health minister, but hardly close. paritaprevir In the spring of 2016, Svandís's Svavarsdóttir, who said to a mistrust discussion, was allowed by President: It's unacceptable, except that the Ministers in the Panamas all step aside and the government depart. [...] Such classes are not meant to be in control. In answer to the highest. By permission of the president, she says to the hour: ▪ I have not been, and I do not agree with the view to maiming a systematic problem in unique moral issues that result from increased individualism and the individual politics. In the common language, a minister wants to look at the overall picture and fix the system but to leave those who abuse it. Of course we have to change the system, chief. Prime Minister, but she feels normal, suitable, and likely to build confidence in the work that the man who has authority over the category of languages, the man who orders e.g. in the management of the FDA, the person who is supposed to eradicate tax cover, has this past and this link?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u7	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry, as well as a translator for translating my words into common languages. I appreciate it. I appreciate it. Actually, there's a why. A senator asking me why I'm in the government community. This should be absolutely clear, and it is expressed in that answer as of reason. A senator quoted. The most important thing I think is that the issues take place in a quest that the current government covenant is about, and the results of the action being undertaken. As indicated by that response as a matter of course. A senator testified that we have seen and will see significant improvements in the local tax environment, reforms that began with a concerted campaign at 2016, was followed at the last council, and further initials are expected at this council. It's very important - I know what to do. A senator must agree with me - that we deal with the systematic problems we have seen building up, and he saw especially building up the economic crisis that built up from abroad and low taxes, and the financial system was using gaps that helped people to take advantage of such areas. Do I feel that political people are not well - off when it comes to business dealings? ' Yes, I believe that this is not a suitable option. That's why I'm very happy that after a collapse we, in great solidarity too, came up with rules on the Constitution of members of Congress. But I'm going to run this government team in 2017/018 anyway. Before those rules went into effect, did members of the council do so between 2004 and2008? Senators who have been reelected since four elections? No, I won't.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u8	Mr. President. I agree that there is a problem to be handled, but the purpose does not always sanctify. So, then, the lesson for the common people to take along in this matter is that moral rules are not of value to everyone in the community, but only to themselves. I must repeat the question: Is the current financial minister fit to lead this job? Is it likely that his superiors will increase their trust in politics and trust in the work being done today? My answer is an absolute no. In some other ways, you can think of this fine individual. No one was talking about the need for him to get out of politics. But making him a financial minister and letting him take this party, I don't think I'm gonna make any sense.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u9	Mr. President. Hv. A senator asks if the highest. A minister of finance is the best financial secretary available, especially by the regulations and laws designed to handle tax collections and taxes. So I don't know what to ask. In contrast, do we not have to look at the work done and the work being done? The policy of the government is totally at stake in these matters. [[Up front.]] There's a possibility that we at the General Assembly would agree to some improvements in these matters at the last council. There's been a delay at the Senate Constitution of this same highest level. Secretary of the budget is a prime bill that will appear in November, if a timetable is passed, which includes: there are considerable and extensive rules when it comes to taking control of nationalities in low taxes. Why don't we look at the results? I trust the highest. Secretary of the budget very well for them.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u10	A respectable president. Recently, issues concerning a so-called third energy package in the European Union have been clarified considerably. It's, for example. An excellent consideration of the matter in the latest Bounty publication, where this is taken up and quoted by experts such as Norwegian law professor Peter T. Örebeck, who clearly states that there is an Icelandic policy of energy policy and national sovereignty at high risk with plans for the induction of the third energy package. He gives a clear explanation of this and also mentions things such as that the European Energy Agency will receive national authority in Iceland, that the future of the Continental Action will also be put at risk, and therefore the national funds being proclaimed by the secretary of finance and other government ministers. Bjarni Jónsson, an electric engineer, agrees with Gunnar Þorgeirsson, president of the Union Garden Prayer, says that if it is introduced, parkmaker will almost be buried in Iceland, i.e. Culture of a domestic food market In fact, agriculture and food production will be critical. It's not time to go to the top. Secretary of State is taking the initiative that we won't be bringing in this third energy package and that Iceland will do so in its place? I'm not looking for answers like we've heard from the highest. A minister until now, to discuss this at some future time, and to consider. It is time to take decisive action now, for the sooner the government does, the stronger our situation. We've had a lot of crazy times, Icelanders, being too late to defend our interests in the introduction of a regular work from the EU. It is certainly time to eliminate the uncertainty of this matter and start working on Iceland through this induction.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u11	A respectable president. I don't know why I should come back and answer that question. A senator has special orders for the answers. It might have been closer. A senator sent me what to say here. Hv. A senator pointed out that we are often late. When I sat down in the state minister's chair, I began to take care of our interests in the EU because of the need. Since then, I've been working on it. Like what? A senator knows that the tools we had largely removed were those of the European Union involved. Why? paritaprevir When Sigmundur, the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, as prime minister, was hidden from my mind because of this and other comparable issues that are about to take place on two solid issues and other such matters that are not being discussed today, he did not initiate it again. It is in this government that this arrangement has been reinvented in much of its time and will be fully installed. I think it is extremely important that we consider not just the aspects of this induction but the other issues in which we are to protect our interests. Because of what? A senator mentioned that sometimes we were late is my opinion that we should have started that job a long time ago or as soon as we decided to stop the loss of applying for membership in the European Union. I have every right to work on these matters with the most qualified experts and others in our interests in the EEA, because I don't have to explain to a respectable president or a chief. A senator said that it is extremely important and that it had been started sooner.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u12	A respectable president. I think I'll have to accept the highest invitation. A minister to send his answers in advance, considering the answers or inadequacies he offers when asked a very simple question. He begins to recall that an application for involvement in the European Union was a great suicide mission, which I truly agree with the Minister, but that once we finally got out of the application that was not built and the minister is trying to build now. However, he cannot explain whether he is going to introduce this third energy package. He may need to build this system first. It's like government policy on the financial system. We are always waiting for some white book on the financial system to help her deal with the situation. And then nothing ever comes, and we go further and further in the opposite direction. We cannot, nor can we wait any longer to eliminate the uncertainty of this third energy package. So I ask the secretary very clearly, is he in favour of the introduction of the third EU energy package or not?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u13	A respectable president. Of the two here to talk, there was another waiting one. That's why. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson. He waited and waited. What we're doing is working to support our interest in the EEA. Hv. A senator does not have to wait for any white book. It's been published. Her name is The Gang for Good. In case of a moment. A senator talks to Uncle Google, and he puts in those words, he can find the report I encourage. A senator to read. For the third energy package and another matter, we know why. A senator was well aware that it was put in the spring council because they wanted to do it as well as possible. A number of ideas have come up, not just what we now found in the farm paper, but some things have come up. People are not waiting for a white book or any created thing. Humans are simply working with the most qualified specialists so that we can make the wise choices. But of the two of us, it wasn't the one waiting, that was why. þm. Sigmundur Davíð Gunugasson, in the position of prime minister [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u14	Mr. President. This weekend, in the lobby of the Assembly Hall, an event was held in connection with Iceland's sovereignty anniversary. There, Lavalsama was preoccupied to deliver the highest. Prime Minister Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, new milkfers that have been specially marked for the anniversary of their sovereignty. As we work here, we know that the rule is that the house is not used for formal presentation and that its boundaries are quite clear. This fine photo of prime minister with the milkfers were made good in front of President Jón's painting. When asked, the office manager of the Generals tells us that there is no goody show or a good - for - nothing advertisement but, above all, an event related to the event that has to do with the event. All right. Then I must ask: Is it possible for any company to prepare a new package for the State's anniversary to get prime minister to sit in place and thus advertise the products? It should be noted that Lavalsamaz is owned by a company of cow farmers and the Communication Society. The company is in a so - called competition with other dairy manufacturers and has been judged by competitive violations, last year. While this situation actually reflects a particular monopoly in a dairy market, which is not surprising in view of government policy, it is a matter of concern. How does it measure whether this is done for a market purpose or not? It is well known to use this method of marketing, e.g. with influence. The people who showed up to deliver the product were just the president of the Lazy Conspiracy, the good man, the market manager, and the market manager. But was this not for market purposes? The national television program has shown parts of the last few weeks called Sími - related. It reviews the post-marketing effects of drug influence on community media. In view of this, one must ask: How much does the prime minister cost, likely the largest authority in the country? Is it not really a secret advertisement? Would it have been possible to sign the movie # sharing, as the Navitator's firm has repeatedly pointed out that it is essential for consumers to discern whether or not there is a occult advertisement? I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister: What is the limit in this case, and does the prime minister consider it proper to set more rules on this?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u15	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator of interest. So this incident came to include an anniversary committee that serves on the grounds of the sovereignty anniversary - all parties at the General Assembly and including the representatives of the Councilship, the Class of the Habitat. A senator - requested that I accept the milk carton. The birthday committee - and I repeat, there's a representative of the party. A senator - has requested cooperation, not only with public institutions, but also with a free organization and business. I have understood the aims of the birthday committee, which, therefore, have been encouraged, not by the national property of the State but by the nation of all. a private company to celebrate. According to the information I have, Laxamsalan, in collaboration with a birthday committee, decided to put the education and learning of the full - time year 1918 on milk squares before Christmas. Then, on the part of my birthday committee, I was asked to accept these first four days. I checked whether this event was with the permission of the Generals, for we know that the General Assembly Hall has sometimes been used without permission for such purposes. They confirmed that it was, and this was done by the permission of the Generals. Since I have participated in countless events during this anniversary year of the Commonwealth, both private and private organizations, I did not see in itself any resistance to receiving this milk carton. Thank you. A senator for believing in the prime minister that he is among the great authorities in community media, but I don't know if it's right. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u16	Mr. President. I don't think it's necessary of the highest. The prime minister to show this modesty, for it certainly is a powerful influence, often in good matters, but, unfortunately, sometimes in bad cases too. That's just the way it is. But I have to say, I'm very upset about this answer: A committee is a suggestion, and it's okay to use the House. We're not talking about an event in a town, north, south, east or west, we're talking about the House of Congress, and we're talking about the use of the House of Congress as an advertising platform here this weekend. It was a cover-up, it's perfectly clear, and that's why I must ask: Will the prime minister not stick his fingers into it if this superintendent comes back with suggestions? We are, for example. with excellent beer producers all over the country. Will the Assembly Hall be a stage for the ad of sovereignty? Or should we talk about sovereignty? We have many excellent producers to make a fine baker, who can surely bakenots of sovereignty. Will the Capitol be a scene for advertising? And then who will be the answers from the highest. Prime Minister? That doesn't mean hiding behind the committee. [[The president calls.]] If such a request comes back to the highest level. Prime Minister, what will be the response? Shouldn't there be some frame around it? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u17	Mr. President. I'd like to reiterate that I'm not hiding behind the committee at all. I just thought I should mention it because I felt that I could discern the first words. A senator may not have known that this request came from the commission where her representative was sitting. I simply reiterate it to the presidents of the council members to study the fine work that this committee has done this year. I told you before that there were countless events in the country all I've been doing. I think this committee has done quite well with the celebration of the State anniversary, and her contribution has been to enable people all over the country to participate. In terms of the use of the Assembly Hall, I must make a quick suggestion. A senator picks it up at the Council Presidency Committee, which makes such decisions and aims toward them. I'm totally ready for such a conversation at the moment. A senator and others on how we use the Assembly Hall and whether we want to set such more specific rules. I just want to reiterate what was said, that this was done by permission of the Council's Board of Overseers to take the initiative of the World Committee of Birthdays.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u18	Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Child Protector about a story this morning that revealed that one year old child had been denied a living permit rather than the parents. The bottom line is that the parents have a living permit in Iceland as students. They have such a baby in Iceland. Of course, if they had entitlement on any other basis, the child would have a living permit as long as the parents were living. But know men, because they are students, the child is not allowed to live. What happens then? What happens is that your child is not entitled to social and welfare services in the country according to the rules set. As we look at the law more closely and examine the UN legislation on the rights of the child in Iceland and must follow, the child has this right. If there's been a mistake in foreigners and the child doesn't have the right to a certain service, the law about the child's rights is embellished because the child's rights are right while he's inside Iceland's border under the law and agreements we've agreed to. Yes, the law and the baby have a right to do this. It's just some hole that the baby has fallen into and is now out of place for one year. Isn't a minister going to get the baby up and shovel into this hole?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u19	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry. Children's issues are important, and the right standing of children in general is important. In this unique matter, I don't have all the volumes that are exactly downtrodden, so it just needs to be examined. I'm good at it. A senator will direct me as a minister, that this should be considered. However, I would like to point out that this seems to be a rather prior legal hearing because it is a foreign law. I know there is a review of foreigners, including... The factors that concern children and their status must be in harmony with. As soon as I have a positive view of this matter, I know that a minister of justice has been considering similar matters too, perhaps it would be right for me and the highest degree. Let's just look at it together. I think she's gonna be good at it. This tip has come up and we'll be looking into this case, thank you for the tip.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u20	Mr. President. Thank you so much for that. That's all I expected. Then all I want to do is express support to the minister of the case and warn him. He may, of course, bear in mind that these are laws under the Minister of Justice, but the fact is that a child is being denied to have his right carried out by Icelandic law on protection and welfare, so I don't believe that it will only be fixed. It's a hole the baby's stuck in. I don't believe that men are going to fix it because it's under the law, and if it's not corrected, what the United Nations Children's Covenant says is being neglected by permission of a president: ▪ What is best for a child must always be put in place when public or private social institutions, courts, governments, or legislators take steps that concern children. This can't be any clearer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u21	A respectable president. I just want to say the word. A senator, the right of a child is extremely important, and if there is a gap in existing legislation and it needs to change, we need to make adjustments. As I said before, I hope I can record this case and I'll take it up at the highest level. Minister of Justice. Hopefully, we can work something out together. It is well - known that in many laws, there are very little gaps we need to cover, and this may well be one of them. Then we need to look at it and cross it and close the gap. I just agree with what. A senator that it is important to do so, and we will only do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u22	A respectable president. Lately, I've had a lot of people's tips on impairment. The latest example is a single mother who made the folly of taking out her special savings to pay off debts, to be better at home, to get her children to school. What happened then? Yes, the special savings money is taken at a price and viewed as income, it is also used to reduce other benefits. I ask, " How long will such deliberate financial violence continue? ' Is it proper for us at the council to agree that we will stop caring for the strength and nothing but doing nothing? Clearly, the former government and the present government have maintained this economic violence deliberately and deliberately. I ask them, " Why on earth are they paying for it? ' Why is it, in effect, allowing the special savings to be used to steal from the microchip again? We must be able to accept here and now begin to stop such incredible violence and against people who are so weak that they cannot protect themselves. Because this is done a year later. They don't realize that it's losing a lot of money, money they need for food and medicine. I ask the minister: "When will he see that it will be taken away? " Next year, next year, next year, or when?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u23	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. We're gonna go for a second. A member of this chair has previously discussed the decrease in general, whether because of the circumstances. A senator mentions and attaches to special property savings, employment or other factors. The government intends to disband a cent in front of a dollar. It is estimated that in the next year according to a budget bill currently produced by the Parliament, 4 billion will be estimated from January 1. I have said so in this chair, and I have also publicly said that the funds will be used primarily to reduce the deterioration of the system so that they will get the best of the worst in this group. It's January 1st. If the budget is approved with 4 billion inside, it will begin to organise how we use our resources to get them to the best of this group. It will be the first and last to view the decline and other factors as a interest organization, the National Institute of Destiny and Development, under emphasis. I've been preaching and I'll be working on that. My answer to the inquiry is: January 1 can be expected to be a change in which 4 billion will be spent. When? Yes, there are changes to come. January 1 we will see changes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u24	A respectable president. I thank the social and equal minister for that answer in part because I can't make it. I don't understand this kind of language. As a result, are you saying that you feel a little less guilty or that the council feels a little less guilty and that it is all right to continue to harm sick and injured people, to deceive them financially? We demand that this be corrected. What do people with specialties do? Is it not to have something to allow for e.g. Help yourself in your old age, if you're desperate? Is it the only class that can't be used separately? Is it the only class that can't be strengthened or anything because everything is removed? When it is said that it should only withdraw a tiny amount of 4 billion, I want to see it as soon as possible on January 1 next year - and we're quite ready to do so, I'm sure the council is ready - that it will be put into this 12 billion or whatever it takes because it's already taken of micropiers in this context. It's time to give the money back.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u25	A respectable president. In progress, the social security system is being reimbursed when it comes to micro-energy pensioners. These include: Discussing how to reduce the degree and extent of impairment. According to the budget bill for the next year, which is now in the development of the Council on a budgetary committee, and I think it's planned to discuss 2. By next week, there is a suggestion that 4 new billion will be used to improve this group's status. They'll be even. used to reduce impairment. The Senate's decision on budget must be clarified later in this month or the next month, and before January 1, the Department of Social Affairs will set up a Regulation aimed at determining how these funds should be spent. This work will include reviewing work on the ongoing social security system and a total with Iceland's Corning Community and Developmental Fund.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u26	Mr. President. It is four months before Britain officially leaves the European Union, March 29. Between the time and the end of 2020, there is a waiting period in Britain that can include new to negotiate free trade agreements with other countries. Such free business contracts, however, can never be valid until January 1, 2021. Britain is one of our most important business countries. 10% of our total shipment goes to Britain, 15.5% of sea products, and the ratio is actually higher when we go to cod, less than 20%. It is about 50 billion a year in freight export, but our service income from the British is also huge, some 80 billion. There are nearly 12% of our exports on a total of services. Therefore, how important it is for us to be able to ensure that a free trade deal with Britain will ensure that not only our interests are in Britain but also the British people who do business with us in Iceland. That's why I want the highest. Minister of Foreign Affairs according to the situation in this discussion or in the financing that has taken place with the British government, the time frame he makes, and whether there is no hope for a vacation agreement to become valid on January 1, 2021. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u27	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. Hv. A senator refers to the obvious, how important it is for us to ensure the future business arrangement and our relationship with the British. Britain is our second most important business country, and much less so. Hv. A senator mentioned many numbers that show how important it is that we remain in a different relationship than we are now. Then I'm referring to business, but it can also be pointed out that Britain is one of the countries with the same streptical interests as with Icelanders. So it is obvious that it is important for us to work together with them and with other neighbors and our allies when it comes to security, environment, Arctic, and most of our international affairs, I'm not talking about in human rights and so on. Hv. A senator gave a good report on the situation. The British can't begin to negotiate until, first of all, April 2019. However, we have not been able to sit in wealth, and since I took up the seat of a foreign minister, and in both governments, people have always been preparing for all the stage shots that could arise, whether it will be a contract with the EU on passage, which we will be able to apply in some way, or without a contract. The reactions we have received from the British government have been very positive. It was a pleasure to hear e.g. May May, who met several days ago at a meeting with the prime minister of Iceland, the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir. There is no evidence that a contract between us and the British will not be reached. [[The president calls.]] But I make it a rule never to celebrate until it's at the finish line. We don't want to see a bigger business than we have now. [[The president calls.]] We'd like to see better and closer together.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u28	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister well clear answers. I think I can speak for most people, if not for all, in here when I say that we will support him at all times when it comes to setting up a vacation deal with Britain. I think that's what we're interested in. I've spoken for myself that we would make free trade zones here in the North Sea with the United States, Canada, Greenland, Faeroe Islands, Norway, and United Kingdom. I think that's a fascinating prospect. But the opportunity to improve communication with the British when they have left the European Union is great and should be used. I'll be in the lead, supporting the Minister to achieve a favorable agreement that is good for both the British and us Icelanders.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u29	A respectable president. Hv. A senator here referred to other countries, so important that we continue to have close and intimate relations with them. It's obvious, with more emphasis on the North Atlantic now than it's been for a long time, that it requires increased cooperation between these countries as a dog. A senator referred to him. We've been working on it, and we'll continue to do it. Hv. A senator also referred to the seabeds. Like many other nations, the British have looked to our fishing system. They are now, amazingly, getting their freedom of business, and they are again allowed to make their own business agreements, freedoms that we obviously have, and are being controlled over their fish resources. They have had neither of them in the EU like those nations in it. It is noteworthy that the Icelandic sea route is the only marine route in the OECD states to bring net taxes into the national industry and to be sustainable and that is one of the things the British have considered in our discussion. [[The president calls.]] We will have to work with them, along with our neighbors, when it comes to fishing and, in the near future, especially beach - fishing fish, along with other things.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u30	Mr. President. It is not later a good thing to have a special conversation at the Generals' Hall on Security and Defense when Trident Junography, the most extensive military exercise of the past few years on the grounds of the Atlantic Community, has just ended in Iceland, the North Atlantic Ocean, and Norway. It is not only this unique military exercise that prompts us to discuss the security and defense issues here at the General Assembly but also the conditions that have been developing in the world; a worsening outlook on the international security field, a greater insecurity in the relations of major powers, their threats between the use of nuclear weapons, and the continuing harsh communication of the Western West with the Russians in the East - something that unmistakably reminds us of the cold years that none of us could have anticipated would be relighted in one way or another in our countries of the world of 2018. In this situation, a clear vision is needed. Iceland's policy of security and defense needs to be clear and specific. Of course, changing status and changing power balance between the world's most powerful countries, especially because of the geographically and equally social state of Iceland - and perhaps even further - because of our international position as an independent nation. Six months ago, in discussions with foreign affairs in a financial program, I expressed my serious concern that there was a significant direct increase in money and a large proportion increase in Iceland's contribution within NATO to secure Iceland's defenses for the next five years. This large increase - three times in relation to the financial plan ahead, and that's not a small one - needs a much more detailed discussion during the council than has been done. I hope that we can use this discussion to do this more than six months later, because we have to discuss it in an open and honest way if the situation has become so, when it comes to the military importance of Iceland in the North Atlantic Ocean, that the Atlantic Community, in agreement with the Icelandic government, feels that it is necessary to increase the amount of money to ensure Iceland's defenses. Publicly and honestly, it needs to be discussed in 2018 that we are now supporting the temporary presence of foreign troops in Iceland, as shown in the joint declaration of Iceland and the United States since 2016 - and this increase in funds clearly indicates a continuation of that event. Similarly, we need to be able to discuss these manifestations, such as the new administrative center of NATO's military action set up in Norfolk, U.S.A., for some reasons because of the reorganization of the Union's military system because of changing circumstances and increasing the communication of the Icelandic government with the naval government of the Atlantic Community. We must agree that all of these changes, which will take place in the light of the growing military importance of the North Atlantic, and hence Iceland, by the opinion of NATO himself, need to be discussed on a judicial level. Mr. President. Iceland has a national security policy adopted in November 2015. A few days ago, the first report on its implementation was published. The current policy report was an Iceland risk assessment report. When Iceland's national security policy was submitted to the General Assembly and finally adopted in November 2016, a new risk assessment of military threat had been made in the European Safety Environment. According to one estimate, the threat of northern military threat was considered to be limited. But with the scope of national security and military presence in Iceland and more money for that group, don't you think it's time to put up with a new risk assessment of a military threat that may or may not confront us? I suggest that this risk assessment is not presented in the sealed secret rooms of a special National Security Council but will be discussed in a public field. Mr. President. In 1st. Iceland's national security policy provides a clear basis for ensuring the widespread security benefits of Iceland with active international cooperation and peaceful solution to issues, disarmament, respect for human rights and legal rights, equal to sex and the struggle against inequities, hunger and poverty under control. It's a very beautiful sentence. How, though, have we been successful in fulfilling these beautiful and good promises? How on earth can we fulfill Article 1? Our national security policy at the same time as we vote on the United Nations, in July of this year, against a new agreement to ban nuclear weapons? In that case a 122 states voted with the treaty, and it was accepted, fortunately, but Iceland voted against the treaty. ICAN, who received the Nóbel Peace Prize last year, may have been correct about Beatrice Finn when she spoke in an interview a few days ago that as a member of NATO, Iceland is part of the nuclear - control system? That Iceland is part of a group of states that are silent or included in this case and allow the conditions that sustain nuclear weapons in their name? Can it really be that Iceland isn't meeting 1.g. His own national security policy? [[The president calls.]] At least I agree with the Commission of ICAN, who says Iceland needs to take a stand. Would the government want to win a world without nuclear weapons or be an accessory in this new arms race?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u31	A respectable president. I'd like to thank you for calling for this discussion. The national security policy approved here at the General Assembly is our guide in security and protection. It also includes active foreign policy, protective policy and public safety and therefore covers overall security and protection issues. I encourage all members of Congress to study a recent national security report on the implementation of policy. The country's cornerstones are under the policy of the national defence agreement between Iceland and the United States from 1951 and its involvement in the Atlantic Community. At that time, the international security and protection cooperation has increased, and consultation with neighboring countries has increased. Iceland does not have military forces, so it is participating in all defense working together with a civil-based coalition and cooperation state. Aggravated international security prospects and a changing European environment have called for the increased environmental activity of the U.S. Army and other treaties across the North Atlantic. Defense Training Trident Junography makes it clear that our alliance, and indeed North countries outside the Community, feel strongly that there is good reason to provide greater safety in the North Atlantic. In addition, Iceland has promoted disarmament and arms restrictions at the United Nations and within its contracts. An example of this is our common precociousness with the Irish. a year for the implementation of a missile monitor system. We work closely with other northern nations, and we are among the countries of the Atlantic Community that give priority to disarmament. A recent Atlantic Community conference with fellow members of the European Union, here in Reykjavík, 29,30. October, we reflect these emphasis. In addition to traditional defenses and disarmament, there has been an emphasis on building knowledge and defenses against terrorism, organized crime, and Internet threats. The Ministry of State comes to this work based on employment, institutions and private partners, as well as international cooperation. Increased activity in the North Atlantic and ability to react by others is a consequence of the altered environment of safety. Thus, it is fundamental in national security policy to foster wide security in international cooperation based on close ties to peace, security and development, respect for human rights, and international law, and peaceful solution to issues. I sometimes say that respect for international law is our sword and shield. In their shelter, we have won our greatest victories as a nation. Thus, the greatest concern that we have criticized is the violation of international law. For example, there are violations of the humanitarian laws of Syria, the use of chemical weapons there, and in Britain, and the capture, and the inertia of Russia's indentation in the Crimea that we have condemned and met with various controversies. Then we will take our stand against the crime and loyally support the work of the international criminal court. We always speak for peaceful solutions to issues, whether in Syria, Yemen, West Zohar, or Palestine. I did, for example. in my speech at the UN General Assembly earlier this fall. Iceland's voice makes a difference. It can make a difference if handled properly. We have seen this clearly in our activities at the UN Human Rights Council, where we now sit. Perhaps the most subtle case is that even though it is still a work to be done, human society says that our language in the Philippines has had a clear effect on improvement. In our first session earlier in the fall, we have made our stand manifest in urgent matters, such as the war in the Yemen, persecution against the Mormons in Myanmar, the situation in Syria, Venezuela, Saudi Arabia, and Iran, as well as the rights of queer people, sexual equality, and the rights of the elderly. In the following days, I will submit a third Iceland's national programme for implementing the UN Security Council on Women, Peace and Security. We place much emphasis on the increase and importance of women's involvement in peace systems, including those in the United States. through the United Nations As rightful University of the United Nations here in Iceland The government has decided to increase Iceland's contribution to developing and humanitarian work over the next few years. In turn, a new development team that is now on the Constitution has special emphasis on the structure of social infrastructure and work in behalf of peace as well as on human rights and equality. In the international world, we work hard to promote the sustainable use of natural resources, which are the sole basis for sustainable development and peace. It should be noted, then, that the Icelandic government has set up an ambitious strategy for noncarbonization, our largest contribution in combating climate change. [[The president calls.]] In accordance with the change in the environment, the budget's protection budget has increased substantially. Our contribution is always civil, the nature of a matter, but we as a free and sovereign nation for 100 years must contribute to our own safety and protection. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u32	Mr. President. We can say that since the war of the first war, the human race has shown some ignorance when it comes to producing a killing machine. And now it's so time that we can easily risk all life with their bait. After we realized this, e.g. During the attacks on Nagasaki and Hiroshima, a large proportion of the security and defenses have become involved in maintaining some kind of balance of terror. We have not given sufficient attention to other preventive measures. In fact, another visitor has sneaked up on us while we've been busy with this, you see, the climate problem. We face three intertwined challenges: poverty, war, and global warming. None of them will be defeated unless all three make it at once. There is no other way than international cooperation. It will not be done by building walls or braking chests and showing alleged opposers their teeth. This is especially important, now that elements, even governments in our part of the world, continue to see the best interests of dividing and delinquency, and think that they are best exposed by isolation policies. We must take a very firm stand against it. The world's quality is simply divided too unevenly. While half of all children live under extreme poverty and many do not receive education or clean water, while people are discriminated against by skin color, sex, or sexual orientation, we simply have a very long way to land. Thus, we Icelanders are to give priority to issues such as sustainable use, disarmament, peace process, human rights, women freedom, combat inequities, hunger and poverty, and ensure economic and social stability. Mr. President. There is no other way, and we, the richest nations, have very much responsibility.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u33	Mr. President. I want to thank you for this discussion. It's a very important subject, and I especially want to thank the advert, okay? paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Bryfjörndóttir. National Security Policy for Iceland was adopted at the General Assembly on 13 April 2016 in the form of a synonym and is the first time from a republican institution approved by the General Assembly of National Security. In fact, it may be asked, " Why have such policy workers not been started long before? ' In effect, the debate was about the defense team's presence at Keflavík Airport and whether there was a fighter during security policies. The definition of what constitutes security has been changing, reaching more factors. Governments have a rich obligation to define possible threats so that they can be dealt with with with with appropriate and organized measures. One of the threats and threats that we face in recent years is false news on the Internet, false news focused on special states, or on national interests. This special threat is not mentioned in national security policy. It is important to improve, in my opinion, the review of the policy to take place after two years. I discussed this new threat here at the latest council. Secretary of state. These are news reports of a wide variety of ways, and they often share in the fact that their purpose is to influence interests, domestics and abroad, the Kingdom to which they are concerned. They can become business interests, elections, and the image of the state outside, to name just a few. In the northern part of the world, governments have progressively countered the influence of such news by establishing special teams who have the responsibility to find such news, especially in communication media, and respond to them. Fighting false news is national security and a vital international issue of interest. [[The president calls.]] A case with Icelanders must be taken seriously.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u34	V.E.G. President. I would like to thank the advocate for this need for this discussion. Since the establishment of the Atlantic Community in 1949 Iceland has been a member of the Member States. Thus, the Member States and its defense agreements with the United States have been the cornerstone of national security and protection throughout this time. Cooperation with our closest alliances and friends has made it possible that Iceland's defences have not been too high. As a member nation, however, we cannot be merely part of the recipient's role. Rather, we are required to share in a broad cooperation on the scene of the Community and do our part in various ways. We, the Icelandic people, are certainly sharing in the activities of NATO on the basis of a lack of military force involved in political activities, in the operation of defense of the Community in Iceland, by funding and by sending civil experts to work by the Community. The fact that we were to accept national security policy in 2016 was a very important step because it has been a light light in Iceland's cooperation in the area of security and protection and Iceland's involvement at the Atlantic Community and the two-sided national defence agreement between Iceland and the United States since 1951, as I have come before. We need natural boundaries. We're a small nation in the big context and at the council of member nations, the NATO Council, our emphasis has been on women, peace, and security, we've had our priorities at every hearing in that assembly, even though I don't sit there right now. We are looked upon as a nation on equal and environmental issues and there I believe we should be leading, and I hope it will go by a fine minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u35	Mr. President. When faced with threats, we need to consider two factors: how likely the threat is to be severed and how devastating it will be if it becomes real. It is similar with the threat of existence that cannot happen and the harmless threat that happens definitely, that no response to them is needed. There have been some of these threats, which vary in severity and odds. These include electronic attacks in Iceland, which are not just very likely but have already occurred. They are varying in severity, most of which are not very serious in national security. But the upper limit is quite high. I think this is one of our biggest national security threats and no beer-grunts will save us from such a disaster. The comparison of missiles is extremely unlikely. The emphasis on such threats is at best a waste of time, since our defense at the moment is in complete harmony with the possibility that they may actually become a threat to reality. NATO's wrath is a powerful shield for us. Then there are climate changes that in the traditional sense may not be a direct national threat but may lead to serious national security and will likely lead to serious national security problems. It is important to understand that climate change is not only a result of present and unsatisfactory attack by mankind on their own planet, which will lead to the death and suffering of hundreds of millions, but also the greatest threat to the civil rights of people we know at present. Keep in mind that if cities such as Dacca, Miami, Rotterdam, Dubai, and Manila go to the sea, the world will see refugee problems that can hardly be understood. The effects on the world's economy would be dramatic, the effects on our quality of life would be profound, the effects of the effects of the legal system, the welfare system, the civil system of all kinds would be vast, but the effects on our national security are now fairly uncertain. This need to be addressed, since an average increase in the surface of the sea is estimated to be 1.2 m in the coming decades.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u36	Mr. President. I appreciate the advisor, huh? paritaprevir Róka Brynjólfsdóttir Bryfjörðurdóttir, this important discussion of security and defense, and thanking the minister of the great and pointed speech. I am pleased to have the opportunity here as chairman of the group of Falcons to emphasize the direction of the foreign party. In a resolution adopted at the U.S. National Assembly in September. says, by permission of the president: THE majority of the people support the leading cornerstones of the Icelandic foreign policy involved in the United Nations, active participation in Norwegian cooperation, and the membership of Iceland's membership in NATO. I would like to emphasize that with our involvement in NATO, we can continue to contribute to the security of Europe, as the Community has achieved for nearly 70 years. In this regard, I welcome more recent NATO practice in the north, but decades have passed since such practice was last performed. Then it should be noted that NATO, only NATO, guarantees the inestimable involvement of the United States in Europe's security. Unity, alertness, and force of NATO ensures safety in Europe as necessary, including Following the intervention of Russia in Ukraine and the worsening international relations that concern us even though Iceland and I have many good experiences in mutual communication with Russia and its predecessor. Especially in this context should we be concerned about the safety of our friends and allies in the Baltic States, who rely on NATO and the United States to ensure safety in uncertain situations.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u37	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Róka Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjörðurdóttir, the Aggressor, for bringing this matter up, security and defense. I will only look at that matter in a narrower sense, not in the wider sense. At the same time, I'd like to thank the highest. Foreign Minister for, in my opinion, a good answer. But I want to agree with what. The perfunctory about the need to discuss these matters more often, the Senate, and across all classes, taking advantage of every opportunity to do so. I strongly support what is presented in the Constitution of the 2016 National Security Guide. I'd like to state that not all classes are members of the National Security Council and that I'd like to object specifically. It is important that all democratically elected powers have access to it and sit in the National Security Council today. That's not the way it is. I'd like to encourage the highest. Advertisers to promote such changes, especially in increasing solidarity and understanding among all elected representatives here at the council in this regard. It's a huge deal, and we need to take a closer look. I am tired to point out that any step that we Icelanders have taken in international affairs - whether through the NATO, EEA Convention, the United Nations, the EFTA community - has been taken to strengthen the country's sovereignty. It has strengthened us. The second issue is how we are going to be participants. I am a firm advocate of being realistic, that we realize that our peace and freedom are not free because someone else is watching over us. We too must shoulder responsibility. The government must guarantee the security of the nation, and it will be done in full cooperation and in the full involvement of international Icelanders, whether through NATO or by other important organizations.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u38	Mr. President. First, I'd like to agree with those who have spoken about the importance of talking about the security and defense issues as well as national security policy here in this council hall. I have often felt that such discussions were overcrowded in NATO and the United States. That is why I am very happy to hear the sounds heard in this discussion as others - even larger, I think - threats that confront us are mentioned on our names. In fact, they are referred to in our national security policy, but there are all factors that can relate to the climate change, such as the risks of various natural changes or natural and food security, which can be put at risk by climate change. The Internet security here has also been mentioned, and it can be of great importance to our inner community. I like the idea of the discussion coming on to these things. I also worry about how these things are happening in international context because this is what I think the world should be dealing with. Sadly, the discussion is often in the traditional emphasis on military matters. I think there's a good reason to worry about the treadmill of a speech. Of course, one of the last things that has ever happened is a statement from the U.S. government that she plans to cancel the agreement on intermediate rockets that I think would be a huge setback. [[The president calls.]] As a result, we Icelanders have a privilege of defending in the 1986 Cape Summit. [[The president calls.]] I would like to remind you that in a global sense we need to speak for peace and disarmament and protect the disarmament covenants made.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u39	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the gift of speech. paritaprevir Resa Brynjólfsdóttir Bryfjordsdóttir and the highest. Minister of Foreign Affairs, Gudley of Guðlaugur Þórðarson, for this vital discussion here in the chamber. It is obvious that there is a greater need for discussion on foreign, security, and defense matters. Not only do they need more space in the social discussion but they also need more space here at the General Assembly. We are constantly reminded how important it is to have knowledge and understanding of security and protection in this country. This is true of the administrations, the politics, the educational community, and the general discussion. The situation in international affairs is often complex, and there are a number of issues that are more important to us than before. There are reasons why we may not always see. The changing world's security environment includes putting priority on safety and protection; the work of National Security Council, the cooperation of the Northern countries, increased contributions to the seminary, and other aspects of it. Of course, NATO has even cope with changing world conditions by turning their attention and water to our ever - increasing extent. We have also increased our contributions to defense and have to continue on that path, focusing on increased participation in civilian activities within the Atlantic Community but the financial laws that carry it in line with Iceland's national security policy. Controversy on these matters is a key factor. Like other European countries, our active participation in security is important and there we can contribute much to it. A respectable president. Respect for international law and international cooperation is also an important factor in Iceland's foreign policy. We have stressed that Iceland is a advocate of respect for international law and that human rights are respected. We've been reluctant to speak up like the highest. Secretary of State came in earlier. Similarly, we have acted on equality. It's a pleasure to see that there is political solidarity here at the General Assembly that Iceland is in the lead when it comes to equality, not just in this country, but all over the world. That's as important a part of Iceland's foreign policy as any. But I'd like to mention at the end: Iceland has the same way of representing the world as a powerful advocate of free business. [[The president calls.]] Clearly, the world's growing prosperity over the last 200 years or so is largely based on voluntary transactions. Free trades are not self - centered, and they are constantly threatened, whether by war or by natural disasters, and especially by political differences. [[The president calls.]] Free countries such as us rest largely on free business ventures, and we are to be on the lead in a discussion of free trade between countries anywhere in the world.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u40	Mr. President. I appreciate the gift of speech. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Berry's daughter for this important discussion. I will use my short time to discuss Internet security. One of the priorities of Iceland's national security policies is to promote online security through continued development of its own abilities and cooperation with other countries. We Icelanders must work together with a local university that educates the experts in this field and enables our university students to train, advise and cooperate on our behalf, with other countries on Internet security. We also have a good partnership with NATO in these materials and with the North countries, and we are much further sustained at the Council of Northern Congress at dawn. But to share in further cooperation and other activities, we have lacked highly educated people. The Internet has set in motion social change, changing conditions, individual and community needs, businesses, institutions, employment markets, educational systems, and community organizations. Digital technology has an impact on economic growth and sustainability, well-being and equation, safety and democracy. Internet attacks can paralyze entire communities, and the consequences can be direct and indirect through false news. The common people know that using the Internet is dangerous, not always where it is and what to do. Enlightenment on this need to take place, and according to a recent National Security Council report, aims to improve the cooperation of information sharing and awareness in this field, in the field of Internet Security Council with various stakeholders, and it's a good thing. Internet attacks are wars during times of peace. There are ambushes, and there may be attacks from anywhere in the world. The Internet is international, so international cooperation is important. That's where we need Icelanders to be more active.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u41	V.E.G. President. It is quite extraordinary to participate in discussions about security matters with the minister of the Independence Party who sits on the basis of a government agreement where the word NATO cannot be found. It is not mentioned in the government covenant. I think we're going to have to ask a minister if he hasn't been hit by strudels on account of his international cooperation that the word "Norda" is not in this government contract. However, after 2006, there was a void in security that man has been striving to fill by means of a submarine traffic near the country. Happily, we have failed, with increasing air space monitoring and regular search engines of the latest quality. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if these activities call for more security. Now it is known that there is a better way to train helicopter pilots than here in Iceland. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister may not stand here to help our fellow workers - who I hope to be fellow workers, although not mentioned in the Constitution - to train helicopter pilots. This would be good to hear, because there is a void here after the U.S. Army left Centralesach in 2006.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u42	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the advisor, huh? paritaprevir The Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Berrydóttir, the debate, and as much as the subject, the context of the matter here, and the highest. Minister of Guðlaugur to Þór Þórðarson, son of Thor, for his entry. As matters have developed here--very fast in the latter time, I want to say, and the security environment changed--is inevitable, and it is well described in the discussion here, to approach security and protection on a broad basis. The challenge is complex. This is especially the two things I would like to bring forth here, a respectable president, during the discussion, i.e. This wide approach and cooperation with other countries, the emphasis on this factor, and the contributions and development of funding to the seminary. The preparation of national security policy was prominent in the Senate work. The National Committee on Parliamentary Syllabics Directive of the policy, to approach a broad-spector security and protection case, as it says. This is made very clear in the adjustments. The Foreign Affairs Commission proposed that the government's policy take into account threats related to climate change, natural disasters, food and food security, health security and epidemics; that governments take into account other threats such as terrorism, organized crime, and threats to economic and economic security; and at the end of the proposal that the national security policy will reflect the wide view of national security manifest in policy. A respectable president. I believe we've been consistent. If we look at the jury on cooperation in security and prevention, to ensure Iceland's safety and defense with active cooperation with other countries, we've increased the budget of the case by 60% in two years.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u43	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Bryfjörn's daughter for taking up this case, it's important to us. The information on security and defence in Iceland is shared in the location of the country here in the middle of the Atlantic. During the Cold War, it was so obvious, but after the tensions ended, the importance of the country was reduced to the power of the superpowers. The situation is different. As the Arctic routes began to open, the eye is increasingly focused on the north, and sailing and other activities are predictable to increase in the area in the near future. The increased activity of the Italians calls for us to keep on the watch. There are many fears, not merely military, due to changes in international affairs we have all seen, but also from a environmental perspective and from a safety point of view. We cannot sit by, simply because an environmental disaster near the country can cost us a lot of money. Both of us must share in international cooperation with local nations and lay down our weighed views - we are here in the middle of the Atlantic Ocean, have built largely our resources on the products of the sea, and have dealt with the Ægir for centuries. We also need to be participants in the national security services around the country, since sailing will not be much bigger than this country, and we must be ready to respond if there is a problem. This also means that there is a need to support the National Guard with equipment, ships, and equipment but also the police, especially the border guard, that we must not neglect. It is easy in this regard to the vast majority, or 19 out of every 20, who visit the country in one place, i.e. of Keflavík.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u44	Mr. President. As I mentioned earlier, the average increase in seawaters in the coming decades is estimated to be 1.2 m. It is that since we are able to stop greenhouse gas emissions by about as soon as possible and that the western part of Antarctica does not set foot into the sea. Then the number would be much higher. I'm not entirely worried that a city in Iceland will be submerged, but it will lead to bad things if it works out. An increase in speed between the United States and the Russians and other world actors at this time, in interaction with this climate problem, is dangerous. The danger is that by surrendering on these treaties, which have been called a dolphin's race, such as what we saw during the Cold War, when the world's countries were publicly armed and tried to become on top of a new balance of terror. This new balance of terror must not exist. To resist this, you will have to make demands to us allies and to others to come to the table and resolve issues to stop this happening right away. So it would be natural for me that Iceland, as a little peaceful country, would offer an international peace conference as soon as possible, with emphasis on the involvement of all the nuclear powers. The objective would be to walk away with a contract that focuses on some of the world's joint defense resources to protect itself from climate change rather than on building more weapons, or that a clear box will be created on how much weapons are permitted. It is not often that mankind has the opportunity to unite with one common enemy, but the climate problem can be viewed as a security threat to all nations.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u45	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjörðurdóttir for being a pioneer for this discussion, which is important. She's important, and she's complicated. These matters can be viewed from a wide range of perspectives. I'd like to make it a subject that we're confronted with a seeming change in the international system. It seems that elements that depend on the signs of nationalism, isolationism, and simple world images come to grips with the weather. This is not good for a small country, depending on international trade and order, and firm for international relations. We have every place where we can contribute to the balances that we try to do what we can to promote communication based on mutual respect and liberality while speaking strong against forces mentioned here at all levels. These forces extend to the western ocean, and they grow to the eastern sea. They also grow in cooperation that we actively participate in. It is safe to mention that within NATO there are nations in which the trend in this respect is ineligible for our general view of the world, I think, of the world and its security. [[The president calls.]] I don't think Iceland is supposed to use and speak against isolationism and nationalism, but it's for internationalism and free trade.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u46	Mr. President. Thank you. Councilmen and the highest. Ministers for particularly good discussions and particularly the members of Parliament on climate issues and the changed definition of security. Some people feel that I am crowding up the security concept when I say, " Iceland is not supposed to have an army, either domestic or foreign, and to stand outside the military alliances and refuse to make war. ' However, this has been the policy of the left movement, and this has been the policy of lefts and peacemakers for nearly 70 years and must be made clear in the administrations of the government in foreign and international affairs. We can make up a nation without war, always using internationally active means to seek peace and to use it clearly against wars and for peace. We are to show that we respect the United Nations Armistice Convention and international humanitarian laws and that we vote with terms for the ban on nuclear weapons. We can put an important weight on the scales of peace and balance, and we're supposed to do so with the fact that Iceland is not an island. We are to do our part internationally when it comes to stamping out inequities, talking for cooperation, peaceful solutions, and support of disarmament agreements. Finally, I'd like to remind you that Iceland is going to carry out independent foreign policy and that its own international emphasis is on peace, human rights and humanity, justice and democracy. Our history, culture, and community are giving us a head start. We should make the advantage of it and stand up with confidence and bone, despite our smallness. You see, few countries have accomplished wonderful things on a global scale, and there we are no exception.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u47	A respectable president. I thank both the proponents and members of the Parliament for their extremely objective and careful discussions. I completely agree that we should discuss these matters more often. I can't go through all the things that came out here, but I'm glad I didn't. The members of Parliament discussed this from a broad perspective. I wanted to put some things out here in the discussion. First, all agree, at least here, on the goal of a world without nuclear weapons. Happily, we have been successful in reducing nuclear weapons through the Atlantic Union. That's not the opposite. Since the end of the Cold War, the number of nuclear weapons has decreased by 95% through the Atlantic Community policy. It is very important that these nuclear agreements continue to exist. Then it must be followed by the nature of the case, i.e. Those who come after them. When people talk about the ICAN deal, Obama, former president of the United States, began to criticize Russia in 2013 because they weren't following the deal. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson, no one in the world has made comments on the fact that the reign of NATO is missing. We have a helicopter band that we can be proud of. It's on the National Guard, and we're supposed to build it up and strengthen it even more. That's what we're doing, we're highlighting it in a long-term financial programme. We're also here to discuss cooperation in the Norwegian field. In our leadership of the Norwegian team, I stress, and it will be done in the next year, the proudenberg report, which is important in the discussion. The report will be adopted at a conference, and we will appreciate the success of carrying out the suggestions there are - many are very good, including On the basis of security and defense - and what else we can do. Despite the fact that Sweden and Finns are not in the Atlantic, they are the closest member states of the Atlantic Community. It is a great will among the norse less and norse governments that we work together in security and defenses and then in a wide context. There's something to celebrate and do.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u48	Mr. President. I'm going to direct a request to the highest level. Secretary of State for the establishment of a foreign and security agency. The question sounds like this: A secretary's discretion follows the Ministry's policy as reported in a future foreign service report, in 2009, regarding the establishment of a foreign office and a security agency? If so, how? V.E.G. A minister answered a similar inquiry. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthyr over a year ago. Then the National Security Council had not yet come together. It may be a good thing for this question to come right after the issue of safety and protection. I think it's important in view of the development we Icelanders face just like all the NATO countries. We need to analyze our circumstances. We need to have an overview of what's going on as we firmly support the communication of NATO countries to form Russia, as well as China. Then we will not be able to place our binoculars to the blind and say: "We are not going to do anything else. We need to strengthen our defenses while maintaining our contact with the kingdoms mentioned earlier, but we also need to be alert to what needs to be done in security and defenses. To do so, we need analysis, and we need experts who help us maintain security. We need to be in the most extensive international cooperation. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: How will he try to follow up the main purpose of the Senate resolution in his day for the establishment of a foreign and security agency? Clearly, we have a very broad and extensive knowledge of these exact issues, e.g. I'm at the World Health Organization. The highest. A minister would consider looking there now when lines are becoming clarified, or perhaps going other ways to strengthen educational institutions, such as the World Health Organization, perhaps other universities that focus on this? How will a minister exercise himself in this matter? How important it is that we keep to our toes about how our country's defenses and security are concerned! Take care of the highest. A minister uses more research in this field and follows it in the spirit presented in the Senate arrangement at the time?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u49	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir for the inquiry and the discussion she receives in the chamber. There is a need to discuss the matter of foreign and security more frequently and how we serve best the goal of increasing education and information on these important matters. The proposed proposal for the establishment of a foreign and security site was set up in the state-of-the- future report as part of an action to stimulate a foreign discussion. Like other suggestions in this report, she has received a thorough examination and is still being discussed in the Ministry of State. So this discussion is welcome. In fact, a proposal for the establishment of a foreign and security agency has a prehistoric, like cognition. A senator referred to this, for in 2009 the General Assembly agreed to a resolution that led the government to investigate the basis of setting up such a research site. In 2012 the government of Iceland referred to this synoptic resolution to a transnational security conference for Iceland. The committee sought prisoners in many places. Among other things, a summary of the National Research Centre in Foreign and Security was presented, as well as the research site in Norway, NUPI. The Commission did not establish financial grounds for such establishments, so it was not part of the proposals proposed by the Committee in 2014 and later developed national security policies for Iceland and the establishment of the National Security Council. However, the committee noted that it was proper to reconsider the situation. As a result, the report on future foreign services is specifically linked to National Security Council and, in fact, also to the International Ministry of the University of Iceland, which is doing good work for this benefit. The Act on National Security, adopted in 2016, includes The advice should be used for an open discussion on national security and education and information on this matter in cooperation with the university community, thinkers and the media. As the situation is now, including. In view of the practical use of funds, it is to consider the planned cooperation of the State Department of State and the National Security Council on further security issues, and foreign affairs are an important factor in Iceland's national security policy. The Ministry of State Security, and the Ministry of State has cooperated with the World Health Organization for State Security, such as the Watchberg, with an informed discussion of foreign and national security in the spirit of the law on national security. The most intimate example is a conference on disarmament that was held at the end of the recent week. It is now a national agreement with the International Department and possibly more university institutions and minds to promote discussions about various foreign affairs, including security and protection. National Security Council intends to represent various conferences and information sharing, including ... intheEnvironmentEngineoftheEnvironment. Then the Ministry of State is working to increase the discussion of foreign and foreign projects in general through reporting and participation in seminaries and events. In fact, there was another suggestion in the foreign report for the future to further the Ministry's Information and Media Department for this purpose. Increased consultation with professional life and society is part of it. There has been a foundation for more efficient communications from emissaries in the management sleep and community media. So something has already been done to achieve the goals of the proposal. A senator asks about. It's certainly an option to perform the proposal as presented in the report, but I also find it normal to look forward to the work that is already being carried out in the National Security Council by law and on planned contracts with the International Institute of the University of Iceland and others. At the moment, foreign services are faced with action projects such as executives in the Northern Union and the Arctic Council, a seat in the United Nations Human Rights Council, and the board of the World Bank. All these projects provide opportunities for increased coverage of foreign affairs in the media and in the community. Their leading has had extensive consultations with the Free Society, Business Life, and the university community, which also promotes an active debate on foreign and security, linked matters in a broad sense. Under these circumstances, there is reason to prioritize the use of funds in good cooperation with national security and university interests. We must always be correct in speaking to a body of councils, such as the National Security Convention and the search for practical ways. But we agree with our objective. I want to thank you again. The leader, the boss, the boss. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, for starting the discussion, which I would like to consider in the final work now being done in the Ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u50	Mr. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín, the daughter of Gunnarsdóttir, for keeping this case alive. It has naturally taken a very long time to get this out, and it is very strange that Iceland's national security interests are, in fact, primarily intelligent on the basis of foreign studies and that there is no basis for this in this country. It is also strange that we are about ten years away from our approval. I'm amazed it takes ten years to feel a few million dollars, so maybe you can have as one scholar in half a job on identifying our national security interests. While working with free partners is the best thing to do, I doubt the common sense of expounding Iceland's national security issues to free partners instead of being done properly by the State in cooperation with the educational community. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u51	A respectable president. We'll discuss the establishment of a foreign and security agency. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter for bringing this matter to its attention here and at the highest. Minister for his answers. I would especially like to introduce to myself what I think is very important, and a minister came in handy in his talk, but that is, we look at it in the wide sense, using the opportunities we now have in the northern and the prehumanity. I believe, more dignified President, that this group of paintings has become clear that the northern states are one of our most important business in foreign affairs. I think it's a unique opportunity now in our prehumanity to put these matters on the schedule even more. We have strong research institutions under the university that are dealing with this case, and I expect us to see them flourish even more during this prehuman love of ours. There we have the opportunity to present our important issues and schedule them. I think it's very important in this, like the highest. A minister came on, looking at things a little wide.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u52	Mr. President. Thank you very much. A minister for clear answers and rejoices to find this keen interest in our safety and protection. The safety and protection of Iceland are part of the work of maintaining research and examining what we must do to ensure the security of the nation. It is part of the responsibility of the government of the United States. Then there is the practical way we can build our own environment. That's even. through search and rescue. We need to remember that this too will be guaranteed, and that we simply cannot do without NATO. How do we know this? That's exactly what we need in a country for our own research. It's certainly respectable that it comes from inside the Ministry of State, but I think, too, and I'm convinced that we need to expand our research in order to identify the risks and challenges we face. Earlier today they have been mentioned, e.g. There are many challenges to network security, environmental issues not to mention false news, etc.; anything that may threaten our community and security, both within the country and within the vicinity. There are new challenges that we face. It has been about ten years since this was adopted in the spirit that we should focus more fully on this area. I encourage it to the highest. Minister, and I don't doubt that he will be given the support, to take hold of these matters, and that we will expand our research and further work in this field, whether through the International Ministry or any other scholars who can help us build and secure national security policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u53	A respectable president. I want to thank you again. A senator and a captain and others before. Parliamentaries who participated in this discussion. Still, there is a misunderstanding when it is said that it was ten years ago. This took place in a specific process, and the decision was made to the Senate Committee that was given this assignment not to suggest the same procedure when it proposed national security policy. That is why they offered proposals for future foreign service. Then it is just what has been happening here. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir went through earlier that we must have independent research. I believe that we should work closely with other comparable organizations, especially in the North countries. I've talked to my colleagues about it, and they've taken it very well. There's no need for us to invent the bike. Of course, humans are often dealing with the same thing, making analyses of the same things. We should not hesitate to cooperate. That's why I look to the college community, and that's why I'm looking at the thinkers and free partners. If there are some who are supposed to be careful not to double-design, it's with the Icelanders, who are 350 thousand. It should be very simple for us to organize ourselves so that the same things are not being done in many places. There's a lot to do. Today's discussion has discussed the various threats. Network security has been noted many times, including the environment. Another issue that has been adopted and mentioned during the discussion is that because of increasing northern activity, there is, of course, an increased risk of environmental disaster, which is devastating to Icelanders. This proposal is there because the other one was not made, which is why it is in a proposal for future foreign service. I'm happy to hear it. Senators. True, it takes all the money, and even if these are not the most expensive expenses, even small amounts of money may be extremely difficult to find. [[The president calls.]] But let's see what's coming.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u54	Mr. President. I submitted this request to the highest level. Transport and Regional Ministers in mid-Septary September, followed by the top of the bill. It is, in fact, a whole law of law. It stipulates that it can go up to 110 miles per hour in certain areas and paths, probably where security and circumstances allow. I'm glad these will come out. It is actually permitted by law, where the situation allows, to go up to 100 miles [100 km], which is in very few places. That authority, however, has never been new. I remember being front of the highest. A professional minister has been careful to raise his maximum speed. I believe, though, that we need to assess the situation, and it is quite clear that we already have two roads, such as nearly all of the Smokey Way. I don't want to wait until 2033 after it doubles as suggested in a transport plan. Since circumstances permit, it is quite clear that we can take these routes and use them as much as we can. We will see that using new technologies, if e.g., the pace can vary according to the circumstances. snow or other weather strains recommend a different rate. I'm asking the highest. Minister if he and his Ministry will take advantage of this when he receives this warrant from the council. Does he see that he will use that authority? So, then, at what key source does he envision that these things will be done?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u55	A respectable president. Just in the beginning, there are some terms that apply to the administrative principles that apply to the rise in the maximum speed, both in current traffic laws as well as in the currently existing bill for the council. Thirty-seventh. The current law discusses general speed limits. In urban areas, speed cannot exceed 50 miles per hour. Outside of urban areas, speed cannot exceed 80, though 90 miles [90 km] on roads are bound in length. The same article contains exceptions from the general speed limit. It allows to set higher speed limits on certain roads, though at more than 100 miles per hour, if the circumstances allow and preferred to cover traffic, as measured by the important safety criteria. According to 81 st. current traffic law is the head of the Roadmaker who decides to set higher or lower speed limits for urban highways but on other roads is the sheriff who decides the speed limit for the country government's proposals. When determining the maximum rate and permanence of increase of traffic laws, many factors are considered to be considered. First, whether the way and its design meet the necessary requirements for increasing speed. Second, whether the next environment, called a safety area, meets the same conditions and third, whether the middle zone between highways, called mediums, meets the criteria. A bill to a new U.S. traffic law before the council shows the general speed limit. It says that the maximum vehicle speed in urban areas should be no more than 50 miles per hour, unless specific reasons are given with higher speed limits and traffic signals indicate that this is the case. It's unchanged from the current law. It is expected that the average maximum road speed will also be unchanged, or 50 miles per hour, on roads with tarmac and 90 miles [90 km] on the road as well, unless traffic signals indicate otherwise. It would be permitted to set a higher speed limit, although not above 110, if driving policies are separated and other circumstances allow, the magnitude of the safety profile does not allow. Roads with separate roadways with a maximum speed of 90 being walking, biking, and light -weight motorcycles in category I are not allowed, as there are sidewalks, footpaths, bikes, or other pathways. Thus, the maximum speed would be 110 miles per hour, which is a change from what is now. At this time, a minister under the bill should set in force the decision to submit additional regulations about the types of roads where it is permitted to set less or increase the maximum speed, including the electronic control of road speed. According to the report provided with the bill, the main reference is 2+1 or 2+2 roads from abroad, using a roadway between vehicles. Source hides even In that a minister may decide that the speed of such roads will be controlled by electronic signs equipped with automatic sensors for weather and other conditions. According to the bill, the Road Building decides to set speed limits on all highways, although local government and police are highways in urban areas. On roads other than highways, the local government decides a speed limit to stand by the police's approval. But then, that question. A senator, to the Smokey Lane. Smokejanes Ways Between Hafnarfjords and Cheflavík meet conditions for maximum speed. The next environment of the road, i.e. However, areas of safety, north and south, do not meet maximum speed requirements. To allow speeds of 110 miles after changes in traffic laws, it would have to be a minimum of 18 meters wide without any barrier on either side of the track to reduce the risk of serious injuries from driving. For example, on the north side there are lamp posts that could harm them. These stakes are being replaced with a safer pole, but this work is not finished. Another factor is that the middle zone between highways, called mediums, does not meet nor does it meet conditions. In the middle of the road area, construction has been accomplished to prevent vehicles from crossing over half of the road to the opposite direction. This work may be said to be only halfway, since the road has only been set up along the other side of the road, usually on the higher side of the road. There is not enough time to complete the road in the media to be sufficient. Finally, conditions for cyclcyclists have not been met on the Smokey Way. The higher the speed in the road, the more serious the consequences of the accidents are. A maximum increase in the rate of the accidents is expected to be more severe and may increase. So, above all, I don't think it's time to raise the maximum speed on the Leyjanes Way south of Hafnarfjörður. To answer the question, is it possible to increase the maximum speed in roads other than the Smokey Way? The best way to answer is to tell Smokejanes Way the road that is best equipped for the increase in speed, despite what is mentioned above. According to this, there are no conditions for increasing speed on other roads or on the roads of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u56	V.E.G. President. The annual cost of community care from road accidents is 40 to 6 billion dollars. There is much to do to increase traffic security by means of all means. A road safety programme shows that one of the main measures to achieve Iceland's aims in the five European countries with the best traffic security is to reduce or limit speed of vehicles. Sadly, accidents are often caused by human error because drivers do not drive according to circumstances and environment and drive too fast. Various measures have been taken and safety concerns have been emphasized in the transport programme, the safety factor is at the top of which. The road has taken various measures, including the U.S. set a blue, guiding sign to lower the speed. I just want to ask you, isn't it more urgent to slow down?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u57	Mr. President. While driving cars with energy from fossil fuels, one side of the fast, often forgotten, is increasing greenhouse gas emissions as speed increases. As the speed is increased from 90 miles per hour to 110, the emissions increase significantly, not linearly, but much more. I'd like to give you an even break. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir and the highest. A minister to keep that in mind and to keep 90 miles maximum speed for now. By keeping our speed moderate, we will be careful of all of us and of our environment. It may well be that by increasing the electricalisation of vehicle fleets and, with more eco-friendly energy sources, it can be considered because greenhouse gas emissions are falling, increasing the maximum rate in the country's best roads.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u58	Mr. President. When the speed changes from 90 to 110 on the Smokey Way, five minutes will be saved on the way from Keflavík to Reykjavík or vice versa. I don't have much sympathy for that. However, the greatest risk of driving is not too fast but too much difference between the fastest and slowest vehicle in the road. Some traffic engineers have spoken of canceling speed limits simply because drivers are fully capable of evaluating the situation as a whole. Instead, the environment around us should be designed to shape the speed desired for each occasion. But I'm not going to go that far. However, I intend to suggest that as a group of drivers are generally capable of evaluating situations and identifying them, we use technology to change the maximum rate of depth according to the individual situation and allow drivers as a whole to enjoy the doubt. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u59	Mr. President. I agree with what happened with the last speaker, OK? paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy, to use technical solutions and try to regulate traffic somewhat in the environment and to trust drivers with regard to circumstances. After these answers, the secretary of transportation is very clear to me - after retrieving and evicting what he said, which was quite fine, fine fertilities - that this law will not be used. It's just that way. It is simply that we are about to double the Smokey Way - according to the plans of Ministers, it is 2033 - and it is not expected to be of the business of racers or the fulfillment of the standards set in Icelandic regulations. The basic answer to a minister is: This will be a warrant, but it will simply not be new. I also wondered: " Where does this reference come from? Have they been taken from the North countries out of circumstances other than those at home? Happily, Icelanders also look to foreign lands, even though not all of them are refreshed by their international cooperation. Therefore, Icelanders need to learn to drive faster and may drive faster than 90. I think there's one thing we need to take into all this, that we need to know how to drive by circumstances. The situation in a foreign field is that of running faster than 90. To all this said, and after we weigh and weigh the minister's answers, I think it's pretty clear that the minister should not just focus on double the track, but go up the train to Keflavík.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u60	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for bringing up the matter and discussion of members of Congress who were certainly different. I don't know why. It's forethought, my ass. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín, the daughter of Gunnarsdóttir, brings some special joy from turning out my words. I was just going over exactly how things are and what conditions must be met in order to apply this authority. This is not possible under the present circumstances. Nevertheless, a new bill to traffic law has said that it is possible to go up to a speed of 110 miles per hour. But what happened was true. paritaprevir A Ari Guðmundsson's report that using diesel or gasoline will increase emissions. In Norway, however, such roads are developing at a speed of 110 miles [110 km], and there is one of the basic questions that humans need to answer in their design is how to achieve the goal of meeting the climate goals while making transport easier. It is also true: In view of serious accidents, would it not be smarter and have increased in recent years to reduce their speed? If all were to follow instructions, then we would likely see the results that humans would drive in a more reasonable way and more accidents would be spared. The key point is that all drivers behave according to their circumstances. In the next 15 years, what we are doing is looking overall at how we build up the road system. Will it be at the end of this 15 - year - old period, 2033, as if the members of the council enjoy calling on or ending in 2029 or 2030? Many find it very short when it comes to banning a new purchase on diesel and gasoline cars, but then it seems quite far, three years later, that they have to wait for some road to 2033. But we're talking about a broad road built up, where we could even. ... usingthisreport to increase maximum speed at 110 miles per hour. [[The president calls.]] It is basic that we do not allow accidents to interfere with the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u61	A respectable president. Over the past few years, there has been an ever - increasing discussion of the importance of farmers' ability to offer a wide variety of goods. There are many reasons why this is important. First, the taste of consumers is simply variable. While some people are fully satisfied with legislatures at random, others want to choose a lamb that has been allowed to hang for a long time, etc., even willing to pay higher price for that product. By offering a more variety of products, farmers in the form of goods, i.e. The fixed cost of making meat is divided by more groups of products. Although no one is arguing that the work of the Icelandic sheep can be solved simply by making sheep's money easier for slaughtering in their homes, something like this part of the solution is new, especially with more tourists. Part of a prayer has knowledge and interest in caring for these markets. At that time, the regulations we deal with the slaughter have been vast and complex, so it has been difficult for parties to obtain all the allowed permission, since the Board of Homes and Processing Acts is complex and farmers have had trouble with innovation. It is, in fact, remarkable to slaughter animals at home for personal consumption, but selling to others is at the same time forbidden. Perhaps it is just as dangerous for those living in the home to eat the product as it would be for those who eat it. There must be a sharp shot at anyone who cuts the meat and the bones being entrusted with it, not for slaughtering the beast. At that time, many slaughterhouses have been very taxing. This high cost of reimbursement makes it more difficult to pursue innovation through product development. I believe the big slaughterhouses are making a mess of themselves with this price. I think farmers' interests, of course, of most slaughterhouses, are having as the most diverse fragrant species of goods and for the purpose of operating farmers themselves. The role of the government in this regard must be to provide the streets of Icelandic agriculture to provide a greater variety of goods than to protect wholesome food. The government is to be with farmers, even though they also need to make sure that nothing is different and, of course, that the safety of the public is guaranteed. This change in Regulation was an important step in that direction. However, regulations must never become goals in themselves; they must always be used to achieve higher goals. That's what we're at the highest. There's no doubt a minister would agree. This change in Regulation in 2016, of the small food company, was followed by enterprises which met the definition of this Regulation simplified. This change went into effect in the middle of the 2016 slaughter cycle, so it can be said in itself that there is not much experience yet. But I find it interesting to hear from the minister how the experience has been so far and whether he believes it is a reason to simplify the rule of order in connection with these little slaughterhouses. The questions have already been received by the secretary.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u62	A respectable president. Thank you. A member of the council three queries to the Regulation and to the general situation of smaller food companies. The objective of this Regulation is to facilitate slaughterhouses, fish markets and small food companies to meet the requirements of commitment and monitoring regulations, although the objectives of Europe's food safety, consumer protection, business responsibility for their production, traceability, etc. The above - quoted directive was given in October 2016. We've been looking for information from Food Institute. Then it was found that no slaughterhouse has yet been authorised on the basis of the Regulation. However, the application was received in September last and is being processed by the Food Institute. At the same time, there is work to adapt one slaughterhouse that operates under the prior conditions of the Regulation. Food agencies have been introducing the Regulation to meetings and seminars. In this respect it can be assumed that the Regulation has produced the result that all of these organisations are made easier to meet the requirements of commitment and monitoring regulations. It is certainly a means of perpetuating applications that address the government's priorities as reflected in the Treaty on the emphasis on innovation and product development in agriculture in order to promote structure, increase resources, and use opportunities based on interest in food culture with sustainable quality and goods. Second, a number of parties under the Regulation were asked. To answer that small food companies with meat and dairy products under the Regulation are a total of 15, according to food management information. There is only one active slaughterhouse that will depend on the regulations, as the situation exists today. This slaughterhouse had been granted work permit before the Regulation went into effect, but the process is being adapted to the current Regulation. The fish markets, however, that fit in with the Regulation are 28, so we all have 43 or 44 companies that fit into this small category. Finally, it is asked if I believe that a simple rule order may be added to a small slaughterhouse. Now that there is experience with the application of the above regulations, I would like to conclude first that the experience in it is short and clearly not a very high demand for it. It may well be forming. I certainly feel that the discussion on these subjects is increasing. I support a simple rule, and I am its spokesman. At the same time, we must emphasize that the rules are adhered to and in harmony with the commitments we have made. Food agencies and the Ministry are monitoring the implementation of these issues in neighboring countries and the development of European legislation on this area, including Considering the sources available to enhance flexibility in the activities of small slaughterhouses It is being examined and monitored. We have a study in the Ministry of Matis's suggestions on the so - called microchip house. They are aimed at promoting increased innovation in the countryside and taking into account a system known in certain parts of Germany. For that reason, i.e. Because of Matis' proposal, I wished for a food clinic to get information from the North countries on this subject. It led to the conclusion that for the first time, our legislation has no room to provide reserves for slaughtering in a slaughterhouse that is permitted if placed on market meat. Second, the answers from Sweden, Norway, Finland, and Denmark were consistent with the answers from the Food Agency here. The European Union is now in the field of discussion about small slaughterhouses, how to define their activities better, while considering that food security and the necessary official monitoring of the production that might take place there may be. We follow this discussion both in the Ministry and in the Food Organization. This, of course, will enable little slaughterhouses to be easier to do. But, of course, under the standards of security and consumer protection, we will consider this with a very open mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u63	V.E.G. President. Saling product directly from farm is increasing. This is due not only to increased tourism but also to changes in consumer consumption patterns and preferences for local production. Farmers need to be able to slaughter, work, and sell products directly to consumers from their own stocks. By doing so, we will strengthen and promote our employment as we maintain an important skill in the food security of the nation. As far as I'm next to it, it's been opened, and that's what happened in the past. Agile minister, Sigurður Ingi son of Jóhannsson, a small slaughterhouse in the Segressor of the Lands. I'd like to ask how it's been going, how it's paid off. At the same time, I would like to encourage a minister to help with these matters and add his weight to the scales so that this can work so that we can expand and strengthen our country and strengthen our food production, which is so important to us and into the future, and is likely more important than we are.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u64	V.E.G. President. I want to celebrate this discussion and these questions as easily as possible. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir directed to the minister. I've had a lot of thinking, and my group of people, what a crisis farmers have been having long, long - standing experiences, and they've done little in a positive way. That's why I've been speaking to the idea of raising small slaughterhouses or setting up possible home-rolling, promoting sales directly from a farm, and so on. Then I think about solidity, food security, and diversity running meat. I think this debate is very good, and it's supported and encouraging ministers, as has been shown, to look into these factors, to increase their variety in the agricultural sector, in the sheep farm.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u65	Mr. President. I'd like to welcome this request that brings out what I think is extremely important, to increase the freedom of farmers from the present system to as much as possible. By doing so, I'm not saying we should shut down the present system, much less. It is our policy that we should strengthen the agriculture, even more than now, but first and last to jump the system so that farmers can choose which way to go. Not necessarily today. I just know it's okay with all my conversations, including... Last year, to farmers who were faced with the products being charged with a higher price if they wanted to use their bodies more for home work, the slaughter price was much higher. The farm community needs to be revised too, and first and last, we have to push all these rods, I'm going to agree with that. A leader, promoting all the rods that enable farmers to survive the article as such and present various products that, in turn, strengthen other aspects of our community, whether it is tourism or just the normal life - style in our other good society. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u66	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for presenting this request and the highest. Minister for the answers. I have to admit that I am amazed that more people have not applied for this license after this new Regulation, since this is one of the very things we have held up in our debate about agriculture; increased freedom for farmers, increased innovations, especially in the light of the tourist stream; and the fact that people can sell directly from farms. You would have thought that there were obstacles in the way this law was somehow to be solved. So I have to admit that I'm kind of surprised that more people didn't say what to say, jump on the wagon. I agree with those who have spoken here. I think it is very important that farmers have the freedom to slaughter at home and develop their products toward what the market is calling, which I think will always be more varied and varied with increasing tourism. Many of us were here, a respected president, in the Faeroe Islands, and visited there. An interesting farm that's out on a small island. There they have a slaughterhouse that meets my understanding of all EU regulations and other things, and they're there slaughtering in grass and grass. [[The president calls.]] I wondered if there are no more opportunities for any Icelandic farmers as well. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u67	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers and for those who have spoken up. I agree with what was said just before, and I also wondered that no more time is long, but from 2016. Then maybe it's a little bit over. It's important, as the secretary came in to introduce it further. I think it is very important to increase flexibility, that is, of course, as Minister of the Supreme Minister entered, what the Germans have done, we must be able to do the same. We are here talking about a very clean product, the source of Icelandic agriculture. Of course, we have a problem with our system as to the respect of the chain, i.e. The slaughter, the industry, and the salan. She can stay with a farmer, I'll buy some. My flesh of such a farmer is not cut off. That is one of the things we need to try to get more people to do. As I came in earlier with the innovation that needs to take place in the agriculture field, along with other measures both governments and farmers must work in a variety of ways. Of course, it is not okay, as mentioned earlier, that there is a prerogative to take the bodies to a slaughterhouse, so expensive that it is so expensive to take them there and take them back, that there is resistance. I'll agree with the highest. Minister. I also encourage him to push and introduce him well, for there is obviously something to be done. This official surveillance to ensure quality, provide food security for consumers, is something we can closely follow, whether it is Maize or anyone else who is to be monitored for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u68	A respectable president. I appreciate the discussion, too. I also accept all the encouragement that has been expressed in the Senate's comments on the subject. There are certain factors that will no longer be applied to the development of smaller slaughterhouses or changes. It is more than for a sheep farmer today to attack in investments, build markets, market markets, market costs, etc. Even if governments and politicians are very interested in the possibility that these things will work out, this will not be overwhelming. No doubt there are some things in the food law that may not exactly be unpleasant, but they do not encourage smaller producers to pursue the full - time work involved. There are, therefore, reasons for this. It's like I said in the answers to questions, "What?" We're looking at all the things we can do in cooperation with both Matis, with the Food Institute, and we're looking for information, including from Germany because we've heard that there are some national rules that we would like to have the opportunity to look into, so we're watching. We support all efforts in this direction, and we want to create the knots so that it will be easier than for smaller producers to actually market their own productions on their own terms. It would be very good if it were much easier than it is today. But there are countless things that need to be changed before there can be any amount of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u69	Mr. President. The discussion reveals that there are many milestones in modern agriculture. New creation, sustainable development, improved quality, close to consumers, drug loss, etc. - These are words to guide us. During the last eight years, 107 tons of plant protection have been delivered. In the Environmental and Resource Prevention Programme, the aim is to promote harmonization and not to use chemicals. There were 72 tons under the so - called risk factor, over 35 tons. The total number of 107 so - called active substances that many would like to call plant poison, which, of course, is a wrong name in some cases, was considered to be 19 tons, of 2.2 tons of risk. The use of chemicals in agriculture as well as in general gardening is controversial due to adverse environmental impacts. Of course, it is proper to encourage continuous decline and to end most of it. It is right to achieve them the aims of the Action Programme that plant protection without harmful materials will be prevalent in Iceland. Mr. President. The general situation of these languages and food sources is an incentive for increased organic farming. There are now only 20 active farms in our country, and there are incredibly low numbers. Biodiversity improves food quality, increases soil carbon binding and vegetation, lowers agricultural eco-efficiency, increases land and soil resistance, and soil quality, so that no matter what the benefits may be. I'm asking the highest. A minister of what can be done to increase organic farming and asks: " Won't there be no motivation for it? The situation in agriculture also focuses on the grouse. There's no newcomer. Power prices need to be reduced, increase innovation, higher education in this article, and there is a need for new recommendations, such as the use of heat irrigation in the soil outside by warm water to increase the efficiency of breeding. It is truly green and should, of course, be done on a much larger scale in Iceland than it is now. Then I ask the highest. Minister again: What will he do to further the land's warmth?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u70	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. There's two of them. The Government Treaty specifically states the need to promote organic agriculture. This focus is in accordance with the agricultural general working contract between 2017 and206, where one of the objectives of the contract is to increase the impact of organic production. It will also be my focus on revising the livestock contracts now in 2018 2020. According to the frame contracts of the Food Institute for Money, which is intended for this project. The objective is to help producers or meet the requirements for organic farming and to increase the market supply of such products. Then comes reality. In 2017, two producers, just two, applied for help in adapting to organic manufacturing practices and five persons applied to adapting the amount of 2018. So these are seven members in two years. It is surprising that producers do not go to greater lengths for adaptability to organic production, but in 2017 only 3.2 million were paid at concentrations in this capacity. The contract expected up to 35 million for the project. True, more have applied in 2018 and have already been set aside for a little over 21 million on this same project. The demand for this is evidently only increasing. The current contract guarantees that growers will be assured electricity for subsidies at the costs of transport and distribution of electricity in order to contribute to the more efficient conditions of this article's work. These provisions are expected to be examined further at the review of the Treaty in 2019 with the aim of increasing the climatic growth. The Treaty emphasizes that Iceland is responsible for the production of healthful agricultural products. It also shows that opportunities should be made based on an interest in food culture, with sustainableity and quality guide. The premise that agriculture can be a new opportunity for the future is a balance in production, efficient monitoring, and innovation. I have appointed a task management to shape food policy for Iceland. The purpose of this policy must be to emphasize the focus of the government as reflected in the Treaty, along with the molding of future vision, aims and suggestions for implementing a business life and control system. The work on this project is just now, and we immediately come across the fact that all the basis for information, conversation, is missing in order for us to take organized discussions and to adopt a reasonable course. So the first steps in this subject are to build a database. But in this assignment, as the report puts it, I assume that policy lies at the end of the next year, in 2019 C.E. Similarly, a team has been appointed to shape a food public shopping policy in order to ensure consumers'food from wholesome products, in terms of production and environmental effects. The policy is that the public shopping of food contributes to the reduction of sot track in production and transport. In this regard, domestic production should have an enormous advantage compared to food that has an enormous amount of soot. The proposals of this group are also expected to include ensuring that consumers have access to food source information and that policy meets public health targets for nutrition. I estimate that this group will submit their proposals in March of the next year. The government also intends to provide better information on the origin, production, drug use, and environmental impacts of consumers, which are now considered within my Ministry. Encores, like cod. The perfunctory is well expressed by the government's emphasis on the Treaty, and it is reflected in my opinion in the current agricultural work.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u71	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The manager for good queries. There may be one friend I'd like to come in with when talking about organic farming. What we call today's traditional agriculture is in fact, all of the same hurt we may have used for 15 minutes of all the time we've finished the Earth. We have a lot of opportunities here. It's not long for us to go back and continue to increase the purity that is great, the products are clean and good in this country. I encourage ministers to continue working on this matter and to strengthen it. I look forward to seeing the food policy that will take place, and it has been proclaiming at the end of the next year, since it is a privilege for us in this country to live with wholesome farming products.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u72	V.E.G. President. In a recent interview in the farm newspaper, the chairman of the Union Gardens said that if energy package No. 3 will be approved for gardening in Iceland. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if he intends to support the approval of a third pack of energy at the council and thereby cancel this sector. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that in this fine group of work that he mentioned earlier, one word was missing, that is, market. They are a big deal, and one of the factors involved in this article today is paralysis. V.E.G. A minister said that in a government contract, there is a promise to reduce the electrical price to the burgeoning prayer, which I really hope will be sustained and worth something. I met a very big farmer the other day who told me to spend a mile of time he's paying, and there's a couple of tens of millions a year, about that. Twenty-five percent higher to him here in Iceland than to a gardener in the Netherlands. I'm asking the highest. Minister if it is not necessary to reassign this to equalize this situation. Transfering vegetables from continental Europe or beyond making a natural large carbon track that we can prevent by increasing climatic activity in Iceland. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u73	Mr. President. For a number of years, the individual has spoken of an increase in the use of electric prices in gardening farmers, which is found in the Law covenant that is well - versed. What I would like to mention, however, is that the import of vegetables or fruits or what it is called organics in Iceland, which is that 80 miles to water, is transported by an ossuary, can hardly be considered a good element in increasing organic farming in the world. We should further promote domestic production in this way and work to reduce eco-efficiency, not just domestic culture, but globally.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u74	A respectable president. I want to thank you again. A senator for presenting this important inquiry and the highest. Minister for the answer to her. I also have to wonder that no more people applied for concentrations to adapt to organic farming, but it's good to hear from the highest level. Minister for increased attendance appears to be involved. I think it's very important, for it's clearly in the administration covenant, to promote organic agriculture. I'd like to thank the highest. Minister for this work on food policy. I'm very excited to see what comes out of that job. I think it is very important for us to protect the healthy agricultural products and the importance of the food security of the Icelanders. But it'd be nice too, if it was the highest. A minister would only come into the affairs of the bridal industry. There seems to be a lot of anxiety in the sector with regard to the third energy package, which we are all aware of here at the council that we are working on, but we are studying all the factors of that matter. [[The president calls.]] I believe that it is important to calm only the sector and to assure the men that all of these factors are being examined.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u75	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you for your leader. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, for this inquiry and I welcome it like the above - scheduled inquiry, in view of the fact that we have promoted Icelandic agriculture, increased food security, food security, and dwelling on the country as in the previous language. Similarly, if we remind the import of food by being more sustainable in our own food production, it must reduce carbon footprints in the air and on the uterus. I think it's a good step in that direction and thank you for this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u76	Mr. President. First, I'd like to thank the senators and the highest. Minister for this fine discussion and celebrate the Ministry's policy. Of course, when it comes to organic farming, it is not good to see that there are only seven producers now. Two years of applying for help. But the market needs to be expanded too. The price of organic products is rather high, there is another factor to consider, but I further encourage more direct incentives, temporary tax returns or anything while organics are setting up. There are other factors than those mentioned here that can be considered. As for the bridal industry, I believe the key is education there. In many ways the gardening school has been used through its mother's university simply because contributions have been small and more large, these 125 million who have been paid to attend the school for three years have been just enough for repairs and repairs, but the infrastructure itself has suffered. It is a great opportunity to increase education and knowledge in this regard. The example I mentioned earlier about camping with warm soil, that's a thing like that. can be arranged right through school rather than by some other method. I urge smoke's Gardening School to be promoted by any means necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-05-26.u77	A respectable president. I also thank you for the discussion that has taken place, for it is good and beneficial in many ways. It's obvious there's a lot of things going on here. I've had more questions in my discussion, but I was initially a direct source of the discussion, questions of various ways. I'd like to mention right away that the environment of the landscape in this country is expected to be revised in 2019. It is a contract, as I mentioned in my entropy speech, of 2017,226, in the time of the reign of King Sigmundur Gunnuga's Davíð Gunnlaugsson of Gunoug, and became meaningful at the beginning of 2017. We are reevaluating it, and some aspects of the garden are likely to be addressed. I'd like to agree with that as a dog. The perfunctory is specifically included in the summary of education. That is correct, we have and must do better in this area at the Gardening School, as well as in the Country School, the education that we have there. I'm just saying, the end of this business is there. Somehow, I don't know how it is, in the past few years - this isn't happening today - sitting by agricultural research, work, and development of a scientific community in this area of the industry. I've discussed with the current minister of education that we should consider certain factors that the Ministry of Education has been pushing, which is the best case. I want to say this here in my summary that I expect that what happens in organic agriculture will be one way only. He will do nothing but grow. [[The president calls.]] There is a growing demand for this product, a greater understanding of it in all ways. I encourage members of Congress to hold to the trial and case issue as part of the council.
