ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u1	Borist has two letters from the financial and economic secretary asking for every request to give written answers to the inquiries on the deck. 575, on insurance control, from Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, and on a threshing floor. 614, on the property of hedge funds to the banking system and the surveillance of the FEC, from Birgir Þórarinsson. Borist has a letter from the Environment and Resource Minister where request is made in order to provide a written answer for the requested request. 499, on travel expenses and daily expenses, and on the Ministry and Ministry, from Björn Leví the son of Gunnarsson. Borist has received a letter from a health minister asking for every request to provide a written answer to a covering query. 494, for travel costs and daily expenses, for the Minister and Ministry, from Björn Leví the son of Gunnarsson. Finally, a letter from a foreign minister asking for every request was received in order to provide a written answer to a petition for this request. 498 of the travel costs and daily expenses of the minister and the Ministry, from Björn Leví the son of Gunnarsson. Then the president himself wants to ask for respect because two questions have been delayed, on the subject. 443, on the use of driving books in the automobiles of the Generals, and on the basis of day - to - day money for the President of the Allellis, Berin Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. 433, of the members of the General Assembly and its institutions, of the Þorsteinn of Seystein, the Sæmundsson of Symund. The answers to both queries are about to be prepared.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u2	Mr. President. I'd like to make it a subject of the highest interest. A few weeks ago, a secretary of transportation introduced the council to be a flight policy for Iceland, possibly even being part of a transport program in the fall. Me and the Icelanders have an amazing story to tell. Next year, 100 years ago, the first plane took off to the air in Iceland, Watermamur, Reykjavík. Next year is the anniversary of a flight in Iceland. We owe these pioneers in Iceland extraordinaryly to how far they looked the years before, whether by national transportation, and then by and after the second world war when the nation entered the country. They founded Iceland's airline in international flights and then air routes too. In 1944, we become founders of the International Air Force in Montreal. There were not necessarily many nations who initially shared in that work. We're founders. Which is one of the reasons we get this large area in air traffic control across the Atlantic Ocean. It comes out of that work in its own time. When we become founders in 1944, it shows amazing vision of the government at that time, to engage in this worldwide work involving the flight. In recent years, we have experienced an economic rise in Iceland. I'd like to say that the driving force behind the changes that have become in the nation's economy in recent years is the Icelandic flying business, which has been the basis for international tourism. It may be that in travel - service currency, the flight is about 353/40%. This is where, I believe, must be developed, and that the Department of Transport and the State Department is working together on that policy. [[The president calls.]] However, as noted in the report by the minister of foreign affairs, there is a big and important matter to be discussed and discussed in many areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u3	Mr. President. May 1st. the minimum wage in Iceland will rise to 300,000 dollars. July 1st. will raise to 11.5% of the workforce in the pension fund. This means that in two years or from July 2016, the percentage of workers in the pension fund has increased from 8% to 11.5%. I allow myself to claim that few things are more important to Icelandic employees than just the quality of the pension rights. We will be looking ahead to the extent that in the years and decades, the pension rights of the public wage will increase substantially. That's fine. But I also call attention to this trend as a result of a so - called tax bolt, i.e. in their simple image the difference between the provisional items or the remuneration of the remuneration company and the cost of employment to the employee is increasing. When employers and employees sit down and negotiate for purchases and terms, the gap they watch is always going to increase. That's why it's important that we step here in the direction of reducing this difference. That's even. has been done by reducing the rate of remuneration, by reducing income taxation, by increasing the person's rate and by improving the rate of decline, as at the highest level. The prime minister had a conversation about yesterday, and with a cut of insurance. This is important, reaching down the difference between what the employer sees as an expense and what the payer considers to be his share. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This is one of the major projects of this council, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u4	A respectable president. I'm going to mention again the five-year financial program of the government that is more than embarrassing to me, and I'm sad about it, and the party of the people is fighting poverty in Iceland. Talking about 300,000 bucks is amazing. The minimum advance on May 1, when the fact is that there are only 200,000. Coming in the envelope. I'm here asking about the air, nation, and assembly: Who can survive the tax money that enters the state fund? What's with the priorities? The bank tax is to be lowered, costing 14 billion for state funds. The income tax should be reduced by up to 1%. And who benefits from doing so? Me and my kind, people who are now given a super salary. Those who are remembered as bees have almost nothing to do with their scrawls, except a few crowns. At the same time as Icelanders, especially in the capital area, are paying between 240,000,300,000 dollars. in rent, it's all right that they get paid $150,000. May 1st. I strongly object to this, but I strongly object that for the next five years they are still in this state, that these things are forever spoken of. We're talking about 20 billion, the bank tax system is now to decrease because of setting up banks and making it easier for them to compete on the market - I ask: What competition? What market? What do they deserve from the common people? What have they done but wear belts and yokes, insurance, and okra on the citizens and all the borrowers with them? We don't owe them anything. I think it's much closer to bringing this money, which is no less than 20 billion bucks. which is included in this bank tax and includes 1% that is supposed to lower the income tax, to those who need it, to the poorest people in the country, to those who lie unsettled in the park and never get any serious benefits and never make ends meet.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u5	V.E.G. President. I'm going to discuss the CIA's report on financial stability published yesterday by the bank. The budget we are discussing at the World Council today is based on the findings of the Laboratory that seem optimistic but certainly predicts that economic growth will be less in the future than it has been in the past few years. In this context, it is informative to review this report. It presents a number of interesting support for our efforts in the strategy, to maintain economic growth, maintain economic success, increase in costs and prices, as well as to provide high inputs and increased welfare expenses. The report presents information and assessments of national strengths, national strengths, as well as weaknesses and risks that could disrupt financial stability. The main risk factors are related to increased importance and development in tourism and real estate markets. It is indeed slowing down the growth in tourism, as measured by the arrival of foreign tourists in the country. As a result of less economic growth, the level of production has diminished and thus reduced the risk of overheating in the nation's economy a year ago. Available predictions indicate that this trend continues to improve. House markets are still hard to deal with. In fact, there is an increase in prices and has been the drive of inflation that has been, but a more favorable external situation has been done. The ability of households, companies and financial companies to evaluate economic development to continue. Economic growth is still considerable and waste in the business balance and balance of the currency market. The status of the households has not been so strong for two decades, what is the most enjoyable place to read, and divorce rates, money gains have increased, and despite more personal consumption, the homes are able to form savings and increase pure possessions. The commitments of the households have fallen on all scales; as a proportion of GDP, as a proportion of disposition items and as a share of pure possessions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u6	A respectable president. Unpredictable growth has a growth factor. If so, we need to take it seriously. Over the past few years, we've seen an increase in the number of people in Southnes year after year. There, building up the state business of Istavia has the most impact on it and the activities related to it. However, visitors who arrive on a flight do not stop for as long as it might look. During the past year, the number of bone functions at the Cheflavour Airport increased by 1,750. All right, let's get straight. It is estimated that they increase 650 each year for the next ten years. A similar example is that of the growing number of people and tourists in the South. Such rapid growth is most challenging for all in the woods, whether by transportation, by health care, by law, by police, or by other means of personal care, such as school and day - care. It takes a lot more time for health - care professionals and the police to minister to foreign guests, for example. Also, I would like to point out that both in the city of Rhines and in the areas of Aarnes County, the percentage of people with a foreign country is above 22%. It is a challenge for schoolmates with 60 nationalities who speak about 40 languages to render acceptable services to children. For the continued growth of tourism, it is important that we be able to render good service to our guests and welcome them and to welcome them into the community. It is vital, therefore, that we shoulder responsibility for building up the infrastructure in these areas of growth rather than focus on the distribution of tourists, which are also important. A view that the Southnes do not need our support as they are so close to the airport. There are, however, increasing numbers within the administration.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u7	A respectable president. I'm here to discuss the subject of Humungus. I was standing outside the welfare department. Tuesday in silence with about 200 people because of the subject of the Power of Mind. There's one psychologist in the whole capital area, and he doesn't make it. There's supposed to be some sort of mind - control team, and they haven't built up anything else to help those people. In memory of my friends that the system failed, and also I want to talk about what the system is responding to now, the ill-weak people who are not meant to be, and who are to push off the edge - they're to do everything to prevent this - and in memory of what happened to them. Tuesday, I'm going to use my second minute here in silence, as a Faith Force made a struggle for them.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u8	Mr. President. A chapter on health matters is found in the government's declaration of policy, where there is a great deal of promise. It says, by permission of the president: The U.S. health care system is to compare with what happens best in the world. All the people of the country are to enjoy a good service... In particular, this section discusses mental health, mental health, etc. But, Mr President, the works show the signs. This week we received information that the Ministry of Health has made a decision to subsidize the mental - health team, which has worked within the health care of the capital area since 2003, in close contact with the Compulsion Department. You read it in the media. I haven't heard the Minister responsible for this case take it here, but I know that here, in the wall, there's a lot of support for that operation. So I witness in the morning issue of Tryggvi son of Gíslason, which is in line with a new process and is in harmony with the World Health Organization and the United Nations and the World Health Organization. The task of putting the team on unscrupulous clients, clients, and anyone involved is the responsibility of the left green, forward party, and the Independence Party. These groups are responsible for the exile of free organizations because the policy of all such activities should be put under the wing of the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u9	Mr. President. I'd like to discuss a report on a nursing home that was published in the beginning of April. The report is a follow-up report showing that there has been a significant increase in the demand for nurses in Iceland since 2011, i.e. from 168 if I recall the situation in 360 correctly. So it is a special cause for rejoicing that the current financial program is expected to be greatly improved in this category. It's very important. However, it is even more important that we immediately start our work, I mean, we're in the legal way, how we want to see these matters ahead of time, i.e. how we want to see a system of service for the future. If we continue on the same path, we will continue to build room for the same percentage of older people as we have so far, we will have to build between 7,000 and 8,000 nurses until 2050. We're not going there, obviously not. The service model is totally blown if we are going to continue on the same route. I challenge the senators to reason with me and other members of the council, that in some way we try to think of ways in which we can improve the system of service that we now have, so that the endless sophistication that we have been very busy with will not be the model we see for the future. In this way we can make sure that older ones in that land are well - equipped, in circumstances where they want to live, and through the services they need.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u10	A respectable president. I don't want to, but I am moved to mention something that says in GRECO's report on defense against corruption in the highest power and law enforcement authorities in Iceland. It is the 140th point that the NTSB has been identified by the NTSB that the police have a long history of involvement with a particular political party, and that a party and political viewpoint can sometimes affect her position. Now I think it's clear about which category. I also want to ask why it is so obvious. They suggest the establishment of central organisations involved in internal monitoring and investigation of possible violations of police work. There's one thing that I think it's important for us to keep in mind about this relationship. Such political powers as this large, established political force, which apparently has a relationship with the police also include a form of the world, a form of the citizens, and the way natural and good society is. The fact that a political party is ever affecting the work of the police is not good enough and is something we should take seriously. I'd say the what? A political party should do the same. Pirats and I set out in our time, and we may again submit a synopsis proposal for independent police surveillance. It has been working since the beginning of 2017 on police surveillance committees and the first annual report will be published, it will be released soon, and I look forward to seeing what it says. Let's take a look after the situation after that. This is something we're supposed to be too blue-eyed about in Iceland. Political involvement in police work is completely unacceptable. The fact that there's some political blackmail that controls it, if any created thing inside the police, is completely disturbing, and we're not ever to allow such words to appear again in a GRECO report about us. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u11	A respectable president. On December 12, 2008, the Allied Council adopted a bill on a study of the leading and cause of the fall of Icelandic banks and related events. The bill was submitted by the President of the General Assembly and the presidents of all political parties at the General Assembly and was the result of the agreement on the order of a special committee. The World Commission also appointed a special team to evaluate whether any explanation of the fall of Icelandic banks and the related economic events can be found in the field and morals. A report by the Parliamentary Committee, which would recommend the response of the Generals to the results of the study report, says by permission of the president: A report by the World Committee of Parliamentis (EEC) presents a critical and critical report on the work and ways of the Generals that are important in dealing with them. The factors that may include are listed as: ... that there will be a requirement for a constitution on the role of the Generals. ... thatalliedmen will set up a code of ethics. ...to strengthen the role of the council, the right to information, access to professional counseling and the position of the management stand... and to increase the effectiveness of commissioning. ... thatthe government will be put forth well-presidents... Does any senators know anything here? So I wonder at the President's answer to my inquiry for tips in the General's research reports and how to react to them. It is evident that the Senate Committee produced results. Part of them targets the General administration, e.g. for professional advice and access to information. Despite the high cost and effort that have been paid, however, those with the suggestions clearly do not have much to do. In fact, a financial program that comes from the government is referred to as what should be done for the General. What does this mean about the independence of the council? I still appreciate a clear answer. Despite the occasion, the president of the Generalis has not made up an overview of indications directed toward the Council's administration.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u12	V.E.G. President. First, I want to find that for the second time, the Minister of Justice was not attending a discussion on the government financial program. But in the same way, I want to praise the highest. A minister of finance who was here referring to us on the topic of business last night and did his best to answer what was directed to him. This week a U.S. bank report published on Icelandic tourism. It tells us that at the Airbbbb site in Iceland, about 20 billion bucks. wondering. There are probably 3,500 units for rent in Iceland, but only 231 units are registered. That's 3,200 unauthorized suggestions, not paying taxes. This is the largest smell of a black economy in Iceland. Mr. President. That's rude. To the taxpayers, to competitors, to society, to the rural areas where this is run. I've taken this matter up probably five times with the four ministers, and I've made a quick move to get these people who are involved in this job to register and get permission. It's amazing, but still no minister has trusted to follow my suggestion that the police be hired to visit these agencies, see if they have permission. And if not, to fine them, and to get them to register. It's easy. Here on a map, see Reykjavík. The red dots are made up of Airbnb. It's no big deal for the police to go to one position and knock on the door. You don't have to go to the door until there's 100, and the others come and sign up. It's a pain in the ass.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u13	A respectable president. Depending on current health care programmes, the use of funds and development of the ministry, innovation and diversity, including to meet the ever - increasing demands of individual service. At the same time, the Icelandic government is working to overthrow all the service employers at the same convention. We know the situation by means of Figurative Power. The latest example is the treatment of Karitas, a company owned by several nurses from 1994 who have been in a position to provide invaluable services to people with chronic and incurable diseases. Karitas is giving up now. They're packing up because of government apathy on continued cooperation. Does no one in the government work see the importance of the personal enterprise, the importance of diversity, in the challenges we face? If there's someone left among my friends in the Independence Party who believes in the importance of the choice, the importance of the private enterprise, well, you know where we are, and you're welcome.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u14	Mr. President. I'd like to be here to discuss the subject of a prior organization. The financial agenda, which is a government policy strategy and the money to be spent on to maintain that course until the next five years. That's a very important piece of paper. The conversation yesterday and early was objective and overall beneficial. Although we in the United States have severely criticized the financial program, both the policy and the financial resources intended to sustain it, we have no less criticized the disrespect of ministers who would not be seen during that discussion. When it was discovered, two of the highest. Ministers were going to ignore the discussion of this important program, prefects called for a meeting with the president. At that meeting, compromises were made. V.E.G. The social and equal minister who deals with all the important welfare issues we know was going to be abroad and send a surrogate for the discussion. That was unacceptable to us. Instead of the highest. A minister changed his plans, and we changed our members, and we interviewed him last night. V.E.G. The minister of justice is missing for the second time, the second year in a series, in a discussion of that important matter. It's totally unacceptable and can't happen again. We in the United States have a clear demand for responsible policies and responsible strategy and responsible economic government, as the government laws on public finance are expected. And we make the clear requirement that each one of the highest. Ministers stand up, attend the Hall of Congress, and take the conversation with us members of Congress, and problems. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u15	V.E.G. President. I can tell you what. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson says I'm kind of a police charity. It's not because I'm a member of the Independence Party. It comes as no surprise to me to hear the members of Pirata - all their political debates are about being suspicious of others, making them dishonest, saying they are corrupt. It's not time yet. Piras, even the United States can take it to heart, now spending your time at this high council talking about politics, about the future, how can we improve our professional life? How can we improve our secular career, how do we picture the future? No, it's always about someone else being mean, dishonest, etc. There will be no success in increasing the respect of the council by making such a presentation, not by adding more inquiries and reporting in an effort to attack others, and then turning out of all the information. For God's sake, start talking about the good works that can be done, what can be done well, critical of what you think is not well done, but stop because there will be no results for long periods of time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u16	The President reminds me of why. A senator is required to direct his case to the president.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u17	A respectable president. I accept a challenge. paritaprevir Behemoth, Brynjar of Níelsson, to speak of the best of words here. We've been discussing the budget of the government for the next five years. There are several factors that have led to special disappointment, and I'm going to mention a few. First of all, the bank tax drop. Second, continued taxation by low-payers. Third, a total lack of transport policy. The decrease in the bank tax. Just dropping taxes on a bank by 62%. The Kingdom, by taking up nearly 6 billion a year, will give up its share. At the same time, nothing is done for underpayers and nothing for the road system. Who Have the Banks? Who's good for this? The state has most of the banks, but who have the rest of it? There are unknown owners of a hedge fund. The tax is being reduced to an unknown international fortune - teller. But there is no reason to reduce taxes on the income of the people, the senate and the disability donor or low-payers who pay taxes on income that no one can survive. The road system is not being salvaged at attention of the Agency and the Independence Party. For the next five years, the campaign corresponds to 6% of the transport projects - 6%. That's it. That's it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u18	A respectable president. Of course, I wasn't personally named, but here was a hot spot on Pirata. So, all I want to do is make Pirates defend themselves in this regard. I challenge it. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson to explain in what way Porta's critics have been irreprehensible, to merely make a list of our arguments as to where the corruption is and why it is, and to explain to us why it is irreprehensible criticism. [[The president calls.]] Of course, when it is corruption, we say corruption. It is not wise to keep quiet.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u19	The president believes that this is the norm in its classical sense, since it refers to the right of members of Congress to protect themselves if they have been specifically aware. A political defense on behalf of a group of well - known people would hardly agree with that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u20	V.E.G. President. I'd like to look for President. So, at this council, I've proposed a number of national inquiries. One of the first ones I set out in mid - February to the highest. Secretary of finance, was about the influx of foreign ventures to Iceland. That request has not been answered, and I do not remember hearing from the President's request for delay in reply to it. My memory may be mistaken, and I may not be here at the beginning of any meeting. But I want to pray to the highest. The president should be aware that this inquiry is not possible to explain that it is urgent that the answer be made before and before we pause for the election. Therefore, I would be kind to the president to press after that at the highest level. Secretary of the budget for the answer to this inquiry.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u21	I'm sure it's time to grant the senator's request. The President will arrange for a hearing from the Ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u22	A respectable president. I took those words out of my mind. paritaprevir Brurt, Brynjar of Níelsson, personally. I'd like to begin with the next session of committees. It assumes that the budget is at work at all times, simply always, in all the bad guys, all the rooms assigned to meetings with the plot until the end of the day. 18 every day, starting at 8 a.m. - Eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight... I don't see that I really have time to prepare my work and my inquiries to the recruitment process at any other time. I'm busy all day. I don't think it's a good idea that when the government gives up the budget late, Congress runs up to and fro and sacrificing professional practices to squeeze some form of payment on a whole financial program in no time. I don't think that's an acceptable procedure. [[The president calls.]] In the past, I was talking about the growth of the Generals and the tips the council received about professional employment. [[The president calls.]] Please fix this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u23	Mr. President. During the same day, I reviewed the words of the current president of the council, which he had in his own time given to the then president of the General Assembly, who then called the president a guide director. As then, I'm not going to put that title on the current president, but the program of the budget committee next week is a strong line of assemblywork. We're supposed to have a review of every plot at 4,500 billion dollars. It's a budget plan in four days. In effect, this program of committees shows that for some people the Senate is nothing more than the executive office. We're just supposed to take care of things fast and we're just not going to make any changes, as the examples show. Remember, the financial policy received 80 tips and comments, and the greater part decided not to make any changes. Mr. President. This doesn't go anywhere. Let us change this work and stop viewing the Council as one of the minister's clocks. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u24	Mr. President. Now, for the first time, I have to disagree with a member of my team, okay? paritaprevir Ágúst, Ólafur, the son of Ágústsson, uses the word conveyor belt. You're right, we're a down payment agency. I'd much rather compare the situation here to such a typsy prize ball from the Icelanders, where we'd blow and take a long break between them. What has been the result? Less prominence and production than other nations live in. I think we need to start taking this workout for a reexamination. So we warned that if it was the highest. A financial minister would not do the law and publish the financial program at the right time would lead to our being overloaded. The other committees also have little time to prepare their response. So right now, we're standing at the assembly, but if this assembly was reasonably efficient and we had the opportunity to think about criticism, not getting into this intolerable crust we're in right now, it would be okay.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u25	A respectable president. Yesterday, a U.S.A. statement announced that children less than 18 years of age were not expected to be treated with Vogi. This is an attempt to ensure that this situation does not occur today that a teenage girl may have been abused during treatment. But what can be done? Since the year 2000, we have received our troubled children. Is there any difference between being seriously ill at 17 years of age or 16 or 18 years of age? What will happen to these children, a respectable president? I'm calling out for our children. It is unacceptable that, every week, nine of them enter breathlessness as a result of an overdose of opioids and possibly five youths died from that abuse in January. I call for action for our children.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u26	The president reminds us that these members of Parliament have requested to discuss the President's meeting board.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u27	President. I must agree with other senators'comments about our procedure in the implementation of financial programs. Well, to be honest, I'm just a little bit thinking, we're going through the fast, hard work cycle. I never howl for a lot of work, so I don't worry about being on the budget next week and finishing the schedule set up there, but I ask myself, " Why? ' That's very obvious when we're talking over 5 you're talking about. In five years, we're talking about a long-term policy threshold for a fund, that this work is set up so that the council is not supposed to do anything about it. The Senate is not meant to win anything with this document. The government has spent months preparing for this project, and the council intends to complete the case in a week or ten days. We spend a good deal of more and more hard work discussing the budgets of each year. I'm telling you right now, we might as well skip it like we're going to win it like this. [[The president calls.]] This has no purpose, it is obvious that the council is not meant to do anything about it. [[The president calls.]] We barely scratch in the surface of this program with the practices set up here. Well, let's just get this done and do it some other way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u28	A respectable president. In terms of the work done in the payment of a Senate arrangement for financial programmes for the years 20191⁄223, I have to say that I feel that people are a little bit small about where we have come to develop the discussion of government policy. When they say the discussion is too shallow, the council is not set aside enough time, etc. I also feel embarrassed about what can be accomplished in many days at a chamber where we have taken three days, as well as on financial committees and other committees that can address the matter. It is all part of the discussion and can have a future effect. All I'm saying is that if we can't use the calendar to complete a five-year policy at the World Council for a nation of 340,000 people, we might as well not be trying to steer millions of societies or hundreds of millions of society because the Congress that is doing the same work in such societies is as many days in the calendar year. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u29	V.E.G. President. I just want to introduce what's been presented in a case or something. Congress members, please. And to the council of Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, and to Ágúst the Ólafur of Ágústsson, and to the voice. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson agreeed. I can easily understand these tips on stress. Yes, those are the scheduled days of the committee. We have no choice but to make the most of our time and to add time to professional committees that meet with the Ministry and Ministers where the responsibility lies in each topic field. Instead of meeting the professional committees, we used this time to add to the financial committees. It means that we put the meetings on the committee days and found things stiffer than that. On the way, we're saving time, spending a little more time, that's right, but this is mainly time savings.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u30	A respectable president. Of course, the discussion has matured, but I don't think so, unfortunately. There's plenty of days. This need not be a matter of time savings. There's a lot of days in May that don't come up with meetings or committees. Committee meeting can be held in those days. You can have more committees and meetings in June. There's plenty of time left. We're not going on vacation, even if Congress and committee meetings are over in June. We will continue to work, of course. I'll do at least CYP3A4 inhibition by CYP3A4 and CYP3A4 is not I do, and I might as well show up at some committee meeting, too, or some congregation meeting. I make a comment to this regular program because it falls on a professional job that has been said to be the most professional job in the world. When such a program is held there, the preparation, the information, and the professional work we do there will be affected. It's just that way. There's no denying that. I call out that we give ourselves the time that the committees have to use to do the most important work, making room for us to give of ourselves professionally. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u31	Mr. President. I'm not gonna be in any kind of trouble. All I care about is this work to do something good. I'm not complaining at all. We're having a two-month intermission for local elections, and we can easily do some committee work. We can easily work farther into the summer. I don't think I've been standing in front of a school as long as possible, since I was in high school. I know you're not gonna find anything to do with yourself in the summer resort, but I'm just saying that if the council is simply intended to sign this program, it might as well be presented as a financial programme for the Commission's presentation. On the other hand, if the council is to take this program for some concierge treatment and become involved with the forces that continue to fuel the expense of the state's funds, it is to have something to say whether it is presented in a careful, realistic manner, and ultimately in accordance, the council must simply take time to review the matter. [[The president calls.]] I'm not complaining about sitting on meetings at the time. 8◯18, but I would like to have time to prepare and review the conclusions of such a review. That's not the time we're giving you.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u32	Mr. President. We're not complaining about workloads. We're not complaining about the calendar wound either. We're pointing out that the entire Ministry is expected to complete its tour of 4,500 billion dollars. plan four days next week. I would have thought it was the highest. A minister wanted a careful discussion and a discussion of the council on this big plan. I don't think the discussion is quite mature enough to complete this tour in the way it is planned for next week. We're not talking about extending the council until the summer, just using Congress days better than this one. It'll be interesting to see the rest, and we'll ask for the end of the game. Once we have settled this financial program, let's see if the council will make any changes. It will be interesting to see if a greater proportion of the legal committee trusts to make the only change in budget of 4,500 billion. It will be interesting to regret all the work ahead of all committees and members of the council whether there will be any change in plans or not. Then we may be able to discuss the real purpose of the work ahead of us at the workplace. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u33	A respectable president. I'm always ready to discuss how we can improve our work ethic. This was a fine talk at 2:30 in the morning, where we had a great deal of pleasure with the type of work that we have established in public finance. There was harmony among those who said that we were on the right track, that we needed to strip off a problem. I'm interested that we do it together. In the face of a crime of not introducing this Saturday before the Passover, March 31, but April 4 is out of the question. Kids! We're talking about three or four days. That we're calling a plan, that we're just some sort of down payment agency? First round. lasted over 20 hours. There's an entire committee ahead, and then there's a second. Do not belittle ourselves by referring to the fact that all these work means that we are just a time - set. As far as I have a lot to do on committee week, I'm really happy to discuss it in quieter ways that we can plan the work better. I'm on two committees and all my committees are like this. We've been meeting all these days. There's a problem. If they complain that the committees and work in financial programs will set aside the time to prepare queries for Ministers, would they not be mistaken? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u34	V.E.G. President. I'd like to talk to you about organization on committee days next week. To prevent all misunderstandings, we are at a budget board that put together time with other professional committees and try to complete a minister's presentation and strategy. This gives us more time to discuss the matter. That's what this is about. We'll have to wrap this up next week, that's right, but we'll have a deeper discussion. It's not running out on this one week. We get more time on that subject, that's what we're looking at. Let's be absolutely clear that this week's discussion is not being completed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u35	Now it's the end of the previous round. on budgetary plan 2019/2023. The spokesmen, or members of all councils, will receive up to ten minutes each. Those answers will not be allowed. V.E.G. The secretary of the budget will close the discussion, and it will also have up to ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u36	Mr. President. It's good to live in Iceland. Sometimes I wonder, " What kind of power is in most of us? ' We regularly hear reports of sports, literature, art, business, research, science, and amazing experiences that we are not more than 340,000. Here, too, is greater than in many parts of the world, and there is equal equality between the sexes. True, the standard of living has improved dramatically in recent decades. However, while the average standard of life has improved, we do not live or move in the averages and indicators, and each person who is unable to make a living is of great importance. We're not getting any feed on the centrals. A large number of ordinary employees, the elderly, and the desperate are not able to make ends meet, and they may even have to abstain from medical or other activities. Young people's possessions are bad, and many families are driven into an expensive and insecure tenet, with bad results for both family and children. Poverty is a national disaster in a rich country like Iceland and it should be the first priority of every government to act to save those populations. In addition, there is great discrimination in this country and even though it may be. less than anywhere else is a serious problem in Iceland. The richest 1% of the population increased its pure estate by 53 billion dollars. During 2016, the group has more pure possessions than 80% of the population mentioned. Infinity is increasing, and wealth is increasing as well as decreasing. The latest financial statistics show that Iceland's richest family grew much more than anyone else. More and more international studies show that communities with much better equations are more peaceful, varied, and competitive. It should be the most urgent project of every government to attack the growing inequities and corruption in Iceland, but when it comes to the financial program of the Government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, it is found that these projects are being placed on ice. After the promises of the last election, many waited for this important piece of trust to show the priorities of the government in black and white. Although a man might surmise about what would be in the government's financial programme, I have to admit that I allowed myself to hope that the influence of the left greens would be better enough to deal with the emergency problems of various infrastructures, take up the defense of low and intermediate carers, as well as to soften the uncontrolled right course of the Independence Party when it comes to tax issues. Now there is a financial program that foretold and the beautiful promises left green from it in elections, better than ◯gergers, have come to nothing. More and more families enjoy child - rearing. The number of supportive families has decreased by more than 12,000 since 2013, and it appears that this policy of cuts should continue under the leadership of the left green. There will continue to be child damages that far below the minimum wage. Such a decrease will contribute to more poverty among working people, while the poverty among children is greater than that of childless families. Poor family members could be faced through the housing system, but they will remain in ruins. Despite the loud call of reforms, the government's budget is further cut down after a major cuts in the previous year. The financial program lacks all ambition to build rented apartments. Nothing is listened to the labor movement's demand for further structure of the commercial cab spray. Nothing is done for the poor or tenants trapped in the poverty trap of the rented market. Besides, colleges are making money, and high school has reached endurance levels. Only one third of what was promised at the university is expected, and high school is not getting anything that matters. In other words, the coin that was saved by the three - year - long shortening of the study should flow into the Kingdom Box, not to promote high school. In the North, however, knowledge and education are looked to as an investment along with the structure of the welfare system. The government's plan simply does not reflect the grandness foretold, and I'm actually very concerned about her ambition in education matters. It is not just a matter of future life. It is also very hard to deal with in the country. In addition, contributions to culture, art, sports, and youth are directly cut down in the next five years. The elderly and the desperate have long waited for compensation, since contributions will only increase to the right level for growth in this group. In fact, the head of the Corporate Community has called this policy of poverty and misery. Your healthcare system is breaking up. Health contributions are sure to increase in new financial programs and funding for the construction of new land hospitals, even if that were so. But it will not be built overnight and unclear how much donations are being made to improve the environment of the hospital in the meantime. The political party policy is usually characteristic of the classes and is usually used to locate groups from right to left. In principle, independence classes and VGs disagree about the role of the tax system. The former feels that it is merely the role of the tax system to provide needed income and talk about the simple system. The latter has also spoken of a stepwise tax system and wants income balance to be considered. However, neither seems to be the case. In the financial program there are 203/430 billion incomes left, and the tax reductions reported are best used at the expense of low- and intermediate groups. A decrease in the lower tax level by 1 percent is called a decrease in income of 14 billion dollars. This change, however, works best for those with the highest income. The people at the lowest salary get 3,000 bucks. During a month while the highest salary will receive 9,000 bucks. On the other hand, if a personal discount had been raised about 3,000 years ago. would have cost 8 billion dollars. 6 billion dollars could have been used. to promote child - welfare and housing support. That way would increase the equation, but the changes announced here are increasing inexorably, which has already become too much in our society. The financial program is, in effect, tailoring the tax system to the interests of the rich, who, of course, would not be surprised if the Independence Party was alone in government, but it is not. He's under the seat of a social list. The financial program says that banks should be reduced to less than 6 billion dollars. and that should change the capital tax so that only money owners in the country, the same as already collected most of the new wealth created, will be protected from inflation. On the other hand, when the government of state affairs restores inflation, the public will have to pay off. It is unwise to yield this income at the top of the economy while attacking permanently and certainly the necessary expansion. This is no way to make the best of the years. On the contrary, this policy calls for higher growth and inflation. They're stepping the fuel supply to the top of the lift without making money for expenses. As a result, if the most optimistic predictions are not to be made, the cutting knife will take off - and what will happen first? Yes, the welfare. Experience shows that it is getting closer to a decline and that the fall could be even higher. In fact, this includes both economic failure and election fraud, in which a major offense in the infrastructure is far from the praise of elections. The nation's call has to be answered after the necessary development and the granting of the election for all classes, but it is not the next day that they revere their words to secure several ministers. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u37	Mr. President. The financial strategy that has been seen here has led to disappointment. I've traced this to my previous speeches and so forth. were taken into the interest of the employee and the organization of the industry. The big news in this regard is that the plan brings no good news to those who are living in the community. The late bank has specifically warned of the economic regime that appeared to us here. There is no top priority in the government's list of popularity, child reforms, and housing support. There is clear evidence in this program. The financial agenda is economic optimism as investments decline, the number of tourists, the debt of households is increasing, and economic growth is going down. The reviews and warnings received from professionals are not heard. It is not noted that the income of the state's budget could quickly be drawn together. The baseline values that should be followed in accordance with official financial laws are not observed. There is no mention or consideration for the release of collective agreements at the end of the year. The changes that have occurred within the labor movement have given every reason to believe that any future bargains will be difficult. New leadership has taken over, as in the VR and Ephling, and new leadership will soon be seen by ASI in the coming autumn. This new leadership has declared great dissatisfaction with the government's financial plan. It's not a good thing for the government to get into a future dresser interview. The lack of understanding of the government's affairs on low-payers is a message from the labor movement on this strategy. It's a sentence that's going to bring some stigma in a future dress interview. Words such as ◯Develop into the sum of the new program are to be read, viewed, reviewed, and reviewed, as well as developed, in many parts of the program. That's a little more vivid. It's less common for terms such as making a ◯ and enforcing a way of doing it. Basically, this plan is optimistic when it comes to wealth, wealth, and economic growth. That is a problem with what appeared in the main majority of their narratives received by a financier of financialism, and I've mentioned here. It is positive that during the financial program, there will continue to be effort to reduce the debt of state funds and toward the end of the period, i.e. In 2023, the target should be that the debt rate as part of GDP will be reduced to 21%. Interestingly, in many respects the debt status of the state fund is much stronger than it was before a collapse. It divides the central stability proposal as the chairman of the Central Party led by a firm and supreme degree. Recently, the prime minister gave him special thanks during the discussions at the council. While it is important to pay off debt, it needs to be discussed openly here whether it is wise to pay off debt and, at the same time, is like the road system that is being damaged. It is similar to spending nothing on maintenance of your house, and eventually it falls into value and even becomes unusable. Forests such as road systems are valuable that must be maintained, especially for safety reasons. As we have seen, for the next three years since 2019, the government is going to add another 5.5 billion to its special transport campaign. A total of 16.5 billion. It has been shown that it will be financed by bank payments. In this regard, it may have been possible to double this amount if the government had stood up in the Abilon Bank case. It should be noted that in a few days, after the government sold the state stocks of Arion's bank under price, the bank reported that there was room to pay interest to stockholders of 80 billion. There was a state fund of at least 10 billion, thanks to this unsatisfactory government in this matter. Mr. President. This financial program does not depend on the large words that the government has established on building roads. While there is a need far greater, as everyone knows. In health care, it is not surprising to continue the construction of the Land Hospital on Ring Road. There, political groups, such as the advance party, have betrayed their voters in a memorable way. The promotion promised a new hospital in a new place before elections, and even the same was done. A press conference in Vifilas to underscore its promise. The contribution of the health institutions to the country to the Member States cannot be specifically increased. The chapter on agriculture is interesting. First of all, the government is clearly not concerned about a customs agreement with the European Union, which will take effect on May 1. To meet the great impact of the customs contract will bring on domestic agricultural production, there are no counterrequisite measures in the financial programme. In the next five years, agricultural contributions will be reduced. It will be late to say that this government is something special to farmers. More lawsuits might be mentioned here, but because of the time, it has to wait. Mr. President. The truth is the most intense of all, saying the saying. This appeared to us in the conference hall yesterday in a memorable way in a talk of the highest order. The prime minister of the financial program when the person here pointed to the fact that the hedge fund was those who welcomed this financial program, but they have a reduction of 2 billion in this program. Older civilians and poor people don't celebrate. I understand the highest. The prime minister is angry with the need to stand in front of the nation and tell them that it is now necessary to reduce the bank tax rate by 5.7 billion, stand in front of the nation, and say that now it is necessary to move the hedge funds at the Council of Copenhagen to a decrease of 2 billion and that they have received enough from this government. I understand the highest. The prime minister is angry that he cannot correct the interest of older citizens and amortate a cent in return to the loss of disability because the independent party forbade her to do so. V.E.G. Prime Minister should direct his anger to the proper authorities. She chose to have the Independence Party as the backseat driver, it has always been known that the independence party's special interest is to reduce taxes to financial companies. Similarly, older citizens and disability have not been on the priority list in that category. To call up the debate of senators who point to the truth in this matter of nonsense is a typical case of unfounded prime minister who knows the blame, tips of his toes around his wealth, and does all that the Independence Party tells her to do. The political commander of the left green, Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, is at the peak of his political career. It has become the nation's prime minister, and the nation has looked up to it as a spokesman to those less lenient in society. I was late expecting, Mr. President, that she was standing here in this chair and speaking of reducing bank taxes to financial companies and hedge funds, but unable to cancel a cent against a cent for disability and improving the interests of older citizens. These are the facts that prime minister must live with, this is what the financial program of the Government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter will be remembered for.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u38	Mr. President. Already the first round. As to the financial plans of the Government of Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir has come to an end, there is every reason to say thank you. Councilmen and the highest. advisers for the discussion. Many viewpoints have been presented, and much work lies ahead in committee work. There are pleas for increased expenses in various litigation categories. At the same time, there has been a view that the situation is indiscriminate. Even if we disagree in many matters by saying that nothing is done, do not talk down what is well done. I don't think it's a good thing to hit the pot and pull the reins at the same time, and it's unlikely that we'll be able to get together on all these indications. But I trust members of Congress to uphold their views for the remainder of winter's affairs. The discussion has been good and perplexing. At least I've got the best job to do on committee jobs in the next few weeks. The arrangement of the discussion has been that there has been a fine time to talk to and is a good time for each Ministerial Minister. This is the third development of a financial budget, all of which have been done under special circumstances. It is quite clear that the comment that has been made about the way the work is going. I trust that a thorough analysis of the financial resources of the advisers will take place on how to work more systematically and do better. Mr. President. Katrín's Jakobsdóttir's budget is a building program, a reform program. We're spending large amounts of money on the common resources and investments of the infrastructure. I'm proud of this plan. There is good reason to stress that this is a plan we can be happy with, and we plan to invest for 338 billion in social infrastructure in the coming years is the basis for the plan. We are building up and we will continue to do so. In the same way, we will have an injection of all of our most important activities together; our health, education, welfare and transportation systems. We said before the election that the community of health care is fundamental, that there must be an increase in donations to public health care, that patients must be stopped, and that health care needs to be improved as the first stop. Thus, the priority in the financial program of the Government of Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, is for the benefit of all. Health contributions increase by 40 billion each year, in addition to the 20 billion we put in budgets of this year, and thus can ensure the funding of health institutions, reduce patient payment, and continue to improve the availability of mental health services throughout the country as requested. There are many urgent tasks on the board of the government, and one of them is meeting the microenergy pensioner stakeholders' stakeholders for improving the social security system to improve the cost. The financial programme accounts for a significant increase in annual donations for microenergy pensioners. It will increase by 4 billion and an additional 20 billion collection, and funds will be expected to meet demographic development at this time. The results of the discussion of reform will then lead to changes in sums of money when annual reviews are made and the results are in progress. Therefore, it is not difficult to say that this group is completely left behind than we are, that I believe, all of us agree that it is always possible to do better and do it more quickly. In the last few years, all classes of older people have been hailed, and half a billion have been put this year to reduce dental records for older citizens and disability, followed by 1 billion a year in the period of the programme. Fortunately, most older citizens live under a high standard of living, but not all of them, and they need to improve the terms of those with very limited or no pension rights and are out of a job market. This group should be considered, and special assessment of the most desirable revenue groups in Icelandic society should be made. There will be suggestions for improvement and will be followed up. In education schools have provided funds that gained the loss of study for a student's degree and that were actually added. That means making large sums of donations per student. For the university, this year's budget is greatly added to, 2 billion and less than 3 more in the next five years. We also need to put our work into finding out exactly what is happening between us and the average OECD countries, but it's not quite clear, as reported yesterday in the Education Minister's case. As always, environmental factors among the main focus of the left green were in the process of the last election. We have long noted the need for resource management to become self-sustained and to respond to human climate change as well as many other sources of environmental and resource support. The budget clearly shows the focus of the left green areas where environmental spending is increased by over one third, including budgets for the current year. There is less to it than this, and it is finally to expect that there will be more urgent tasks to be carried out in this area than before. We left the greens and said that we wanted to lead the next government and help build this place up. Too much time has been lost in recent elections. We said that in order to ensure low inflation and interest, a government policy would have to hold hands with money policy and must be built on the level of caution and the righteous divider of quality. That's what we're doing. But we do not do so alone. That is why it is also one of the most urgent tasks of this government to cooperate effectively with the labor movement and the labour market bodies, including to try to make peace with you about reimbursement of the income tax system. For example, there has been a review of changes in the arrangement of personal cards and interactions between partners, e.g. children's growth and improvement aims to reduce the tax burden of low and intermediate groups. We need to see here a whole system of government supportable families and support for housing costs. We plan to see a country in the fall months before the next year's budget is finished. Mr. President. We all know the discussion about the state of the road system. There has been a lack of maintenance, and far too many roads are giving way to the end of the winter, not talking about the rise of tourists in the roads. This was shown in the case of the transport and local minister yesterday, in answer to a question why. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otter's son Proppér, that one of the important tasks is to increase public transport, especially in meeting Iceland's commitments to climate. The government covenant tells us that we will support that work. The Ministry and the Road Type have entered the Joint Association in the capital area for that purpose. Now that we've published a financial program, we haven't finished our talks with our rural society, and no local community in the capital area has put in its three-year budget to go to this building. It was only to hear that he would not be pressured to have discussions after the local government elections in the rural areas. Especially with the local prime minister, I assure you, getting it all together will not be a complicated task. In other words, we are making a success of transportation. We add more than 5 billion to each year, making a annual contribution of about 16.5 billion. In addition, contributions to transport investments will be about 124 billion during the season of the programme. I ask people to be careful when they say nothing is done. Mr. President. Here, I have reviewed it in short, that we will use the space available to bring a powerful injection into the economy, now that economic growth is contracting faster than forecasts anticipated last year. This programme ensures the budget for the application for the Icelandic community, which is proclaimed in the government's policy declaration and is the reason for this government's creation. But we must also bear in mind, though expectations are enormous, and I realize that we will not resolve all the issues of society in a short period of time, but here we are truly starting the road. I've been watching the discussion for the past three days, and I look forward to committee work for the next few weeks. Now for the last whole week of winter, it is appropriate to be a little optimistic about the fine discussions that have been conducted here will lead to a good work in the committees. I trust we'll do it well, and we'll do it together.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u39	A respectable president. I'm going to allow myself to be a little more explicit in this talk, but I'm just as close as I am. I'll do it to emphasize how serious I think it is. First round. This financial program has not answered the many concerns I had in this regard. This discussion has only increased their concern. I realize that I can be wrong, but during my discussion, I specifically sought answers to why my concerns were not correct. Sadly, the answers were not good. The budget shows black people that there is an increase in expenses on the weak income markets in a cooling economy. It is simply not sustainable unless monotonous measures were involved. However, there is no clear explanation of the permanentity of the budget and the amount of a single exchange. It is obvious, however, that though there are some lasting expenses, it is seen from how many of the government's wishes have not been made up of this problem without the increase in income being opposed or profited at other locations instead. It is certainly a small increase in income, but it is a special income that is not generally intended for the costs of basic government services, such as. It's a carbon bill. What worries me is that when you point out this fact, rising expenses, and decreasing income, it does not answer direct words. Rather, it focuses on the level of debt that will be only finely due during this period, so that it will be all right only to run a money fund with a slight angle. This statement came from the last party I expected to say, the financial and economic ministers themselves. The 1st vice president of the budget calls this injection into a cooling economy. 1st vice president of the budget board, Haraldur Benediktsson, expressed it, by permission of president: T-minus signatures are shrinking. Is it not reasonable, then, that we turn down the tax pool and increase the government spending to cover that end? That's the main message in this financial policy. This says the 1st vice president of the budget board as a response to economic forecasts that enables smooth landing into what many would say is relatively sustainable economic growth. I have some things to check, but all right, it's very good to get this out, then we know. It cannot be read in the financial program's text that it is being spit into a cooling economy, but to those who do it, it looks like it. So I view it as confirmed by those words. 1st Vice President of the budget board. This simply shows the importance of the discussion and the questions we ask to convey these messages. A respectable president. We have a problem, as noted in a financial conference, that our economic models are uniform and have produced inaccurate results. One reason is that the models are not allowed to take into account government policies. They only measure the consequences of policy, but they do not use it as variables to see how policy affects the future. At the same time as the secretary of finance says that the current economic forecasts must be used correctly, they are also treated with the measures described above, increased expenses, and reduced income stocks. Given this key message and that the aim of the budget seems to be to increase economic growth, re-enforce the spell, it is only hoped that the models will never produce the right results. All of this then adds ideas that if everything goes down, it will always be possible to fix the situation by just getting more money or selling a bank. How was that in the years before a crash? Was it not then, and this was sold to finance, e.g. A New Land Hospital for the Price? Where did they eventually go? Didn't they just go into debt again? For some, it has been said that, fortunately, the debt of the state's funds was good for failure, otherwise we would have owed much more. But I can tell the exact same story with another end, if it hadn't been so clearly sold on banks, it wouldn't have been a collapse. I'm not drawing that story out of some hat, you can find this version in chapter 6 of the Alduary Commission report on the fall of banks. What I read from this financial program is an incredibly irresponsible economy, here I refer to this bare-word discussion that I mentioned earlier, which is to be done with only a little time or selling state property because it has to be done with the good things. Don't get me wrong, I agree that the good stuff must be done, but it must be done right and in a responsible, sustainable and transparent way. The evidence is important because it is important to say where and how to go. This results in stability and stability. The financial policy presented here says a lot about who but nothing about how, just raising expenses, and reducing income income. When considering where to go according to the complete list, it does not match the amount given. It is impossible to gather all the items listed with the money provided in this financial plan, money, and projects that do not match. At least the project is not explained, how much it costs, and what cost it is, so we cannot look at it for any criticism. Well, I hope that's a good thing for the Committee job then. When I ask more about how to get it together, how to match the money offered to the projects, I get answers that the next year's budget should be updated. A respectable president. It just doesn't work. The reason we're setting a five - year plan is to get a sense of leadership and firmness in the state's affairs. It's not just putting some numbers in the next year, 2020/2023, they have to translate something. Otherwise, we're just wasting the council's time on empty numbers. And what kind of respect for the Council? What kind of expansion of the Generals' work is that? It's only a waste of time if the numbers over 2019 are just empty and can really change enormously. That's at least The message I got from yesterday's discussion. A respectable president. Indeed, there are many challenges. We knew that when we walked to the election. A fall. It is necessary to complete a new area of land, the housing market is far from normal, the chicken fight is just around the corner, and at the same time when everyone is getting out of a good swing, no one can afford to be useful to those who earn money. The vomit has come, is about to go, and see who put it in their pockets while everyone else is experiencing the evil bread crumbs theory. Injured because it is just the crust and the dry bread that falls off the table to those who are not allowed to sit on it. A respectable president. I'm going, with the permission of the president, to quote the Supreme Court's answer. Prime Minister Katrín, daughter of Jakobsdóttir, to the decision - to - command of the prime minister of the last government: ▪ The increase in wealth is directly due to political decisions that have so far been made that no taxes can be taxed; no taxpayers such as ordinary employees can be taxed; no high - raise levels can be put on a significant amount of income, such as those to make money in credits that many members of the Parliament may make zealous talks about, but they are willing to work through the tax system. A respectable president. The growing dissension of power comes directly from political decisions that have been so far that it must not be activated by democracy, that it must not allow the people to control what is the role of the chosen ones, that the system should not be disturbed, and when pierced by the self - righteous system, the guard's dogs will move into a speech chair and keep jealous speeches, but they will be so eager to take on the system and join it. It was a political decision to form a government allowing a minister to lie to the nation in the government of the minister of finance. It was a political decision to form a government that allows a minister to allow a whole new level of judgment to upset the position of the Minister of Justice. It is a political decision to raise expenses and reduce taxes. When big talk comes and goes and the inflation takes off, don't blame the paymen. Point to the financial program of this government and the economic mistakes it makes, do not blame others. Axe responsibility for your own actions.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u40	V.E.G. President. We're dealing with a national budget program for the 2019◯23. In the beginning, I want to express satisfaction with the arrangement that has been in the past. ... aboutit. You could say we're here in the third and final in this previous round. I feel that the discussion has been perfunctory, and I would especially like to say that a conversation with a professional minister is very successful; the discussion is intended to deepen as it can be expected in a previous issue. ... aboutasexactlyas such a plan is. In my first speech on the subject, I discussed the legal ground, the public financial laws, the equipment and the process, the overall policy development process, which is part of such a financial agenda; the state financial policy in this context, with its financial regulations and baselines, where the frame of the program is developed, and the budgets based on policy and plan. At the same time, I've discussed the fact that, um... Four months from the highest. The government presented and confirmed its government contract, it has provided funding for 2018, a government policy adopted as a concierge at the World Council of March 22. and here we will discuss further the implementation of causes and the relevant issues of that policy. Of course, it's just unbelievable in such a short time, but I think it's important here in my previous year. To adapt the terms of the state-of-the-art financial strategy to policy and treaty to the highest. Governments. What I feel about the discussion here has led me to say - if I evaluate this from the criticism that has been presented in debates. Parliamentaries and their conversations at the highest. Minister - is mostly to the highest. That is exactly what the government is doing when it comes to enforcing his purposes as reflected in a government covenant. V.E.G. The government put in order to strengthen social infrastructure, and already in its covenant, it stressed that economic strength is the basis for the real building of infrastructure, building up of our largest systems, health systems, transportation systems, education systems and welfare systems; the basis for confidence in future social stability, that it is good to live, that we in addition to our quality of life, and that we will live in the best interests of future generations. This was stated in the government covenant. Governments, the main theme and the position of government funds and the responsible government's affairs for the future are the basis for us to follow these plans. This plan may be referred to by itself, investment is in the interior, and it was a key focus of importance. Governments. These are planned for budgetary investments and budgets for them by the year 2019/2023, a $338 billion. The project is to trust and maintain economic stability as the basis for continuing growth, which is certainly predicted to be less than the previous losses; as measured by gross domestic product, 2016 is the highest. All of this goes to the government budget, government funds, rural society, government business, money business, work market development. I'm going to quote here in the PSUR on page 30. 16 with the President's permission. It says: This laid the groundwork for continued opportunities, commercial power, and well - being of all the people of the country. It refers to maintaining economic stability, economic growth, and purchase potential, the increased concentrations that have been achieved here, and we can include. see in the recent report of the Federal Bank, which is involved in financial stability. It shows that the strength of the households has not been so strong for nearly 20 years, two decades. When we consider our debts, the debt has not been better, whether it was measured by gross domestic product or income or property. This is important. It is important not only that the state funds are successful or are successful and that we cooperate with our local, public, or commercial, companies in general but not least as part of our economy. It is true what has come to pass, and it has been pointed out that history is not loyal to us when it comes to soft landings. The fact is, though, that economic growth is diminishing, and less tension allows for the expansion of the next year. True, it has been very clear here in our discussion that there is a significant increase in expenses, real value. However, it has also been observed in the discussion that many areas are not enough to do. It is, of course, so big a matter that touches the whole area that there are certain things to be gleaned. There is no debate that there is a significant increase in expenses for these large systems. Health costs will increase in the period by 19% in actuality, cumulatively, about 40 billion in 2020, 57 billion, including the budget year. By that time, there will be medical expenses 2023 at 249 billion dollars. V.E.G. The government put much emphasis on improved health care, and it was seen when the last financier, 2018, had an increase in real value of more than 9%, and the cost of spending comes on a yearly basis on the price of 2018 to 249 billion, as I said. Health expenditures account for 29% of the total budget of 2018. If we take the whole welfare and welfare department, social, housing and insurance business, we'll have 56% of this Ministry of the whole budget of the 2018 budget. There are tremendous challenges and the highest. The government is indeed meeting them because for these issues, social, housing and insurance, 28 billion will be cumulative over the period of 14% actual increase. That's in accordance with the prices of 2018. By this year, approximately 4 billion are already going to undergo a system change in order to improve the quality of biofuels to the highest. During a conversation, the minister of social matters answered what. Senators. How important it is that these funds become useful and that they work as high as possible! Minister announces return to a real dresser. We must follow closely. It was shown by the highest. Health Minister, Svandís Svavarsdóttir, to be stressed, and this has even been a factor. they are discussed with each other. The budget, to pay close attention and call for effective and effective guidance in each field when talking about the same amount of money. This is something we need to take a close look at the years to come. In a practical way, I'd like to finally say, "It's important to be successful and to maintain the success that has been achieved. ' This plan is reasonable, this is a plan of reason, and we now note helpful previous ones. involved in the work of professional committees and further discussions and reviews. I suppose we'll take it to heart when we do. It's a legal committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u41	Mr. President. This is a turning point, and it is only natural to begin with the new arrangement set up by the financial structure of a government fund made up of new laws on public finance and the rule of the whole of law, the law of 2015. Clearly, in this process there are things that could have been done better. Perhaps everyone is on a slight course of learning, so we can expect the next opportunity to have various baits. Indeed, when we predict the future in a material way, there is a real problem, especially in the economic system that is put together as ours. The government has a little pity on the project to support economic forecasting from February on a plan designed for the next five years. In contrast with such uncertainty, it would have been reasonable to put more emphasis on how the plan would respond if significant variations were made from the economic forecasts available. The so - called staging analysis is not a new invention and has been practiced in a variety of ways and would have dealt well with it, so that it was not further said, that in this program it had more been proposed as to what might go wrong and/or otherwise than intended and predicted - and in the specific points on how to react. It's not that much of a plan as big as it is here. There are truly positive factors there. I reiterate what I have said before, aims and plans for reducing the debt ratio of the government are a very positive part of this program, and there are factors that might be similar. As I've allowed myself to point out in my previous talks, it seems to me that in this program it stands out that in spite of the high economic situation at this time, and has been in the process of dying, those in our society are not getting the attention and not the help they needed in this program. It's the big political message in this program, it's the same government, and it didn't consider it possible to improve social security unless it was 4.7% on the last budget. It's some number that was just taken from space in no relation to any economic reality or later economic development. There is no way to answer that question, and no answers have been received about the source of that number. People are getting used to this, and the political messages on the part of this government are very clear. I'm going to allow me to call attention to a synonym made by members of the group of Stockholm and two members of the Central Party to recognize the facts that the lowest income is not enough for the information required by the public. So, of course, if I refer to the alimony criteria that appear on the Board's Homepage, the Ministry of Health, further stated. The concept of accepting these facts is an arrangement, a fact that cannot be expected to pay taxes on income that does not cover forwards. Let us see how that decree is handled. The position of people who are equipped here for improvement by the government is in order that they are an intelligent poverty trap that has been wrapped around these people, and when they, in the power of self-rescue efforts, are striving to improve their own benefits, if they have energy, in the case of disability, and by increasing their work and by increasing their income, the arrangement is established in such a way that they are restored as much under the merits of what is called a dollar. In this regard, each dollar is certainly left behind. In contrast with this attitude, however, there is a very clear view that this government seems to have toward other people. Those who are on the other side of life, the government is playing a trick here that it's going to reduce capital taxes, a special tax from financial institutions, up to 6 billion in this year. Of these, 2 billion go to a bank owned by hedge funds. What does this mean, Mr. President? This means paying for the proposals and purchases of these parties from the state fund. Each dollar to the reformers is listed, but $2 billion is paid to the employees of the hedge fund - no problem, my dear friend. This is natural generosity and generosity, but it is expressed toward those parties rather than to those who are in the best interests of their lives. All that is to be postponed is to suggest that there are plans and schemes and that you should just wait and be calm; this is a plan once, and that you should read it as well as all of this. Of course, there is another key factor that stands out in this financial program, and some have made up here a subject, but it is up to one point, that the big initiative to limit to 16.5 billion total, 5.5 billion a year for three years, in addition to what others might have been. They know about the meaning of the term here, this large inner force must, as it were, be sufficient for tunnels of the shorter type. I'd like to also mention it regarding the plans that are in between, and promise that a good mind should not be minimized, which can be assumed to be behind it. But they should know that the way things are being handled and that they will go for the fulfillment of what might be calculated as a promise to the number of deserts. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u42	Mr. President. I don't think I've ever heard a big offense mention as often as in a discussion about the financial policy of this government, and of course it's a pleasure to see that as all classes in the discussions before the last election put emphasis on the priorities of the state funds towards the well - being, the building of the infrastructure, and the advancement of educational systems. That is positive, and, of course, should be welcomed. I don't think there's much controversy at the council, that it's necessary and correct priorities. Of course, it may be good to smile at the repeated use of large attendances, although it is certainly a matter of improving only a previous financial plan, but it is not in such a way that it is reasonable to believe that a special and sudden offense has been made. On the contrary, if we are going to be fair, I think it was given a very large and more emphasis on these lawsuits and the increase in the rate of government spending to them in recent years. This was not started with contributions from this financial plan or budget last year, nor did it start with budgeting the last year, if that is the case. Government expenditures have been rising substantially since 2013, and I think it is reasonable to say that priorities for these projects were put ahead of the need. What lies ahead, however, is that we have been adding up our expenses to the progress of the Kingdom Fund because of the very strongness of the Icelandic economy, and that has, of course, been said: It is just a matter of permanence to strengthen these systems on the basis of solid growth. Today, however, all signs of coldness are on the rise. But there is evidence to support further spending because we need to support the economy. It is true that it may be wise to make significant investments on the part of the State when we are down to the waves or when we are approaching it. We are still somewhere close to or at a climax, and it is required by the Federal Bureau of Justice that the State exercise care in order to create, for example. There is room for growing numbers, which is of utmost importance to our professional life. Therefore, it is important that the state shows in the circumstances of this particular department of business, that it is certainly prioritised to the most important projects, but the goal for a steady increase cannot be an independent goal in the government of the budget. Here, it seems to be the primary objective, some kind of Iceland record should be hit in expenses. The most interesting part is, when you then look at the goals set out in the budget and when we take into account those conversations that have been discussed here, e.g. to the Ministers, especially the Ministers of Ministers with the largest expenses, i.e. In education, health, welfare, it's just extremely vague. I think we have to make a great deal of improvement during the council, to sharpen their goals. What are the results? Take it, for example. In education, it is one of the main objectives that we achieve an average OECD for expenses at the university level. We do not even know where we are, there is no information about the financial agenda. It would be a good start to figure out where we are. Another excellent point to take the position is whether the cost goal alone is the sacred objective in this or whether it is the result of what we get out of the educational system that really matters. I think it's just the latter that matters. What are we getting for the funding being donated to the system? The same is true in the health system, it was done well in the discussion at the highest level. Healthcare Ministers that it has a very vague idea whether the health - care resources we already use are well spent on what they come up with are providing the efficiency we want to see. In the end, we are always asking that the quality of our ministry be of importance, not at any cost. It may be inexpensive if at high levels. To set up a five - year schedule with only a major goal of raising expenses is not a goal and certainly not a reasonable approach. There must be a much clearer view of what we would like to receive for our money, and that vision is to be reasonable, in some places to find in this financial programme, but not at all in these larger budgets, such as the welfare, health, and educational issues. I miss that. Such criticism can also be given to the last government, with goals similar to those of a previous financial program. I think we need to make a big difference. We need to have fewer financial goals. I think there's one 340 set of goals, I think it would be nice if we were to agree on a total of 40- and-and-a-half financial agenda, so we'll be more alert to see how we're doing. This is the fundamental problem in terms of our success in terms of the quality of the health system, that the quality of the quality of the health system is extremely few and the comparison is extremely difficult. If we look at the comparison between health and education in the OECD countries, we're going to deliver much of this quality, because we're not measuring them. That's the key. If we are going to succeed in our Kingdom affairs, we need clear quality, and we need to measure them. Increased expenses may not necessarily bring greater benefits. Each business they have involved well knows that often inexpensive solutions are the best ones. There's something else that's very obvious about not following a budget policy, as it's called here, that's exactly a conference. In this financial program, we do not have much discussion on how we can improve the success of the government, how we can manipulate it. How can we use the benefits of our personal enterprise in some areas, of assigned projects, of promoting a competitive state - of - state success just to get more results for less money? I really miss this one. When you look at this and the discussion that's been discussed, there's not a lot of politics in this national budget. It's just a tax Catholic. It is extremely easy to agree on the various things if everyone has enough money to do his dream work. When there is no need to set priorities when there is no need to refuse, compromise is very easy. But it is far more important, especially when it comes to well - being, that we cannot do everything at all times. That's what I'm most concerned about, by the long-term benefits of government spending at the economic growth we live in. You see, raising the expenses, not the investments, is mainly important. Granted, we are in an important building program in a new land hospital, but in the rest of the way, the budget is being greatly increased. I allow myself to claim that the state funds will not be able to afford this level of service during a midyear economic tour. We have an enormous amount of revenue because of the expansion of the economy now and we have seen that at all times in the economy, the influx into the state fund is tremendously strong, but short. Then, when private consumption is restored to normal balance, the rate of growth and economic profits only decreases. Of course, we need to be careful that we set the basic management of the budget so that there is rest on normal conditions in the economy, not just that we just crawl into plus a curve at the climax of the work. We have made this mistake before, and it may have been possible to respect the Independence Party for a vortex that he has never been particularly responsible for financial management, but left greens have recently had to clean up such a charge, and one would have thought that learning there was more than there is. On the other hand, we get better coverage on the budget of this important document, but I'm disappointed to see it the only journey still that despite all the warnings that have been given on the part of a number of parties on the economic grounds of this financial plan, it seems to me that we are going to ignore it. [[The president calls.]] This makes political responsibility even greater when reality begins to stare at us and regroups into the economy. [[The president calls.]] I think if a manager of some kind were to come in with a plan that would be followed out the quickest, he wouldn't have to come back to work. [[The president calls.]] This is not a responsible government policy. This is not a sustainable government policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u43	The president asks why. Councilmen respecting deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u44	A respectable president. Here at the end of the discussion, I would like to say a few words. First, I'd like to thank you very carefully for reviewing this first financial program of a new government and the time given at the council to discuss it in detail. It may always be expected that the policy of a new government is under way at the beginning of a terms when there are public financial lines in the future, but I don't feel that it was a very clear tone at the council. Some say during the discussion, such as why. Last speaker, w. The last senator who spoke here, Þorsteinn Víglundsson, that all too much is destroyed, that this is not responsible, is presented as an irresponsible policy. I expect those who speak that way will then suggest other plans, changes, new financial support for the State into the future in a committee program that is lost from the tax plans in this schedule and that reduces expenses. It will then be their responsibility to prioritize in the cutoff, compared with this document here, where it should preferably come down. It is primarily a matter of dealing with well - being and education, and then in transportation and other such factors, because humans will have to close their speaking. It does not work to make a mere statement that income supply cannot be reduced and that expenses cannot be increased as much as presented as this one, but then they do not. I'm here to refer to a new publication from the Federal Bank that was introduced yesterday. It only reviews the situation today. The domestic financial situation is stronger today than it has been for 20 years, a debt that has not been lower in 20 years, the debt of the households which has not been less in 20 years, and that has produced the most that we have seen in this same period. These indicate that we are on the right track. This publication assumes that we will continue to pay off debts, and we will keep to the right side of zero in the government. One of the talks delivered today stated that the independent party was known for not keeping much responsibility in public finances. I'm going to refer to the first thing that shows up in this latest publication and to the recent years, we've managed to pay up large amounts of debt, lower the interest rate of the state's budget, so we're getting back into the interest fees in the pre-traumatic ratios that are becoming very manageable. Also, I'm going to allow myself to refer to at least an inflation for a long time that I feel should always be a very special focus. I don't get tired of remembering that all my childhood in this country was inflation. She was over 20% every year, never subjecting herself to it since I entered a nursery and until I went to college. Never under 20% or much higher, 30, 40, there was a year when inflation went higher, but now we are living in a time in which we have been able to master the inflation, and I say to the full extent that the public funds contribute to the scales. Much of the criticism that has appeared here in the previous issue. facing economic forecasts. All I'm saying is that we have nothing more in our hands than the economic predictions that are published and we're living here on the Economics' economy. Humans may be able to question whether it will stand, but we will react. If it cools more quickly and decreases the income raise, it will call for action and will be guided by the financial policy we've just adopted, where we'll set up our plans for income and expenses. The most important part of this is the development of debt and the development and the future, as well as the warnings that men call for economic forecasts, they are certainly mentioned here in financial policy. It is pointed out that these are forecasts that take over the length of time and that are the decimals of gross domestic product and, as one looks further into the future, the less inaccurate science is being practiced by men here. As a result, you may be agreeing with the financial Council, which has said that we should be thinking about this in a space when we are looking so far into the future regarding the evolution and debt. I agree with that. What may have been the main reason in this discussion is the question: Do the laws as they do today suggest that we set them up for a certain period of time or not? I intend to cut that knot if it is necessary to make a legal adjustment, to suggest to the council, that we simply change the law on public finances so that we can refer to the future as being able to talk about our goals in a certain amount of time. This, of course, matters as you look beyond the future. This is important because when it comes to economic policy, something major needs to be made up for a review. In this respect, it is a bit difficult to work with goals that are set on decimal places. I'd like to let it happen here that there's been quite a surprise how little talk has been made about big issues, such as this. sales of finance companies. Today, the United States is the largest source of possessions in financial companies, considering the proportion of land production in Europe. No other government fund is taking a larger share of land production as a share in financial contributions. This should have given us more reason to talk about it as we look ahead of five years. To be honest, I was hoping that a larger portion of the discussion here would be about how far we should go in terms of the future ownership of the State. Truly, we are offering a complete independent discussion of this by starting this work of white literature. Yet, here we are expected to remember by some means, possibly selling or other measures, making money and making money - perhaps not income because of the money we already have received - to pay off debt during the planned period that is quite substantial or more than 100 billion. I will draw attention to the fact that if the state sold 100 billion shares or even more, even the whole thing in Iceland bank over the next five years, it would be the biggest privatization we'd ever made. Although we have not had much discussion on this matter, I expect it will be done at a later time. I mention this in my discussion about the development of debt and caution that men, many of them, want to see in public financial matters, show that there is more caution in handling these matters. Of course, there are enormous assets that could be further used to further increase safety in time, to reduce the State's risk of holding such an object, and to reserve the value of the sale for payment of debt and/or other building projects. I'm not going to be at the end of my speech to reiterate the key issues of this council resolution, they all came into my history at the beginning. I just think it's important to use this opportunity to say that we will, of course, react if economic forecasts change. It is a natural part of this work to have to do so. We go through this job every year. A person also criticizes his goal. But then I'd like to start by saying, "Well, we're at least at least Start discussing the goals of counseling for the first time by some knowledge. For the first time, we've set a numbered target here, timed. What is the goal? How does this relate to the government covenant? What's the situation today? What is the 2019 standard? And since 223 C.E.? I'm happy to hear all this talk about how we could do this better. But this is a whole new reality in all public financial discussions. So I'm going to use my last words to ask for a good cooperation with a financial committee. I will respond to each request from there for explanations and assistance in reading the basic data. [[The president calls.]] I thank you for a very special discussion here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u45	A respectable president. Although recent years have been overwhelming in politics, in Iceland and abroad, the main lines of foreign policy are clear, and the main points are the same as before: to ensure national security and defenses, economic interests and cultural independence of the nation, as well as to honor basic rights of human rights, human rights, and equality. During the one hundred years since Iceland became a free and sovereign state, with the Treaty 1918, these main lines have been the same, although the Icelanders have taken the first steps in foreign and protective affairs as part of the Danish kingdom. One hundred years ago, Iceland was officially engaged in the society of the nations, and the same began with other Western countries, which enjoy freedom and democracy, human rights, and free economy. World War II assured the Icelanders that the old neutral course no longer ensured peace and security. So it was necessary to withdraw from it and become part of the security community of Western democracy. The government covenant states: The government emphasizes that the national security issues are on a firm hold. Iceland's national security policy, agreed by the General Assembly, will be guided. The lines have also been clear in foreign trade. During the first few years of the Commonwealth period, the Icelandic government sent a representative, a so - called fishing representative, to make markets abroad. The few fishermen were out of the scope of a great business that the foreign service has done in recent years. Ever since the Icelanders took the foreign affairs into their own hands, foreign service has sought to secure export interests and to work on a national vacation store. Of these injuries, there is involvement in Europe's Free Trade and the European Economic Area. Iceland has had the wisdom to control its integrity in these matters, and the government has shaped a decisive stand on the European Union, as the Treaty states that national interests are best protected by continuing outside the European Union. With the sovereignty, Iceland's successful cohesion with the northern states began gradually. will continue to be one of the cornerstones of Iceland's foreign policy. The next year, Iceland's preeminence in the Northern Union, which also includes consultations with the Baltic States, spreads the Eastern Atlantic Union. This year, we also begin precociously in the Arctic Council, supporting scientific cooperation, sustainable use of resources, and indigenous issues in many areas. In view of the rapid change in the north, the member countries of the Council are being guided by the 17 UN's global objective of sustainable development. Despite the success of one hundred years of sovereignty and republic, the nation has often gone through difficult times. I remember the many who were killed in securing exports during the war years, but it is estimated that 211 people, or 0.17% of the population, died of the war, reached the same ratio as for the United States. The unity of the Cold War and the hard time for a decade ago, when financial crisis began, was still under way for the Icelanders. So it is important to remember that the success of the nation depends on its outside circumstances and its ability to understand the changes in the environment, to respond to the call of time, and to respond properly. After the fall of the Soviet Union, so to speak, the safety of northern and northern Europe was relatively out of the question, even when the U.S. government decided to move their defenses away from Iceland. However, there is now an uncertainty period in European security issues that need to be addressed specifically. The chemical weapon attack in the English town of Salisbury at the beginning of March is a serious violation of international law and a threat to safety and peace in Europe. Chemical weapons have not been used in the continent since the end of World War II. To date, the response of the Russian government to the attack has been irrefutable, and its declarations have proved unfaithful. The attack has called into harmony with Western activities. The North countries, many member countries of the Atlantic Community and various EU Member States decided to take action against the Russian government. The Icelandic government decided, in agreement with the State Department of State, to participate in this operation and has all two-sided meetings with Russian officials and high officials being suspended for an indefinite period of time. As a result of the decision, in the coming summer, Icelandic rulers will not attend the Russian World Cup soccer tournament. A respectable president. Once again, we will ensure our safety through active participation in the defense activities of Western nations, the Atlantic Alliance, and the defense agreements against the United States. Good defenses and intensive surveillance of the North Atlantic are a major element of that topic. Safety in Europe also calls for active participation in European countries, including Iceland, in diverse regional partnerships, where representatives of nations that are at odds with politics, community structure, and values are likely to meet. In such a case, the Icelanders can do their part, sometimes taking the lead, to improve their relations and cooperation with nations and to speak the speech of democracies, rights, and commercial freedoms. Last year, Iceland's leadership in the Baltic Council ended where the first Ministerial Conference in the Council was successful after Russian military power was exercised in Ukraine. A respectable president. I have regularly given a talk, and publications have helped me to see that the world's commercial patterns are changing and that the Icelanders have to change their work accordingly. Today, the lines of business that were simple and wide for decades are inexplicable and subject to laws other than those of earlier times in speed, communication, and technology. To win a new export market in distant continents and to increase export income, all the equipment we have, especially the foreign services, must be used. Iceland's Foreign Service is a living tool to ensure the widespread interests of Iceland abroad. Economics and priorities change the nature of the situation, and the foreign service needs to take into account, as well as honor the methodology that the nations have agreed to use in international relations and reflect in the Vienna Convention on political relations. My first report as Minister of Foreign Affairs to the Council, less than a year ago, was given much of the objective of foreign affairs. Enrolled by the government budget and endeavored to demonstrate clear goals, standards, and measures in a clear way. The report that I present at the General Assembly today goes further in this regard, and I enjoy that by the autumn, a report called Foreign Service will be completed. Economic security in the changing world has been officially introduced. The report on foreign services was the result of extensive work in the Ministry and consultations with a number of stakeholders in the community. It presents a 151 proposal for action to strengthen the work of the foreign service. My report on foreign affairs that I present today gives more attention to the planning and activities of foreign service than has been established so far. This is in view of giving the General Assembly and the public better insight into assignments and jobs of foreign service, which have often been difficult to deal with because of the confidentiality and delicate status of the cases being handled. So I would like to spend some of my time here today explaining how the changes in foreign service are meant to strengthen the political policy. It is safe to say that there is now the most extensive change in foreign service for a long time. Prior to the end of June the following, it is assumed that more than 70% of the procedure in the above - mentioned report will be implemented. Two new offices are now at the Ministry, i.e. a new Ministry Department office, and the restoration has been a special defense office. New departments have gone into operation, including the home ambassador's department and the administrative department, as well as the information department has been given a new role in managing the analysis of various issues, such as the European Economic Safety Unit. In the development - working office, new departments for employment and regional cooperation have taken part in the work and the branch of international development teaming will lead to the vast cooperation of the Northern Community and the Baltic States of the International Bank when Iceland operates prehumanity in cooperation to two years (2019◯2021). In addition, the New Calculator Department has been established and the work of the Icelandic Peace Guard has been promoted by moving it to the Defense Office. I am certain that a new organization will be needed to strengthen the Ministry's work. The Foreign Service needs to go hand in hand with employment into the new market area and provide it with assistance, especially in countries where a public body is needed to pay for a business ticket. To open doors to new markets, a work post is needed on distant continents. Iceland's embassies have long had large districts, and it is often difficult to care for districts other than the accommodations. To meet this problem, they've established a new home emissary. An answer to many countries has been taken to Iceland and committed to experienced emissaries who will be in charge of these countries from Iceland. There has been a new life in the arrangement where ambassadors at home have also been organized into groups of languages or themes, thus forming a stronger link with Icelandic employment and further trades, innovations, and ideals. Five ambassadors are now doing business in the department and are carrying out many kingdoms, but they also have important issues, such as geologic and equality. In some 90 different countries, a new legal department oversees some 230 voters. Residents are important to the provision of foreign service for business services and civil services. There is also a reevaluation of the potential number of jurists and their location in individual parts of the world, especially in new market countries. The service of Icelandic citizens abroad is one of the main projects of foreign service. Each month some 700 civilian services reach the Ministry Directorates' office and about 2,200 arrive at the office of emissary. In general, it can be estimated that more than 30,000 things of various means are being passed each year. The Ministry of State has 24 - hour shifts throughout the year for the urgent assistance of Icelandic citizens, wherever they are. There are now 25 emissaries active in 21 countries, i.e. 17 two - sided embassies, four fixed committees in international institutions and four main legal offices. Last year, in Mozambique, the only embassy was shut down, and now this spring, a embassy in Vienna against Austria will fail, but in Vienna it will continue to operate as a regular committee to the European Security and Cooperation Agency. Iceland's emissary agencies are now fired at least possibly. For example, 11 of them, or almost half of them, have only one appointed employee, i.e. Director, from Iceland. Others are local. This is reflected in the mail offices in the report that I now present, which are presented with a new reference to having information about each office. The statistical data collected during the early part of 2017 are published on the relative change of projects, trade, staff and costs, as well as on the state of the post as it is today. Substitutions to the office and main office of foreign services (without translation centres and Iceland offices) except for about 5 billion dollars, 0.61% of total government expenses. For example, in 2007 and 2012, these contributions are less than the proportion of the past few years, but they were 0.7% in 2007 and 2012. The budget for the emissary and the main office have also decreased as a percentage of foreign donations since 2012, with a 40% share, now more than 32%. In terms of total contributions to foreign services, unless they own 2018 subsidies, less than 14,961 million. At least 1.8% of the total cost of the state. It runs about half, or 6,971 million dollars, for development cooperation and international institutions. A respectable president. A special defense office has been rebuilt in the Ministry of State in accordance with the proposal there to submit to the state service report for the future. It reflects the emphasis on defense and security and the determination that we Icelanders are active participants in the security activities of Western nations. A powerful defense office will be equipped to cope with the changes and uncertainty that now exist in our world's security sector. It is responsible for national security and national security policies that reach both active foreign policy, protective policy and public safety. Icelanders must themselves be involved in measures to ensure safety of the country. In recent years, additional safety and protection contributions at home and in the field of NATO have been increased in line with the commitment of Community legislation and to the level of burden. It has been developed to renew and improve the protection infrastructure in Iceland, support hostilities in air space management, contribute funds to the Community support and campaign fund, and increase the active participation of civil experts in Community projects. Initiating protective workers in the area of safety at Keflavour Airport and the operation of the radar system, which covers a vast region of the North Atlantic, is an important factor in Iceland's contribution to the joint defenses of the Community. A substantial support has been obtained from the NATO stock and has been authorized from the fund for the renewal of radar stations at a value of 22.4 million euro. Iceland's share is about 3 million euro. For some time now, Icelanders have been active participants in Community defence exercises and thus have been well trained. The Dynamic Mongoose submarine search program was conducted in Iceland's jurisdiction in June 2017 and is now being prepared to participate in the defense practice Trident Junography in the fall of 2018. In addition to this, Iceland is engaged in the Northern Challenge practice every year, her goal is to practice bombing and response to terrorism. NATO, an air - space guard in this country, is unmistakably low and is a factor in looking out for the lower borders of the Community. There have been increasing consultations with various treaties and cooperations in national security and defenses over the years. Takes Iceland, including. joined in the civil part of the Norwegian Defense Team. Toward the end of 2017, Iceland became a member of the Norwegian agreement, which facilitated the arrival and departure of unarmed war planes due to a joint exercise or action. For recent years, emphasis has been placed on active involvement in disarmament issues. Iceland and Ireland are pre-eminents in the missile monitoring system of 2017-2018, but the cooperation is about limiting the spread of missile technology for the arms delivery system, including mass destruction of weapons. In the fall of the year, Iceland is the host for the Atlantic Community's group on disarmament and mass destruction weapons. The work of civil experts by the Icelandic Peace Guard is now well-founded within the frame of NATO. Experts have worked in Afghanistan, Georgia, and Estonia. In addition, an assessment of a training project for bomb - disposal experts in Iraq has been performed, and representatives of the Land Security Bomb Squad are being aimed at doing more. In 2017, there were six members of the Icelandic Peace Guard who joined the ÖSE campaign in Armenia, Albania, and Georgia. A respectable president. I'd like to take particular action in the affairs of the North, which are more and more important to us Icelanders. There is still an opportunity to get things right in the north, so it will become a sustainable development in the spirit of the United Nations, not out of control, but of the United Nations. Rapid changes in the environment of the north may have a major impact on the environment and on the lives and survival of people around the world. Thus, the North Sea, especially member states of the Arctic Council, has been entrusted with a heavy responsibility for which they have to render an account for future generations. The Arctic Council has established itself as the most important area of consultation on the issues of the north. Iceland is leading the Council of 2019◯2021. It is important that this lead and Iceland succeed in showing leadership, professionalism and forethought. Industry gives the Icelanders an opportunity to focus on sustainable development, sustainable communities and work against the negative impacts of climate change in the north to have a sound base among the states and members of the council. In this context, the sea, energy, and indigenous positions need to be directed toward the sea. Easy sailing through the North Sea has aroused the interest of great shipping nations, and there is expectations of easier access to night resources. In the treaty of the government, there are some. Emphasize Iceland's speciality as a Arctic state, with a large proportion of economic laws in the north. Therein lies the possibility of increasing sailing and other activities but also of challenges to the environment, life, and life - style. This will highlight a neighboring relationship with Faeroe Islands and Greenland and Westnoric cooperation. The Ministry of State is now taking shape for Iceland's prehumanity in the 2019 and North Pole activities. It's going to even be there. Provide scientific cooperation in the Arctic and work force on environmental protection and on the issues of the oceans located in Akureyri, as well as for strengthening work on the search and saving of the region and on the progress of non-inferiority issues. A key element in Iceland's foreign policy is to ensure the sustainable use of the living resources of the ocean in the spirit of the United Nations Sea rights Convention and related agreements. This also applies to the marine region in the North Sea. By the end of 2017, a landmark meeting of ten countries on the heads of fish in the North Ocean outside the jurisdiction of countries reached, but discussions had taken place since December 2015 and the formal signing of the binding contract in the mid- 2018. This is a great stage of joy and joy. The Treaty on Fishing in the North Sea extends to the oceans and implies, in short, that its members will commit themselves not to vote for fish in the Convention until scientific research has laid the groundwork for sustainable fishing. With Iceland's involvement to the contract, in the future Iceland will be assured to make decision-making and research teamwork in this critical ocean area. For a long time, the work of the European Economic Area has been very extensive in the work of foreign service. In addition, major efforts have been required to ensure Iceland's interest in eviction from the European Union and thereby from the EEA community. In recent years, it is obvious that the European Commission and legislators have faced a significant problem with the implementation of the EEA Convention. Retake and induction of the EEA species have been reduced from time to time to influence these types at the formative level. The management list for EU interest management has been revised for 2018 and is defined as Iceland's most important issues of interest within EU legislation. The Ministry of State is working on the analysis of Iceland's views on the shape of legislation within the EU and monitoring on issues related to Icelandic interests. The key to effective interest in developing legislation within the European Economic Area is to introduce Iceland's views early in the process. A great deal of effort is needed in these areas. In this regard it is necessary to make use of the opportunities available to Iceland under the EEA Convention to influence the shape of new EEA regulations. It is available to include in specialist groups that the European Commission shall agree on the shape of legislation. I'd like to apply myself for increasing information flows to the General and Management Board and stakeholders on the European legislation in the water. The new EEA database provides an opportunity for more consultation than about 250 management experts now have access to the database and can use it to perform joint analysisal work on policy-making documents in the EU building legislation within the base. Also, the basis provides an overall view of EEA's activities ranging from the formative level to the uptake of the EEA Convention, production of Icelandic legislation and possible treatments associated with the EFTA and EFTA centres. The aim is to provide information from the database available to the Generals, stakeholders and the public to increase their access to the EEA. A respectable president. The world is changing fast, much faster than most know. We live at a time when the Chinese intermediate class has become more numerous than the people of the United States and Canada combined, new shipping routes may open sooner than ever before, which will change globally and no longer have geographic boundaries. There's a lot of opportunities, but they're not self-important, they're going to be competitive. Whether we Icelanders succeed in that contest depends on us. I give high priority to the State Department of Business Services and to assist with a market search, either on standard markets or on new markets. The plan is to strengthen the embassies in Asia with more business representatives, as well as new legislatators in major cities. Iceland's embassies have local knowledge and network and provide diverse services for companies. In particular, emphasis is on promoting the services of a new creation company in the high - tech industry and creative branches. The possibility of opening business offices in East Asia and the California high-tech region is under way on the west coast of the United States. I would like to conclude with our contribution to development by the Icelanders. Less than half of the funding for foreign service goes to development cooperation and international organisations, less than 7 billion. Public contributions are not the only way to finance development cooperation, to activate employment life for better development jobs, in line with international appeals, and to promote investments and commerce. This is the message from an international conference on funding development in Addis Ababa in 2015 and for Iceland in consultation with the recent OECD peer review committee. They are now working on making Icelandic experts and specialized companies, e.g. in the soils and seas, better able to use their knowledge for the poor of the nations, especially through the World Bank and Food and Agriculture Organization. [[The president calls.]] Much is expected of the new branch of regional and professional cohesion within the Department of State Department of State.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u46	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the presentation of this fine report. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister only into defense, in particular security. This may be because I'm missing out on the report or haven't done enough research, but I can't find anything about the information security concerns of Iceland's report. I suppose this is because there is something else involved, such as NORDEFCO or something not specifically mentioned in the report. I specifically mention this because now the world is changing faster than we many people know and faster than any of us might want. As the technology changes, let's just say, let's say, let's do it. During the last term, I was mainly concerned with information, but based on the idea of a time for peace. Even in times of peace, nations are spying on one another and plotting how they can, if it goes badly, and if there is a great deal of controversy, oppose the information security of other countries. Iceland is very weak on its own, just because it's small. It is absolutely necessary in my opinion that we focus our attention on international cooperation, especially on the North countries, when it comes to national information security. I know there's something going on. I don't mean it so there's nothing going on, I've got it all figured out that there's something going on. But I'd love to know if it's the highest. A minister can ease my nerves on this subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u47	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry, and I can assure you what. A senator that when it comes to Internet security, the only thing that has been defined as one of our greatest threats to us and the importance of meeting it is specifically mentioned in national security policy. Hv. A senator points to the importance of working with the North countries, where we wholeheartedly agree. Generally speaking, and it's not just this, the interest of all the northern countries has increased in working together when it comes to security and defenses and we celebrate and give it a very special focus, as I did slightly in my speech. However, it comes naturally to more consultations than the Ministry of State, and I specifically refer to the Ministry of Justice and the Department of Transport. There were recently very pleasant results, but also some concerns, when an international agency granted us recognition because of how well we are connected in Iceland and the spread is great, but at the same time when the security issues came, we were not in the place we wanted to be. That's where we want to fix it. So it's two kinds, one on the other, it's consistent with the efforts of all the parties involved in these matters, and then it's foreign cooperation, and I can't go into the details of anything other than the other. A senator stresses the matter. They're doing and doing. A senator specifically referred to cooperation with the North countries, and there is something we are focusing on, and there is a solidarity between the northern countries.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u48	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A minister for the answer, and it certainly feels nervous only because it is something that tends to, perhaps not to be forgotten, but over the years it has not been as much of a defensive policy that, of course, changes very quickly now when, in particular, Western relations with Russia seem to fail, and it is sad, but it is as it is. So I'm very happy to hear it. Ministers say that this is our greatest safety threat because I think so, this is the threat we are, in fact, vulnerable to, because we are geographically surrounded by allies, very strong allies. On the other hand, we are on the Internet just bumped up with most other countries in the world. In this, the difference is not customary between Icelanders and Icelanders. We are not used to thinking that we are neighbors of some states who want to harm us, just a very unusual one. So it takes only a new thought, and it's been needed, but it sounds like the best answer to me. Ministers that it is, and I especially rejoice that it is noticed, and even though we are commended for being well connected, it is just a tiny two - edged sword because it really means that we have built up our infrastructure especially in regard to our well connectedness, and when infrastructure uses new technology, they become extremely dependent on that technology. So that also includes a special threat if there is no Plan B. I have no further questions for the highest level. A minister unless he chooses to come back here and add something, but thank him for the answer and believe that this is the right course.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u49	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for bringing this up. We need to be very alert in this regard. A social security policy for Iceland was adopted in 2015. At that time, an Internet security Council was set up that is led by the Department of Transport. And to add to what I talked about back then, there are international agencies that deal with Internet security, i.e. The Atlantic Alliance, the SE, and the United Nations There has been an agreement to cooperate with the Network Security Department in the Atlantic Community, which has led to further information exchange and, at the same time, increased security for us. That agreement has been updated. I agree with that already. A senator reviews these matters, but you forget one thing, that we also have a lot to say that the cables that connect us to the outside world will never be broken. That's one of the threats we face. I don't know if we're vulnerable, but there's one thing we need to be very alert about. I know why. A senator knows these matters well, and I thank you very much. A senator for bringing this up. This is something we stress, but we need to be very alert, and it's good to have the senator in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u50	Mr. President. I'm gonna start by thanking the highest. Secretary of state for an excellent review and, in fact, commend him and the Ministry for a beautiful report. It is well set up and is graphic, making it easier for her to read. We agree on some things and other things. There are certainly very beautiful goals in this report, which I surely share, although I do not always feel that I see the mark in a recent financial program how governments intend to follow them. Of course, a foreign minister's work is an exciting and challenging assignment, especially now that modern technology and business practices have made the world so much less difficult. There are three major challenges facing mankind: climate problems, poverty, and war. I intend to spend most of my time discussing them in the talk. First only on climate challenges: In climate matters, we are to go ahead with a good example, fulfilling our climate commitments and the ambition of ambitious legislation and a realistic application of international cooperation. An example of such panEuropean cooperation is actually the induction of the third energy package, which is now awaiting the induction of the council and may be present in some members of the council. It is a panEuropean project designed to support the EU's sensible, environmental and sustainable energy efficiency. Poor is a challenge number two: It is both the cause and the result of the third threat, war, and it is unlikely that we will experience world peace until it has been eliminated. There is great concern that inequities are increasing in the world. Today, the richest percent is as much as the other 99%, and inequities are growing more and more. The same is actually happening in Iceland. There's something here, for example. 5% of Icelanders as much property as the other 95%. So it would be a good contribution on the part of Iceland to achieve the world aims to fight the inequities at home. Unfortunately, I don't think much of it in a new financial program, which directly contributes to the continued evil development of organizations such as ASI, VR, and particularly the Environmental Association. Much of our international commitments to combat poverty are developing teamwork. That's where I feel that the government has no record. True, the centenarian is growing in cooperation with the increase in national income, but the increase in pressure is far from the end of which we would be satisfied. It is set out to be 0.355% at the end of a five-year financial program and is far from reaching the UN target that places the most important obligations on the rich and the most blessed countries in the world, which we are blessed to provide 0.7% of national income in development. The government has only ambition to achieve half of that goal, and that seems to me below all the caves. Now, in good years, we spend the same percentages in development support and in the midst of a recession, and we intend to do little better for the next few years. I remind you that there is a 2013 Parliamentary arrangement that was agreed on with all agreed votes, except for one, on a huge increase in proposals to the jury. There, people were going to get the laws to 0.4% in 2019, but the government is going much shorter. In fact, VG, who has spoken extensively about this matter, is disappointed to learn that in the government covenant as easily as it really is. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if he does not feel uncomfortable as a representative of a rich nation to justify these low donations to his colleagues abroad. Finally, there is war. Probably not many of its consequences. While the Icelanders will not play a decisive role in combating him, however, we have a great responsibility and can exert ourselves in a decisive way, especially through humanitarian and humanitarian efforts and the emphasis on peace and equality, as shown in the report. It also says that with prolonged wars, violence, and persecution, as well as many negative effects of natural disasters on global climate change, there is a great increase in the need for humanitarian support and organized response. Here we can have, the highest. Minister, to shoulder much more responsibility. Especially with those in a delicate position who seek international protection, especially children. In fact, I have found a muffler to be close to a scandal's edge. Since the fall of the year, the Minister of Justice has completely ignored the will of the Council of Congress and had to press on to this group with a new Regulation. Mr. President. The first two challenges, the climate threat, and the poverty are difficult to deal with, but neither of us will be able to overcome if the third battle is not successful. In fact, this does not make it easier for us to think that countless forces, political leaders, and even the common people in this part of the world will benefit from drawing a black and white picture of the world. There are also loud voices in Iceland that promote prejudice, promote nationalism, want to submerge the country, to keep it out of the world, to foster suspicion, to fear, to distribute false stories, and to flaunt similar extreme movements in this part of the world. Of course, we can choose a world like this based on order and separation, a powerful border where each one is next to himself, or more communication, where people are trying to take responsibility for another. The first option will only lead to more tension and conflict, but the second one appears at least Hope for a better world. So it is out of my opinion, if it is to be done well, other than to be a progressive, open foreign politics with great cooperation and dealings with other nations. I'm the highest. Ministers continue to do that. We can do so in defense and security and by promoting the free world trade, as I spoke of earlier, by shouldering our part of the common responsibility we all have toward one another. We also know that mankind is faced with a tremendous digital technology revolution that will change society completely and within a few decades will be involved in society in a very different way than we have known before. It has great opportunities. We can increase production, possibilities can create much environmental production, which is an essential antidote to the climate threat. Most important, it could be used to balance the position of the poorer and richer parts of the world. Thus, the technological revolution is a powerful tool for achieving world goals. The changes, however, also pose threats if we do not keep our pockets in good shape, especially if our wealth and authority are moving to even fewer hands, and all the money from the technological revolution will be left for the wealth and economy. Mr. President. The report will certainly discuss the importance of holding well on to the EEA agreement and securing our best interests for the British by going out of the EU. Of course, this is also true of business dealings with all other nations. I have to say, of course, that I am disappointed and may not be surprised at what the three government groups agree to ignore the benefits of developing Iceland's affairs with the EU and to eliminate them by just one sentence. Membere in the EU may be access to a larger and more stable currency with a lower interest level than we are used to. This may include a major lifestyle application for homes, as well as a major improvement in the company's management environment, especially in innovations, which must play a much larger role in our future economy. It would also be a task, along with the growth of tourists, mainly linked with the construction of infrastructure, potential overexploitation, and a challenge to receive them kindly, rather than the overencouragement of the crown could easily cause conventional exports to be in trouble. Of course, it is proper to remember that through the EEA Convention, we take up more of all the EU regulations and directives, but we have very little to say about their nature and sometimes fail to adapt them to Icelandic interests. This is so true of us without enjoying the best that the EU could bring us, such as quality stability, lower growth, etc. So I keep on reviewing it, and interest in the euro is still considerably lower than they are here. They are a great deal of comfort to the homes of the country, especially for those who are unable to handle an apartment purchase because of their high interest and who are trapped in the poverty trap of rent - markets. There, too, rent is made out of too much interest. I believe that the recording of euro would also no doubt increase the stability of our main sector, as mentioned earlier, which is now facing increased problems in business due to the swing of the Icelandic crown and due to the noise at the moment. I'm sorry, but the public is usually the prop. He is the one who usually suffers for this instability. As a result, the EEA Convention has worked well for the EFTA countries involved in it and the EU. That's what I think men generally agree with. Of course, we know the problems that led to the EES Convention for a small nation. They included, as mentioned earlier, primarily that we had few men and are in a poor position to influence the laws here adopted on the basis of it. So I consider reasonable the emphasis that is presented in the report and subject to this, i.e. to use them many opportunities to influence the development of new EEA rules by getting into the process more quickly and consultation with other EFTA countries. I'll support the Minister on that. We in the United States have thought that it would be a general agreement to change the constitution to support this important agreement by agreeing with the Parliament a new international cooperation arrangement. So finally, before leaving the EU, we must not forget that within this discussion we would have automatically taken part in the best business agreements around the world, but with the present system, we are forced to distribute the requirements more than that. It's hard for a small country. Finally, there are countless arguments for involvement in the relationship and closer association with other countries, which are by no means trivial and too little to be discussed. There I would like to mention a common view of human rights, democracy, environment, peace, refugee problems, development aid, to name just a few. Although the EEA Convention is essential to our survival, we also need to be alert to new circumstances. Now it is Britain that is leaving the relationship. I support every job aimed at maintaining good relations with Britain and securing our interests there, but I believe it is right to do the most closely with the other non-EU countries. I encourage ministers to inform the council very carefully about their discussion. The report offers excellent goals, and again I encourage ministers to keep us informed of their status. Otherwise, there's a lot of good stuff in the report, for example. Many things about the situation and goals of Iceland in the international community, such as Ministers have established. Here we have noted fine goals when it comes to promoting our foreign affairs. Similarly, important targets are set up for security and protection, which I support, as well as for resources and environment. Then we need to be active participants at the scene of the Eastern Union and the Northern Union and continue to work well for the induction and molding of national security policies. Finally, a great deal of emphasis must be placed on combating global warming and the protection of the sea. That's where we're supposed to be on our way. We have taken a good example and have to take our own serious steps at home in order to reduce emissions and to follow them through international international treaties. It's almost over now. I'm going to close this up in a summary and say: We need to expand our donations for development, we need to receive more refugees, we need to strengthen our relationship with the British, but also with the European Union, no matter what the future relationship. Finally, we are to let the nation itself decide on political foreign affairs. It should decide in what way an Member State's discussion with the European Union should be conducted; it will not be completed with a Minister's declaration at any given time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u51	A respectable president. I just want to take this opportunity and thank you. A senator for an excellent and perfunctory speech. I'm not going to be able to bring everything into my head. A senator referred to this. However, as for the development community, I want to note that we are now expanding our donations between the years between 2018 and 2023, every year some 3,000 million. There's an increase of more than 50%, and I'm sure there's another group of paintings that increase that much. Happily, the number of the poor is dwindling in the world, and we see very large and powerful intermediate classes coming up, but it can be better if sufficient. We will continue to stress the importance of helping, especially humanitarian assistance and so forth, and we need to discuss it in particular because it is important that we make use of these much larger contributions. This needs to be done well, and we need to learn from our neighboring nations there. Hv. A senator said we were recording more of the EU types. Here's a report that has been distributed to all members of Congress called The Gang for Good. Hv. A senator correctly points out that the EU countries are our friends and allies, and we should, of course, draw closer to them, and we are to protect our interests in the EEA agreements, but we are mistakenly taking up more of our products. The report shows that this is 13.4% from 1994, 13.4% of its types. However, we need to do better than that. A senator referred to trying to influence in the past and to care for our interests in this regard. People don't share what they see. A senator at the euro in the European Union in the European Union is deeply concerned about the weaknesses there are, and there are reports of how humans deal with these factors every day. There is also a misunderstanding. A senator will talk about business policy if we compare Iceland's business policy with the European Union, and I'll take it better in the second course.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u52	Mr. President. Only to the development team. Of course, I'm not going to minimize the increase in figures, but we're all here knowing what percentages are about. It is the nature of a proportion of land production that requires that we be ready, for the centenarian is in a way that is different from what we are willing to do. I just point to a Senate resolution where there are higher goals and in the end must be the council to rule. Of course, it is difficult for the council to conclude and south, and then to do nothing with what the council says. Of course, there are different visions in the European Union, depending on the state. I just want it to be that when Iceland's financial policy and currency policy is determined, it will also be evaluated for the benefits and defects of different arrangements. No one has to try to convince me that this roller coaster ride of the Icelandic crown has played especially well with the public, let alone an import company, a novelty firm that may have become involved in the insuficiency of their entire profits, and they have to resign from staff. We'll get at least to agree that it is wise to make an assessment. There is no such thing as I'm on the money board that's now working, and I just hate it. We can deal with the evidence with and against it when everything is on the table. What should we really fear to examine? Sometimes it is very good to do so in order to strengthen one's own eyes, whether she is in or out of it, so I don't know what it is to be afraid of.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u53	A respectable president. I don't think it's too bad to talk about involvement in the European Union, and it's actually one of the most fun things I do, so that's all I'm saying. I still think it's wise that we review the information we have. We published a report a few months ago called Iceland's Foreign Business and a participation in the EFTA holiday business. Hv. A senator mentioned that if we entered the European Union, we would have access to better treaties, but there is no evidence to suggest that, based on the current situation. Secondly, because we are talking about the interests of the public and the business, compared with the customs environment of Iceland and the EU and the EFTA countries, we have far more tax freedom than the European Union. We have about the same number of toll numbers, but we have 90% who do not carry toll while the share is 26% in the European Union. It also shows that if we were to take up EU business policy, it would not simply mean that these customs would increase the products that are not toll at the time, but would have to be put up with 15◯20 new customs that cost about 3.8 billion and men would have to increase the customs or customs of several hundred. It would have a very negative effect on the company and the public if we were to take up this business policy. In fact, it was in these interviews - and all of this is taken up directly from the meeting plans and the information available there; it is not I who write this report; it is just taken directly from it - that men were trying to perform special counter-arguments to overcome the negative impact on the nation's commercial environment that would be involved in entering the European Union. In fact, they were especially looked at as counterweals because of their professional roads. It is very important that such information is available and that everyone is aware of it when we take this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u54	Mr. President. Yes, when we take this discussion. I now think that in both the Treaty and this report, this discussion is off the board. I don't have anything to say about it. There are three groups in the greater part that agree on this, but I believe, in view of the fact that all three groups have ever promised that the nation would eventually have to decide for continued discussion that it would have any difference. I would like to hear a minister's attitude about whether it was the most reasonable way to ask the people, and then it would just be pushed off the table once and for all, or we would continue. And I'd also like to mention other things that actually relate to the European Union, other than only the trade, which are our common outlook on life, which are humanitarian, evolutionary, and our role in working for peace in the world, where I really don't think it's impossible to try a different way than much international cooperation. I'd like to hear what the Minister's ideas are about because in a world where everything is changing, we can just do a pretty bad job if we don't have good relations with these countries. Of course, I know that a minister has said nothing but that such things should be done, but I think it would be better to try whether it can be done within the relationship than outside, and the question... [[I can't answer that. I can't get back.]] At the end, if the minister answers, "Why don't we just settle this for a national hearing?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u55	Mr. President. I thank the Minister for this fine report. As we have seen, the report is a pleasant subject, there are many things in it, fine pictures, and such, good information. Mr. President. I would like to start by saying that it is a bit difficult to handle such a big matter as the foreign affairs are under discussion today when we all have been deeply involved in the financial agenda, having little time to go through this - but this is some publication that is being discussed - and for other reasons too. So I think we need to learn from this and give this report, this discussion, another place, and a better time. We're here to learn from this. The report is, of course, excellent. There are many things in it that you can agree with, and things you are wondering about. But you haven't had enough time to go through this. I'm sure this will require that we at the Foreign Affairs Committee want to discuss certain things more and more closely and possibly be asked for a discussion, etc. It's just normal, like it's going down here at the council. I agree with the highest. A minister that it is important to examine the foreign affairs as a whole, to examine our goals, where we are going to go, and to do so. Such a fine report was made, many of it came in, and many things, of course, we will see. But there's one thing I'm going to say at the beginning that I miss, i.e. I felt that I wanted to see more ambition in strengthening the ministry myself. Foreign affairs receive very little of the government's expenses at any given time. In fact, after both being a senator since 2009 and being a minister of foreign affairs, I feel very special that we are putting so little money on the interest market abroad. In particular, considering that Iceland has a lot and, in fact, all the funds for good relations abroad, are making markets. We're an export nation, we've got a exported economy, which means we've got to get to the bottom of our feet and have strong relationships abroad. Happily, we have had a very strong career. As a result, we have done quite well in our job life. But I think we can do better. Our small service is a wonderful service. It's excellent people working day and night to look after the interests of Iceland and Icelandic companies all over the world. One thing I'd like to mention before going to the report myself is that yesterday it was shown in a financial discussion that certain money is expected to be taken on the basis of our proposal for administration in UNESCO. Now it may be mentioned in the report, I will read it. But I wondered, " Why UNESCO? ' I may feel that I need to tell us why we're stressing it. I wondered, " Could I put money in and put emphasis on connected with the greater agreement on defense against desertification? ' It's an enormously important matter, environment and climate. There the Icelanders have much to offer. At the United Nations Geological Institutes, which is here with us, people have achieved tremendous success. It's noticed what we've done and what we've done. Let's not forget that not so many years ago, not so many years ago, Iceland was actually the largest desert in Europe. We've achieved tremendous success there. I might have wanted to see that we put emphasis on it. But I'm sure there's a good reason for UNESCO, but I'm not going to belittle it. It is very tempting to enter the European Union discussion. I'm still gonna say no. I still think Minister and I are completely in agreement with all that nonsense. That's it. I've done it. As for the report, I'm just gonna run, we're gonna run out of time, we're gonna run through a few things. Right on page 8. 7 correctly referred to this terrible attack in Britain by means of chemical weapons. That is correct, all the foreign business committees were behind them, supporting the journey that had taken place there. It is important, however, that there were reasonable questions at a meeting of the State Department on the subject, on evidence and the like. I have no doubt that there will be certain holes in it. The last thing we saw was that this poison was confirmed by the chemical weapons agency or where it came from, so we must have been on the right track there. On page 18. 8 Talks about future foreign service and goes through that report and the changes. It is noted lower that in the development team office, new jobs departments have taken up work, job life, and regional cooperation. It would be most tempting at some point in the future to learn a little more about this, what this new department has to do exactly, how it is thought of for the future, etc., a department for employment and regional cooperation. On the same page, we will discuss that the work of the Icelandic Peace Guard will be promoted by moving it into a defense agency. I think it's a good thing. I'm tempted to ask myself, " How does my colleagues feel about it? ' On page 18. Nine talk of the home ambassadors. There's good evidence to that effect. I've only missed it, and I've wondered about it in the past. Each cost of this adjustment, to bring this work home, may be observed by a minister. I don't think it's an option, but it may be, I'm not going to deny it. The same page refers to an office that is closing. I'm sorry to see that Vienna is closing, but since this is probably the best option. At the same time, however, we are led in one of the ASE headquarters, ODIHR, so this may only happen. But I know we've got some very powerful staff over there, and especially a very powerful top man. I'm not worried about it myself. The development of donations for foreign service has been considered well here, i.e. An office and a main office. I meant that we would soon begin to add in, but maybe it will come later. Defense and security: I'm not going to wear it this time, I think. I think it's good to be careful, and it seems to me to be a minister with a very good plan for all of it. On page 18. Eleven talk about the EEA. It says in the middle of the page, just after the EEA starts, with the President's permission: The key to effective interest protection in developing legislation within the European Economic Area is to introduce Iceland's views early in the process. A great deal of effort is needed in these areas. I think we can all agree on this. What I wonder, because now you've talked about this and you've tried for a while, is if anything new is on the table. How will we do this, and what will it cost? I've always felt that it would really be best to improve the quality out there in order to be able to monitor more closely, take part in more preparation and the like, but it would, of course, result in an increase in cost. So I wondered how we're going to do this. [[Up front.]] There are some things that will come out of me in this speech, I'm not necessarily asking the minister to answer everything right after the talk or answer, not at all, but we'll probably take this discussion on both the committee and later. On page 18. 12 We are discussing the development issues. It speaks of employment and participation in the development and appeals of the international community, of promoting investments and commerce, and of the message received from the conference in Addis Ababa 2015. I'll totally agree with it. It is important to try to achieve more, we can actually improve and improve developing cooperation with the job. It is important, however, that we do so in an honest and transparent way. I have at times found that some countries are at a high level of evolutionary cooperation, but at the same time, they may be making contracts to drill for oil, something like that. You wonder about the environment and other things. But I trust the Minister to implement this. It's a question of how one group feels about this, I don't know. I mentioned the desert contract just as an example that there is a number of applications for Icelandic skills and knowledge. I'm gonna run over this big chapter of this. We come to Baltrexit, which, of course, is one of the biggest issues on the program today. Bbifit is a process of learning to many people in many ways; it is a learning process for those who have ever considered entering the European Union. There is a learning process for a state in the European Union, what happens if they change their mind. This should be a learning process for the European Union. So I've been amazed at the reaction that came from the European Union back then, i.e. To make this as difficult as possible to the British. I think that this reaction and how the European Union or government approach a problem is, in fact, unprecedented. Instead of working with the British and trying to do this in the best way to show that the European Union is democratic, respecting democracy, all are done to make this difficult for them. What kind of message is there to countries that want to walk in there, or countries that are in the European Union? It's a tough message. A message of violence, a message of harassment, and some kind of panic, I think, to the possibility that the relationship may be disintegrated. Actually, I don't think that's gonna happen. The European Union is not affected, but there is a need to change from within. They need to make a self - examination, and that need to be changed. On page 18. 68, by permission of the President's Organization of Baltrexit Work: In view of the progress of discussions between Britain and the EU, Iceland's goals need to be reassessed constantly. This section discusses diagnostic work, working groups, and says, by permission of the president: Then, the workgroups have continued their diagnostic work, aiming to achieve key objectives and priorities in terms of the development of the future trade of Iceland and Britain. It's all fine and cool. But I'm wondering if we need to reevaluate our goals. Maybe there's something I'd like an explanation for. But don't we need to reevaluate our approach, how we approach our goals, how we reach the finish line? Whether it's going to be at the scene of a two-way discussion, whether it's in the EFTA states, or where -- I'm only afraid of thinking that man is reevaluating the goals we're going to meet with the British expected. Will we decide that there are goals we will avoid or that? Don't we just have goals and then we'll get them or we won't get them? We are not going to be stirring up our goals. That's what I would have thought. I'm also going to let myself warn you - because I remember it from the top report. Minister from last year, I'll take care of it then - fear of the European Union in these Iceland's talks against the British. That sentence isn't in here right now. I'm very pleased with that. I think we should be careful to do this on our own terms, but of course, with the thought that we're having a good relationship with as many people as possible. But we do not let others control our conflict of interest. I know a minister would probably agree with me on that. Of course, developing cooperation is a major factor in the activities of the foreign service. Much good work is being done there. Certain changes have been made in recent years during the development process, which I think was a great improvement. We need to keep working on this group of subjects. As we have been doing, we still need to shoulder responsibilities. It seems to me, though, that the increase in budgets that may include. is presented in a financial program - I only brought in yesterday - is primarily because of commitment. But all of this, of course, will become clear. However, I would like to thank the Minister for this report. I'm sure there's something there that's been missing this morning that I've had to go through this perfectly. No doubt there will be speculation when you go through this better, whatever you want to do, what you want to do. It is very important that Iceland and the Minister and the Ministry continue to fight for Iceland's interests which are of utmost importance when it comes to dealing with foreign countries, whether it's economic interests, security interests, environmental interests, everything has to do with it now. But we should, of course, do all of this on our own terms. It's just that way. Covenants and contracts that are broken - we must always object. Surely we must focus on the fact that a small state of freedom can remain that way without any threat or fear of success in their rights. I think we can all agree on that. On the other hand, we can discern certain measures or ways to do all of this, but our goals must always be the same. Perhaps the vision shows how we get there in different ways.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u56	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. He did a lot of things, but, fortunately, he was so friendly to say that I didn't have to answer everything that came along, which is difficult in this brief period of time. I'm still gonna try to run into some. That is correct, no interest is expected in the future foreign service report. That's why there's even the transfers as easily as possible. A senator in particular referred to him. The natural idea is that we work better together, not just the foreign services, but more members, agencies that hear in foreign service, such as the Iceland Office, and with business interests especially when it comes to business. In fact, we are also promoting what we have received tips from international institutions, I reviewed it in my lead-in speech, that professional life also increases the development issues. This is in harmony with the guidelines we have received, and it is wise to do so. For UNESCO, this is the opportunity that came now because it is our turn as a northern nation to volunteer. It would also be a decision to skip that opportunity. This is, in fact, an extremely important institution that may include... has been linked to Vigdís Finnbogadóttir daughter, former president. How important it is to be encouraged in our cultural activities, since we have much to offer! The local ambassadors. There are two ways in which we can think of the embassy, which we know most of us are very small. It's very painful if they have some big task that is very far away from them. It's power and power. I think we can work this thing by working this way from home, not just caring for certain nations, which are difficult for the embassies to care for, both out of distances and because they have little people, but also out of themes, such as equality and e.g., e. countries that are interested in working with us in the earth's environment I think that's a good idea. I'll come back later and add some good things. A senator asked about.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u57	A respectable president. I thank the Minister for the answers. What I'd like to add in these two minutes that you have in this first place is that it's absolutely accurate, I agree with a Minister by that, of course, that the government and in this case foreign services need to continue to work closely with the economy. There is an excellent connection between us when we need to be encouraged. I'm sure there's things we can do to make things right. We can work more together to see the future, map where we will be when we look in the long run, where the parish tools are, and where we might move to shore, etc. The world is always shrinking or at least doing so, so you don't know what it's like today when it comes to business, there's a number of colors in the air. The world was always shrinking. The countries were always approaching one another when it came to business. It was getting simpler to do everything. Of course, we need to be involved. Of course, we know and see how the emphasis is in countries that may not be much bigger than us, I'll just mention Denmark, when it comes to business and so forth, so I don't talk about Norwegians, where there are 100 commissions, if we have to sell salmon somewhere, a lot of business agencies and a good network and all that. We are, of course, smaller, I realize that, but I think the fact that we have, for example, the fact that we have one. In Moscow seven employees, in Beijing seven, in New York six and a half, in the United Nations and two others in the office and then 2.8 in Ottawa, all of this is an enormously exciting kingdom to do business with, I don't talk about Asia, show that we must at some point have to make up for something else. Thanks for the answer to UNESCO. I understand that, but we might have wondered if we'd liked to use these 50 to 60 million or whatever it is on something else. But it's just as it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u58	A respectable president. I will continue to try to give answers to what may be answered. A senator was wondering. He went over Vienna a little. We're naturally on the NTSB board and we'll take care of it, and because of it. A senator refers to ODIHR that we may never have been stronger in this field than we do now and have staff in Warsaw as well. I want to draw attention to the EEA. The senator's report has been sent to members of the House for the benefit of the EEA Convention to improve the implementation of the EU contract. It reviews the increase and the cost of this growing interest care. The increase is 243 million a year. Of these, 162 million are new money, or new expenses, of which 81 million are available to those who need to transfer their representatives to Brussels. This is an additional cost. I think about Bgreit, I think we're totally agreeing with each other. It's all about looking out for our interests when the British go out. But it's no secret, we try to have as good relations with the European Union as possible, but it doesn't mean any fear of them, but it's mostly complicated, and there are many people who are coming in, that's why we've had cooperation and cooperation, not only with the British, but also with the European Union, the EFTA and the other members we think are important to our consultations to achieve success in this field. Then there is the right thing to do. A senator brings up business services. Of course, we are smaller, but we can learn much from our neighboring countries. Hv. A senator specifically mentioned Dani and the Norwegians, and of course we should not try to invent the bike; we should learn from those who have done things well. We've done a lot of good in this. But I think we can do much better, and actually we have to. We need to increase our export value by 1 billion per week for the next 20 years, so we need to be successful.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u59	Mr. President. Thank you, Minister for this. It's good to hear that this will be presented in this report, I think I'll take it right away that she came in the mailbox either last night or this morning, so you're going to get involved in it. What I was talking about, the Bgrets, I stopped to reevaluate goals. I may well have misunderstood, but I would have thought that there were goals somewhere, that would be reevaluating goals. You reach your goals or have to change them at the end. It is very important that we keep our cards well in mind when it is time for Bbifit of course. It's these two or three ways that we're wondering about the Bgret conversation, whether or not we're on this two-sided, if we're with the EFTA countries, and I don't quite remember what the other was. It's important that we do things on our terms. I know that the minister and foreign service are looking at this with their eyes. We can't make them EFTA. No one has to tell me that the Norwegians or anyone else ever think of thinking about Iceland when they wonder how they get the best deal with the British. It's not like that. Everything we do in this, we do on our own terms, with the interests of our people and our nations in mind, and of course we need to ensure that interest. There's a lot of work to deal with the British, it's clear. They are all those people who live in Britain, who are studying there, working on companies and possessions. It's business, tourists, customs. This is a huge deal. We realize that. As a result, it is normal for a minister to be given, I'm not saying open money, but he needs as much money as he needs on that assignment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u60	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you for a very good business discussion today. The highest report. The minister of foreign affairs has offered a wide range of provisions. I decided to set up a specific chapter, i.e. to the Norwegian case, where I now represent the chairman of the Council of Iceland and find it appropriate and also a subject of Russia, as discussed in the chapter. These issues are very high on paper in a conversation at the National Council and the Baltic States. National cooperation is not often discussed in this hall. This may be a little strange, since Norwegian cooperation is and has long been one of the cornerstones of Icelandic foreign policy. Actually, we talked about a little bit, in our financial discussion, about more cooperation in the field of defense and security. Then we spoke specifically about Internet security, but during the last spring council of the Northern Country Council in Akureyri, there was an approved proposal for increased cooperation with the Internet. It's totally, like a whisk. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson came in here, a subject that becomes more and more urgent because even though we are an island, we're not really an island anymore, and we need to focus on these matters, how we protect our safety. We're small, and that's why our Norwegian cooperation is very important. But I'm just gonna go over what the Northern Council is and I'm going to do it with all the Norwegian partnerships. The Northern Council is a European Parliamentary site in official Norwegian cooperation, and many of the rights common in the Northern countries are rooted in the Northern Council. It was founded in 1952, with 87 members of the Council of Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway, Sweden, Iceland, and the Faeroe Islands, and Greenland. The General has been involved in the council since its establishment, and in the National Council of Iceland, there are seven members of the six Parliaments. The Northern Council gathers for a meeting once a year, reasoning on internoristic issues. Besides, the Northern Council holds committee meetings three times a year. The Council of the North is responsible for various international projects taken by members of Congress, committees, or members of the Council. For example, at the last Council, in Akureyri, the National Council of Iceland proposed to direct it to the Norwegian Minister to expand research on acidification and its effects on ecosystems and consequences. It's exactly what we're doing with our emphasis on the sea and the integrated interests of that important resource. The aim of the Council of the North is to increase cooperation between the Norwegian states by carrying progressive ideas and recommendations directed to the Council of Ministers or to the states of the North countries. The foundation of the Council of the North is Helsingfors Convention from 1962. The Norwegian Minister's Committee was founded in 1971 and is a cooperative site for the governments of the north. Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, now in charge of the Northern Community co-work minister for Iceland. On behalf of the Norwegian Ministers Committee, ten committees serve as a professional minister who regularly meets and discuss common matters. Formal agreements does not form a framework for cooperation between the Norwegian Foreign Ministers, as is the case with the professional cooperation of the Norwegian states, which complies with the regulations set out by the Helsinki Convention and takes place in the field of the Norwegian Minister. In this sense, the cooperation of the Foreign Ministers is informal. The Norwegian cooperation of the Development and Defense Ministers is also considered informal. Foreign Ministers are meeting very regularly, and Iceland's emissaries are in good contact with North American coal at home and from home at the United Nations as well as with other international institutions. In recent years, the North countries have been working to further promote their cooperation in the area of foreign and security, taking into account the proposals of Stoltenberg, former Secretary of Defense and Foreign Affairs, published in his report to the Ministers in 2009. In April 2011, the Foreign Ministers of the Northern Nations confirmed at their meeting in Helsinki, a formal Norwegian Declaration of the Spirit of Stoltenberg. In addition, the North countries serve their embassy in a common embassies in Berlin. The idea of doing the same in other countries has developed in the future, i.e. ... tohavethe shouldn'thaveasidelikemeet. That has given us a very good experience. But what's the significance of the Norwegian co-work for Iceland? Teamwork at the National Council is of great importance to Iceland. Of course, Iceland is a small country, so normic cooperation gives us a set foundation internationally. We are united in other northern countries in the main challenges and opinions of the international environment. That is how the North countries often speak in one voice, e.g. When it comes to security, climate, and equality. The northern nations also share a common view of fundamental values, such as the importance of human rights, democracy and justice, and peaceful solution to issues. In these areas, northern nations are a global guide and emphasis on sharing their knowledge to promote communities in other parts of the world. Icelandic companies are involved in significant trades and services with the other North countries, so the North countries are a very important market area in Iceland. Norse cooperation is of least economic importance to Iceland. According to Iceland's Habitat, the value of Icelandic exports went to Northern America in 2017, i.e. January to November 4, 40.2 billion nt, i.e. about 9% of total transport. Of these, the export to Norway was half, 5.3%. The value of import from the North was much higher than in 2017 during the same period, about 130 billion k., 21% of total import to Iceland. Of these, the import from Norway was 9.5%, Denmark 6.1% and Sweden 4.1%. V.E.G. President. Political footlocks, powerful foreign trades, and cooperation in culture, education, science, and evolution are the benefits of Norwegian cooperation, and the strength of which is an amazing number of people share in the cooperation each day. We are no doubt stronger together. The largest project ahead of us in the Norwegian partnership is Iceland's history in the Norwegian Minister, which begins next year. In the fall of the United States, the government will provide a management program for 2018 that will address the issues that Iceland wants to focus on and on the prehuman activities that will trigger. The management plan of Iceland 2019 will be presented by the Prime Minister and submitted at the Council of Northern Congress in Oslo at the end of October II. For example, in Iceland's premeditation projects, there will be a total of $15 million a year for three years, a total of over 750 million. K. for the current group. The economics and priorities of Iceland, the Northern and Western regions, to the vastly forgotten global objectives of the United Nations, form the basis for the prehumanity programme. It will also take into account previous pre-human programmes to ensure the integration of policies and tasks. This aims to achieve a synergistic effect through the management of Iceland in the Arctic Council, which will also begin next year, while plans are assuming that the issues of the ocean will be prominent in both of these prehumanities. In view of the rapid change in the north, the member countries of the Council are being guided by the 17 UN's global objective of sustainable development. In the U.S. Marshal's report. Secretary of State says even. on page 24. 28th with President's permission: ▪ It is an old story, and new that the strength of Norwegian cooperation involves common values in the northern world and similar social structure. Global confusion and uncertainty also seem to have redirected the Arctic waters. In a recent survey of the Norwegian Ministers and the Council of Northern America, it is made clear that cooperation is important. More than 90% of respondents feel that the cooperation is important or of utmost importance, of which 59% is of utmost importance. More than two thirds would like to increase normatic cooperation significantly, more than when asked last ten years ago. Two thirds of the development of international affairs have increased the importance of northern cooperation. The general public considers protection and safety issues to be the most fundamental area of cooperation that is a change from the past. V.E.G. President. This development, as stated earlier, has been a tangible warning to the Council of the Northern Council and also to meetings at the Council of the Baltic Sea, where I serve as the representative of the Council of the Council of the Council of Human Rights. At these meetings, we can clearly see how concerned representatives of the Baltic States are about the recent developments in Russia. In chapter 5 of a report of the highest degree. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is an excellent subject on international and foreign affairs and a special subsection for Russia. For example, it says that historically, the interaction between Iceland and Russia in general has been very good, and because of geographic conditions, the countries share in regional cooperation, including the Arctic Council and the Baltic Council. There is also a millennium - long tradition of great communication between Icelanders and Russian people in the field of business and culture. Business barriers to Ukraine have greatly affected trade with Russia, and the export of fish products is nearing its end, which was the most hairy, macroil, and herring. The report reports that a major priority for the embassy last year was to cope with this difficult situation. At the same time, the embassy has worked hard with Icelandic companies in the development and fish industry to achieve their foothold in the Russian market. Of course, that is good. Mr. President. New events have had a very negative impact on the relationship between Russia and the West. There I refer to the chemical weapon attack in the English town of Salisbury at the beginning of March, which is a serious violation of international law and a threat to safety and peace in Europe. According to the secretary's report, with the permission of a president: Since the end of World War II, the continent has not been used in the fairy. To date, the response of the Russian government to the attack has been irrefutable, and its declarations have proved unfaithful. The Northern countries, many of Iceland's cooperation countries in the Atlantic Community, and various EU Member States decided to take concerted measures against the Russian government. The government, in agreement with the State Department of State, decided to participate in this coordinated operation and has all two-sided meetings with Russian rulers and high officials for an indefinite period of time. As a result of the decision, in the coming summer, Icelandic rulers will not attend the Russian World Championship. As a result of a conflict in Ukraine and the involvement of the Crimea in 2014, special and intensive forced action by the Western government remains in force, as well as the benefits of the Russian government, which involves a much greater import ban on food. While this discussion of important factors that take account of national relations, the Icelandic government has continued to promote good relations with Russia, including the United States. in regional cooperation, such as in the Arctic Council. As we have seen earlier, the report contains a number of factors, and today I think the discussion has been very good. Some have mentioned additional financial items now proposed for development, and financial programs show that there will be continued. It was discussed here yesterday, in a discussion on financial plans, as well as some of them. Councilmen and the highest. Secretary of state is calling it this afternoon. Of course, the good news is that we are adding to the development team, where there is a very important work to be done and the main part of my talk was about nonhuman cooperation and rights. As I said, there are northern states in many areas, such as human rights, equality and climate and other areas, so, of course, we should use our knowledge for the good. Evolution is indeed built up in that spirit. We're supposed to do better there, and we're to take pride in that. This discussion must continue. In answer to the highest. Secretary of State yesterday at my question of an even further increase in contributions to development cooperation, i.e. whether he believes that reaching 0.7% of GDP, as suggested by the United Nations, is a reasonable goal. In answer to a minister's question, we may need to discuss these issues more often. I agree with members of Congress that they have said, not just about developing cooperation, but about foreign affairs. I think that's what we're talking about. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson mentioned that we have been having a long and challenging discussion on financial plans for a few days. Today is Friday, and we have a very good report from the highest level. Minister of state to discuss in three or four hours or so. I don't think it's a good thing to do, and I hope when we get our next report from the highest level. There will be more room for a minister to discuss it. We should even take more regular days from meeting days to discuss foreign matters, especially normic cooperation and development cooperation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u61	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator before the talk, which was both extensive and informative. Hv. A senator drew attention to something that I find very remarkable, because there is a lot of support behind normic cooperation in the North countries and a great interest in the North countries to further that. I think this is a very positive news. You especially want to expand your cooperation in defense and security. Hv. A senator referred to his experience by meeting with a representative from the Baltic States. They're close to us, they're our friends, not only in the North countries, but also in the Baltic. It's an experience to hear their experiences. Of course, regarding Russia and its trades, one of Russia's business goals is to further their own commercial means of living on us because of the fishing road and the agricultural industry. It has created a number of opportunities that have been used by technology companies here that sell in such activities, especially in the field of fishing. The talk about Russia may not be entirely consistent with the size of the trade between countries. Even when we were sitting on the market alone, because they imposed a ban one year later on us than on others, the deal was about 22 billion. The entire deal is now about 8 billion as long as the United States has only about 340 and the British 260, if I remember correctly, but I say these numbers without responsibility. If we were to raise contributions to development in one year to 0.7%, that would be an 11 billion increase per year. It tells itself that it would be a very large leap at once and I think it would be difficult to get it to that level. It's the best step. Then I agree. A senator, and there is one of the proposals for the future, that we need to discuss foreign affairs more frequently during the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u62	A respectable president. The answer may be few in itself, except at the highest level. Ministers agree on the importance of Norwegian cooperation. It is good to find interest in other North countries and the willingness to expand our cooperation. As I'm saying, we don't only share the baselines I mentioned earlier in my speech, but we have business interests and climate issues as well as the defense and security. The climate is very high today, and there is good reason for it. Although we have a special immunity in the ocean around us, all pollution - we have talked about plastic pollution, acidification, emissions, and such things - a major impact on the interests of many. We must gather together, and we need to expand our research work in these areas. Under there are such big interests. Evolution working together is exactly what it is. We want to do better, and it costs money. We will also need to discuss what we are ready to do. We've done a lot of work to manipulate and further make better use of the dollars that are going into development, e.g. by the change entered into value of 2016. I think it was of the good, and I think we should just move on there and have an ambition to do better.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u63	A respectable president. I agree with what. Senator, it was 2016 a good record to unite the Development Organization into the Ministry of State. There'd be plenty more to do in the Council of Government, to unite institutions in the Ministry. Hv. A senator again reviewed the importance of the Northern Union and mentioned, including the U.S. The business we should not underestimate. We are interested in learning from the North countries about the security and defences when developing. They've been doing this with a much more powerful development aid than we have, and they've done it much longer. I think it's important that we're not picking up the bike but learn how they've done it. The sea is obvious, the Arctic language that is a giant, and how important it is for us to work with them! I am very pleased with the work that I do. Congress officials have attended the world scene of the Northern Union. I think it's very important, of course, not only with regard to the northern community but with international cooperation in general. It's the best thing to do if you leave the EFTA and the EEA together, and it's, in my opinion, totally exemplary. I find it very difficult to disagree. A senator about anything and no questions came along, so I'm not going to add any further.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u64	A respectable president. The Arctic and its affairs are among the things covered in the highest report. Secretary of state. There are emphasis that we need to be careful to maintain. This brings us to the importance of our cooperation with the Norwegian nations, as well as the Russians and the Baltic States. It is so important to stay in good contact with the Russians because they share common interests and grow even more in the long run. I'd like to mention the Western partnership, which is part of the Norwegian partnership, but we've built it up lately, i.e. Our cooperation with the Icelanders with the Greenlandics, our friends with the Greenlands and the Faeroe Islands. - Right here is the chairman of the Western Council. No, not the chairman, former manager, that's right, so I suppose that's what. Bryndís The Western Council will follow in its speech. [[Ex-wife.]] It is cooperation that we need to continue to promote. It is an opportunity, and it enables us not only to learn from our friends but also to share knowledge and experience and do good things together.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u65	A respectable president. I'm not going to give this talk much. I wanted to mention one or two things. I'd like to start by saying something with a what. paritaprevir Gunnar Sveinsson Sólnson, who mentioned earlier that the timing of this discussion is uncomfortable. There is something to learn from. I'm not going to complain a lot about it, but the circumstances are often just that way, so maybe it's not the best time to get deeply involved in this report. According to this, it's not a case here or something like that. This is not something that is urgent. Rather, it is a matter that we need to discuss in order to bring up our viewpoints and to get a discussion, which, of course, is vital. In terms of developing cooperation, I intend to say that I think that we should be much more ambitious in reaching the goal of 0.7% of national income going to development. But I'm going to do it because others have already spoken enough about it. It's all out. People are often equally ambitious in this regard. It's just gonna have to. It also has to be noted that probably one of our biggest security problems, and the security issues are what I'm going to go into, climate. Likewise, there is the discussion that I hope will achieve in a more pointed way in the future. What I really want to talk about, and I think I have something to say to others. Councilmen have not already discussed or will accept the discussion as a security issue, especially information security, which concerns me very much, and I am very concerned about it. Now, I might sound like a broken record and point a lot in comparable and similar things, and I have mentioned in the last term when we had a foreign minister's report for discussion, for as much as the report itself is, there's another party in these matters that don't exactly turn to the highest level. The minister of foreign affairs or his job, though the brotherhood and the main responsibility of the work are public, business, and community institutions. Information security is not something we can simply place in the hands of an institution and then expect it to simply fit into that issue. This is because the information technology surrounds all of our infrastructure. Not only are there some outside barriers we have to defend there but there are no solid armies or armies, of course, abroad and from time to time in Iceland, which we can rely on and fight for. Information security is about our daily lives as individuals, companies, institutions. That is why I feel that there will be a greater awareness of public safety and future sources. Today is a very bad situation. Has been worse, she's probably better now than she's ever been, but she's a damned bad one anyway. People say that there is nothing to hide, that they are not doing anything so remarkable that they need to be especially careful. But that's a big misunderstanding. First of all, I guess people have things to hide. Second, control of computers and the use of weapons can be used not just to pry into people's private lives but to be misused. It is possible to abuse innocent information as we know it, e.g. how they are used in a campaign out west of the ocean. In itself, it was not sensitive information; it was completely innocent information; it was just how people liked and how people felt about it. Nothing people were trying to fit, and they didn't have reason to be right. However, such information can be abused. It requires awareness and increased awareness of the importance of information safety in a wide range of ways. It's a long way off the top. State Ministry or government. You see, once again, I repeat a talk I delivered in 2014 and then again in 2015, that the security has never been worse than that of now. Information security is completely fucked up, I don't know how to say it any other way. The safety defects that have been found are in more or less all computers in the world, Mac, Linux, PC, Windows, are irrelevant. The computer technology designed for the past few decades is essentially defective, and the safety windows are as good as everywhere. It's hard to try to scare people today because they've really gotten used to this speech now and somehow we're still able to work, and somehow this community is walking despite this. The main damage we're going to be aware of is disturbance, such as so - called baloney, or hostage - taking viruses and such, occasionally, some confidential or personal data, and from time to time, some institutions are hacked and so on. But there is a minor harm to the available possibilities. That's the problem I'm concerned about that the entire Western world does not realize, certainly not the common people, although it was likely the case with military authorities. This is: We know what war looks like, we can consult history books, and we can see pictures, and we can read text. Sadly, though, we have quite a rich history of war in history. Experience has built up, and we know some evidence that wars start and how to fight in them and how to do not. We have a law that, of course, is all going to be followed by warlords, etc. But we don't know what an information war would look like. We can guess, and even more carefully, read ourselves, and listen to experts relate all kinds of possibilities. But we've never really gone through it, we don't know what its manifestation would be, and the consequences in particular are unwritten. That's why I'm so worried about this. Even if you don't want to talk out loud about the possibility of a traditional war, we're gonna have to be able to think about it to the end. The time passes, mankind continues to be mankind. Things continue to get complicated. There's always this possibility. I think it would be good to wonder what an open information war would look like. It would not appear that individual data would be leaked or all. It would probably look, with a note that people should listen to more experts than me in these matters, so some of the structures play funny. Suppose, for example, that a tax investigator and the police in Iceland could no longer communicate except by means of conventional telephone calls. What procedures, then, have gone out of the window? Suppose, then, that the electrical system does or does. There's always a chance that we can be harmed by sources even on the other side of the planet in some way that we're not used to. We're not used to thinking like this, we always think about geographic warfare, natural, that's all we really have experience with. There is something else that I would like to mention that I find helpful in wondering: How would our friends and allies react if some kind of information campaign of a large scale against the West as a whole? We know exactly how 5th pars. The NATO covenant would work, we don't know exactly what happens, but we can give us some situation, let us know that if this happens, we will answer in a geographic sense, we will be in a familiar place from the history of war. But what if there were to be an information attack on a large scale against the West, and it would be very damaging to us: How would the United States react? Norwegians, Danir, British? I suppose they'd start by freaking out and doing their best to figure out what was going on and try to fix it. But in what order? How would they set priorities? I think the only way for Iceland, which is such a tiny country with absolutely no ability to deal with such threats alone, must be in extremely close cooperation with other countries on such matters. Then, as I've mentioned before in my speeches, I believe it is important that we keep in mind that geographic, military interests, global interests, and information-based interests are not necessarily the same. They are basically the same. It's, for example. As opposed to American interests, information security in Iceland is bad, that's what it says. But in cases where we have entered some kind of information force that we've never seen before and we don't fully understand it, we need to know who we're going to look for and who the nations are that are going to bring in this subject and of course political will, which isn't exactly the west of the ocean as well, unfortunately, while we have this Trump guy in the Presidency. You never know what the hell he's going to think of saying that he's next to Twitter and taking back or whatever he's doing at any time, no matter how he feels. We need to know exactly what the context of our information is. I can think of nothing better than the North countries; Denmark, Sweden, Finland, and Norway. These are similar kingdoms in many ways. A simple example of just details, to mention it, is how much we use landmarks, but also how we act in the way we do things. We are likely to use information technology in a relatively comparable way. Such information would probably be more similar in Iceland and in the North than, for example, in the United States. Iceland and Mexico, the United States or Canada, where information is different, where the consequences of some leaks are different and where the systems used vary. It's all something that needs to be checked into. None of this means much advice to the highest degree. The minister of state is much more concerned with the council and the public that this part is an unwritten paper. I'm not worried about that. Minister, whether it is a minister of foreign affairs or someone else, will do anything but his best. However, the aim here may be to stir the pot and to ask for this discussion so that we do not sail into this new period of time so that only the military authorities and the authorities who have their finger on their pulses and know what is going on. That's what I wanted to talk to you about. Even if I didn't have any special solutions, I'd need a little more intimate conversation with the highest level. Ministers of foreign affairs and institutions of their fine office to do so. But this is important, this is underappreciated. And if people think it's not imminent, it's just because we've done so well to convince ourselves that we don't.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u66	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator before the talk, which was similar to that of earlier today, except that it was the very nature of the matter, according to a much greater detail. Hv. A senator referred to this and correctly pointed out that the Internet is not everything in my field, although it tells itself that the matter is international and turns to our security and defenses, and may only show a good deal about the world's changing and changing rapidly. I'll share my concerns with you. A senator of these matters in general, and I don't have anything to say this morning. A senator continues to act. He rightly mentioned that this is one of the things that governments and ministers are aware of. But we certainly need to keep on the watch. This case won't go down as long as it's cool. A senator is here at the council, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u67	A respectable president. It's not likely that I'll let go without being taken care of. However, I have to tell the audience, perhaps just to comfort them, that the government is responding. This is ironic because there is now more debate between countries between the West and the East, and much of it because many of the institutions that are taking the lead in security are getting a little more important. It's like so many things, it's not so bad if it happens enough. It's really the worst if something happens suddenly. As we succeed in keeping our eyes on the ball, it is possible in itself that no disaster will come from this. It is like new technology and big changes, often including extreme threats, worries that must also be mentioned. I'm not much for quoting Rumsfeld, but I still liked one of the good things he ever said about an unknown unknown size, as it's called in English. Things we don't know we don't know. And there are a lot of them in this sector, information security. A lot of things we don't know we don't know. Lots of things we know we don't know. I'm not going to start repeating Rumsfeld's entire speech. But I think it's important to remember that a lot of this is really just that we're aware of what we're dealing with. It seems to me that it's getting better, but my main concerns may turn around because it's like so many other things, technology develops so much faster than culture, and then politics may be slow, but maybe in them the smell of politics, which is the greatest speed when people really worry about security, people may respond more quickly. I hope so in this case. But that is also in harmony with what I see both in answers to the highest. Ministers of foreign affairs and, indeed, when these matters are seriously discussed in general.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u68	A respectable president. I'm not up here because I disagree. A senator, but there is one thing that is the other side of the coin when it comes to this trend, it's not just a threat. These are indeed opportunities. It is the underlying tone of the report Foreign Service for the future. One of the reasons we're thinking about setting up a dictator or a business agency, and we're going toward it, in California, is to try to monitor exactly what's going on. It's no secret that we specifically looked at Dana who has said they have a digital ambassador, as they call it. Of course, it's not an ambassador, then, that it is more important that these large corporations, such as Google and others, have a greater impact on the course of world affairs than do many countries with whom they are dealing. There's a lot to it. Of course, it is not possible to have an ambassador to large companies as powerful as they are. It is a pleasure that the Danish State Department has been very willing to cooperate with us when we are preparing for this, and we will learn how they have started this process and how it will be used. It's going even. Try to have as good information as possible and evaluate what's in the pipes as on the way to help, especially high-tech companies in their case, Denmark, and in our case in Iceland, to get a level in this area and promote communication and so on. I'll bet you get a little heavy when you listen to what you're doing. A senator crosses the threat. They are indeed there. Happily, though, there are also many opportunities. It's important for us Icelanders to grab them. It is clear that the increase in our export has to be in the field of high technology, this so - called fourth industrial revolution, because we cannot just count on our natural resources, especially when we are talking about this vast increase.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u69	A respectable president. There is something, so the shouter in the desert sometimes gets a little low on listening to himself too. But certainly there are opportunities. The irony is that it's a bigger security issue because there's such an opportunity. These threats to infrastructure and information security are due to the enormous value of information technology. That is why such sites as Facebook are used by people even if they know that there are certain things that are dangerous to them, something that people don't really know, because they are very useful. That's why we have a social security number, something that I personally feel a little bit close to, because it's useful. All this technology is useful. It's just part of it. So I'm taking advantage of this opportunity to discuss the defense at the highest rate. A minister gives the report because the impression of the changes that come from the information technology revolution is something that we generally fail to achieve in my opinion to discuss with other reasons. I'm taking advantage of this opportunity. But I certainly hope that there will be a slightly happier tone of the subject when it comes to other matters relating to information technology. For surely there are great opportunities. If we know what we're doing, keep our eyes on the ball, keep our eyes on threats, and make good use of the opportunities, and that's great, of course. No one is suggesting that we use my technology. It's not too late to be here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u70	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of state and staff of the State Department for the annual report of foreign and international affairs brought here at the council. However, before I put myself in focus and policy, I'd like to wonder if it would be the source of the state's foreign and international affairs in Iceland's policy, like any country, to discuss it on Friday afternoon when the mind of the United States and the workforce is in the newly developed financial program of the government for the next five years and the work to be done by members of Congress and members of Congress in the next few days. This has often been discussed by members of the council and members of the committee. The Foreign Affairs Committee to increase the way of foreign and international affairs here at the Parliamentary Hall by allowing more time for a more objective discussion on the issues, whether at the council, the discussion of the post in the defense work at the Atlantic Community or the regular active discussion of Iceland's development policy. This has been true of many members of the Parliament who are now serving at the Council and of many of our predecessors here. I know it's the highest. Secretary of State, I agree on this. I also want to thank you for the newcomers published in the annual foreign and international reporting report on each Iceland's emissary emissary office, relative distribution of projects, business, staff and cost. This information clearly shows that the staff of the State Department is awake and sleeps in their work around the world to promote the interests and affairs of Iceland and a presentation of Icelandic culture in complete terms. How grateful we must be to them for that! It is obvious, therefore, that Iceland's emissary offices are now being fired with the slightest potential human resources. The embassy in Mozambique is closed, and it is decided to shut down the embassy in Vienna against Austria. This is done at a time when economic factors are in place to add to our presence in a foreign source and to strengthen our response and presence, whether in Brussels, Strasbourg, to the Council of Europe or elsewhere. After all, our presence in foreign lands is important, Mr. President, although much good can be done from the State Department of State in the Red Sea in Reykjavík. And it can also be wondered if these good and beneficial information would not be more relevant in other places, as in the state service report than here in the foreign minister's report on foreign affairs and international affairs, which is one of the most important documents in each government when it comes to policy and emphasis on foreign policy. Then I'd like to try to put my priorities and policies into practice, just as I had already declared. The report carefully reviews Iceland's international interest care and in dealing with other countries, such as the huge important interest care of Iceland when entering the British from the European Union, as stated in a financial programme under the foreign sector, is considered to be one of the most important projects in the Icelandic government of this miserin, or in Iceland's interest management for the EEA Convention. It is well and is truly necessary for the foreign service to be in active interest, but it is not quite as obvious political or political emphasis. Mr. President. It is not a secret when political parties that are in government together and that are far away from each other at the same time. that their policy in foreign affairs is that they are expected when it comes to emphasis and policy of risking the compromise to be rather flat. My expectations are that the emphasis of the left movement is reflected in the government's policy on foreign and international matters is great, perhaps too much, perhaps unrealistic, but they are truly there. To be honest, I would like to see a clearer emphasis on my political movements, such as the focus of the Icelandic government, to promote them progressively in speeches, publications, and the direct operation of international Bibles to match the approval of people around the world, but as we know, one of the greatest threats to world peace is growing. Inconsistencies in access to resources and natural quality are often the source of conflict, poverty, and social degradation, resulting in unfair discrepancies among the world's population and leading to harsh conflict. A gap between humans is the basis for peace. Iceland has to talk, not just talk, but work its way through it. We need to be fearless in our international emphasis to promote and direct ourselves in the process of bringing about radical changes in how we interfere with the interests of governments as well as within them, such as between classes, genders, and races. Iceland has to work on an international economic equation between people that reduces the risk of conflict breaking out. And this leads me to Iceland's focus on developing cooperation. Indeed, it is very positive that at last Iceland's contribution to development should be increased in the next few years, much more than enough after a year. I'd like to welcome the emphasis of Iceland's development teamwork, which is all about the power of women and girls in developing countries and their access to education, but I would have liked to see an even more ambitious goal in Iceland's donations for development cooperation and that we would finally fulfill our promise to fulfill the United Nations aim to provide 0.7% of national resources for developing cooperation, and thereby appoint us at last on the side of the countries that we all share with. After five years, we will make half of that promise for development. There, indeed, is a better way to do so. I'm sorry, but I can't see better than that here is the same emphasis as in the last government, which is providing part of the budget for developing cooperation with refugees and the rest of the country. The fact that these funds are part of the official development aid of Iceland in foreign countries simply does not match general definitions of development cooperation and is by no means consistent with Iceland's focus on developing cohesion. This ratio is mentioned in the peer circulation of the DEC Committee by nearly 12% of the resources of Iceland that are involved in the matter of refugees and inmates of developing cooperation funds. But hopefully all of us, at least most of us, can agree that there is indeed a need to increase money to that class but not to take it off money in developing cooperation. Within the DEC Committee, countries have been involved in bringing up these official budgets and it's a shame, but I hope Iceland is not part of the countries that keep this focus. I'm sorry, but this is very clear from the DAC report, which I think is unfortunate and must be absolutely correct. The causes of refugees and the hospices in this country fall under the Department of Health and Internal Affairs and should be separate from Iceland's contribution for international development. To that end, Iceland has to accept responsibility and put people in need to help out, both by accepting more refugees and by supporting people in being able to live with dignity in other parts of the world. This happens through the development team and more emphasis on their work. Iceland has a moral obligation to increase its contribution in evolutionary and humanitarian matters and to mention the terrible, military areas such as Syria, Yemen, and the horrors of the Rohkinum refugees. You see, all of us are supposed to keep busy in the humanity that continues to develop the empathy that unites us all so that we can solve our most difficult problems, such as terrible wars, disasters, and poverty in the world. I would also like to use this opportunity to commend what has been done well in development cooperation and what the Icelandic government and Icelandic employees have done through development cooperation, both themselves and in cooperation with an international relief organization. It is respectable, and it is truly wonderful, what we have come along, and it motivates us to increase our donations further. We can, we have economic opportunities for it. Mr. President. Then there's the security and protection. I declared yesterday in my discussions on the financial agendas of foreign affairs that I did a significant amount of money and a large proportion increase in Iceland's contribution within NATO to secure Iceland's defenses for the next five years. This vast increase simply requires a detailed explanation and discussion at the council. In particular, what the report says is the purpose of the 2016 joint declaration of Iceland and the United States that we are now supporting the temporary presence of foreign forces in Iceland. A worsening security outlook and changing the environment in Europe are used as a reason for this great support, which is so great that it is nearly three-fold increase in funds from it to the last financial programme. This is not a small increase and needs discussion here at the council. It doesn't have to be a tenth of the left movement's policy when it comes to security and defense, a policy that reflects left men's policies for nearly 70 years, as well as the policy of peacemakers in this country for decades. Iceland is not supposed to have an army, either domestic or foreign, stand outside military alliances and refuse to make war. This has been VG policy from an institution and must in some way be made clearer to the government's policy in foreign and international affairs. We can make up a nation without war, always exerting ourselves internationally to seek peace and speaking clearly against wars and peace. We are to show that we respect the United Nations Armistice Convention and international humanitarian laws, and we closely apply them. War and warfare will not solve any problems, as we know. Then we all need Icelanders to carry out feminist foreign policy. Emphasis on international gender and equality, further increases our contribution to international equality, and further increases our approach to these issues. We have very good experience from the development team and from our foreign service, and if we want to show the political importance of maintaining a foreign policy that continues with sexual equality completely, we can certainly look to Sweden, who has held out a more targeted and effective feminist foreign policy since 2015. We can learn much from the Swedes and, in my opinion, follow in their footsteps and take the lead in them internationally. Continue our fine international equality work, contributing, and making our work more purposeful. A respectable president. I welcome what is stated in the report on the increase in the impact of resource and environment on foreign and international projects on climate change. We know that increasing change in global resources and man's impact on the climate results in people's loss of resources, change of resources, and change in natural resources and environmental impacts that endanger earth's environment, ecosystems, and humanity itself. As countries, we have accepted various international agreements and commitments that center on environmental issues and measures against climate change. We can add important weights to the scales, so to speak, that Iceland is an island, not an island, and that we should contribute internationally when it comes to improving climate change. Finally, I'd like to remind you that Iceland is going to carry out independent foreign policy and that it highlights international peace, human rights and humanity, justice and democracy. Our history, culture, and community give us an advantage, and we are to take advantage of it and stand up straight in the back and with full confidence in our own small size. You see, few countries have accomplished wonderful things in the international context, and there we are no exception.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u71	A respectable president. Hv. A senator went over things, I thank her for that. I can't go through it all. I think it's a little strange, though, that she's talking something like we're not handling equality. It's all about our foreign policy. In fact, now on Monday I am visiting the Swedish foreign minister Margotar Wallström for an equal convention where I was asked to address and participate in a panel. It is because of our progress in equality in foreign affairs. I don't think it's fair to talk about it as if we're not doing anything. That's a long way from there. I agree with what. A member of the U.S. Department of State Department's staff is doing very well. We see great changes in foreign service all over the world, and that is why we left. at this job. The old image about the embassy is about to change, just because it's technical, and so on. That's why we have this move that she mentioned, e.g. shutting down in Vienna. In turn, we're adding a lot to Brussels for interestkeeping and the EEA. There are 243 million each year, much less. We have a client in Asia and America. When it comes to developing issues - if we are really going to help these people with self - help, they must have access to other markets. They need to be able to take advantage of their opportunities. Iceland and I have a fine example of this. These people are no different from us. We are exactly the same everywhere, no matter where we are in the world. The reason we have come to this place is because we have access to other markets. That's what these people have been fighting for, and we agree with them. Our emphasis on evolution is not merely the equality issues. A senator went in, but some other things I can get better into below. That's, I think, something we all should all agree on.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u72	Madam President. V.E.G. Secretary of State says that I stress that we do not promote international equality at all. That's not how I spoke at all. I'm sorry if that's how I feel about it. I said we should continue to emphasize global gender and equality, expand our approach in that and sharpen it, and make it more specific. I'm glad to hear it. Secretary of State is on his way to Sweden to speak at a conference and meet with his colleagues in foreign affairs. Swedish people are certainly very soon to do so. When it comes to markets and development cooperation, I think it's the highest. Secretary of State and I do not share my opinion on priorities in developing cooperation. I don't think opening markets is a priority for people who live under the poverty line and live under assistance in the form of development aid. I think maybe it's in other levels. But I always support Iceland's foreign policy and services when it comes to supporting the progress and presentation of Icelandic companies in foreign lands. I think it's exactly a very important part of the foreign service and it's been so far. But that it takes place within the development team, where I may not be in the same boat as the highest. Secretary of state.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u73	A respectable president. I see why. A senator right now. The reason Sweden is calling us, or Margot Wallström, to invite me as a representative of Iceland, is because people think we've achieved such a success that we have something to share. People have noticed that we have been focusing on equality, not just when it comes to evolution but also on business matters. One of the biggest events at the annual meeting of the Buenos Aires International Business Agency today was that of our initiative, the matter of equality in the business of vacations. That's what's being taken care of. In my introduction, I pointed out that it's not just about our position in foreign service, it's not something that's popped up in the Red Year's path. There I said that government contributions are not the only way to finance development cooperation. Work has to be more active in developing activities, in line with the appeal of the international community and inciting investments and commerce. This is the message in the results of an international conference on funding development in Addis Ababa in 2015 and for Iceland, according to the recent OECD peer review committee. Of course, it's always the same thing. We would never have broken out of poverty unless we had a very powerful job life. If we are to help people out of poverty, they must earn employment and income. That is what we have to do to help people and create circumstances for them to do so. The goal must always be to help others self - help. Happily, we have seen a change, a large number of middle classes coming up, and we are expanding our export to that population. This is because the brain has successfully succeeded, although there are still very many unsolved tasks when it comes to evolution. We will continue to be full - grown participants in helping out and contributing to that struggle.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u74	A respectable president. I know the agreement made in Addis Ababa when it comes to establishing companies, etc., as if there may be a larger part of developing cooperation than before. I believe, however, that priorities in development should be determined by the circumstances of people who live in poverty, poverty, and the threat of war - torn areas; in developing countries where people are simply trying to get in and out and put their children on the ground and shelter over their heads. It's an emergency support that developing cooperation is about most of it. Then there is another smell of authority for women and especially for young women. This has often been in the form of promoting women financially and financially. But when we talk about opening markets and how they're going to be cut into development partnerships, as I said before, we just don't agree completely, me and the highest. Secretary of state. But I encourage him when it comes to promoting the development team, to increase our donations, and to make sure that the funds are well spent to the most needed. I wish to the highest. Minister of Foreign Affairs to meet with Margot Wallström. I think they can probably learn a lot from each other. [[Up front.]] I hope it's the highest. Minister of state is filled with new ideas of equality in the Sweden Foreign Service.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u75	Madam President. First, I'd like to emphasize the importance of such a foreign discussion. This is where we're going to talk to the top of the report. The minister of state, who makes room for the council every time, but I would like to agree with the viewpoints that have been presented. of what? Our last speaker, Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynflffjordsdóttir, on the importance of having more discussions about foreign affairs. The foreign affairs, with full respect for all other groups, have so much weight and meaning for our daily lives, our international opportunities, in our dealings with the nations. It is important for us to set aside space for further discussions about foreign affairs at the council Hall, which is at the highest level of my life. That's what the president's got to do. I'm going to come back to the way we travel our foreign policy and how we talk about it. But I would also like to remind you that there has been an agreement that the discussion will be postponed, probably after that. paritaprevir Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir's beloved daughter has spoken, urging that it will be soon taken time for the discussion to continue. I know that at least my people in reverend, the members of the council, would like to discuss these matters. These are important interests, and it matters how they speak for Iceland in foreign lands, what Iceland's messages are sent out into the world, how we fight for or challenge the rights and duties that we also have to conduct on a international level. It is a kind recommendation to the highest degree. President. I'd like to agree with those who have mentioned that this is a very accessible document and pleasantly installed. I've been so high here for 20 years, and there's only a little bit more modern today than it used to be, and there's a little in connection with the report that I think we need to discuss sometime at a council hall on the newly formed foreign agency, a report at the highest level. A minister returned to us in the fall. Like us today, we need to take the time to review it. In fact, this report mentions important things in the introduction that the minister of foreign law went to his talk with this fine speed - reading. We've been doing a bit of a high school for the past few days here at the Senate Hall, but the introduction has rightly said, by permission of a president: A hundred years ago, Iceland was officially joined by other Western countries, who enjoy freedom and democracy, human rights, and free economy. World War II assured the Icelanders that the old neutral course no longer ensured peace and security. So it was necessary to withdraw from it and become a member of the safety community of Western democracy. Everything there is true and true. This is important. This lays the basis for how we Icelanders have in the last hundred years after we received a sovereignty of 1918 not only but also how we have a great deal of work, discussion, the collection of data, the protection of the sovereignty, and the validation among the nations of the world. I would very much like to agree with these opening words in the report, i.e. stressing the importance of international cooperation, the importance of facing the international obligation not only of being a sovereign nation, an independent nation, but also of international obligations. They're related to me thinking that then I believe our objective and policy in foreign affairs is to nurture and promote everything that can develop greater democracy in the world, since we are here, in fact, I believe that where democracy is preserved and that its policy of working is much more likely to be sustained by freedom, tolerance, equality, and love of neighbor. Enforcement of democracy, human rights, equality, environment and freedom in all its wide forms - these are the cornerstones of our foreign politics. I am convinced that all the steps we took during that hundred years, and especially since 1949, March 30, when we walked in NATO, are one of its founders, that these steps were successful. The report speaks of cooperation in the Northern countries, and I especially welcome it. I have participated in the government and have been chairman of the Committee for Ministers on the lawsuits I was responsible for at the time. It's not just that it's fun and rewarding, and new ideas come up, and it increases the depth, knowledge, and harmony in the northern countries, to be a bit more important to uphold and protect the democracy and human rights of the world. That's why it's so important that the North countries stick together and work on it. It's been going a long way. I often feel that there is not enough weight within the council. Yes, it's going well, meeting the other day in Akureyri, but we can talk more about it and work on it better. Therefore, I find it very interesting to observe how a foreign minister is going to keep an eye on the cooperation of the northern countries. I encourage him to do so in cooperation with the council, which is much more likely to be a minister's support than the rest. Why is cooperation important in the Northern countries? This is important from the basic purpose of our Icelanders for democracy, human rights and freedom and culture, the culture of which we Icelands belong by being part of the North countries. The North countries, most of them, have chosen to be in one or another cooperation with the European Union. The majority of them are members and full participants in the European Union, and then two of them, Iceland and Norway, have taken the long way by signing the most important foreign deal that Iceland and I have ever made, the natural EEA contract. Norway is an incredibly active country, and it is a bit fun and interesting to see, for Norway has a lot more money than we do, how they work their business. They come from the beginning to the full primary work of the European Union in matters that concern us within the EEA Convention. It is naturally wrong that has been claimed to produce 13.4% of the EU's regulations. We bring in exactly what the Norwegians do, it's high to 80%, as it says. The Norwegian report, it's just a little head-on, or it's being misdirected. We produce what we are at home, which is the inner market. We're not on the side, e.g. The agricultural system. We're not in the fishing business. [[Up front.]] No, we're not. We naturally bring only what we're doing. There we stand reasonably, may we do better. I did, indeed, yesterday as well that it is my goal to try to reduce the entrance site. The Import Hall did not start with Iceland's application to the European Union, but it started off much sooner, before failure, as reports indicate. This does not mean that we should not specify the time; we simply need to do well because this is important to us. Just based on Iceland's business views, our interests for tens of billions are counted by having been members of the EEA team and signing the EEA Convention. For this, even Norway's largest groups are an article that has never served in the government, the Hørerereh, and the Arbeidepartet, the Engineer Party Norwegian. They have not been in government together, but they strongly agree that humans should be part of the European Union. Although opinions within the classes are divided, men are associated with one another with respect, both the Høyre and the Arbeidepartet vision has been to be fully participants in the EEA community. There are only superstitious voices in Norway, which are the popu list groups that want to reduce the importance of the EEA community. We're supposed to go against it very much. I hope so, especially when there's talk at the highest. The minister of state last night, that he will become a very active team in running some EEA deal and building it under the one that's so important to us. National security, just picking on a big one, time flies from you. I'd like to commend the Minister for setting up the national security issue, that's what matters. I feel that as I have said, it has been a success for the Icelandic community to participate in NATO and have a full share in all international activities, whether through the United Nations, Western defenses, or anything else. It was a successful step. However, it is embarrassing for, perhaps not, to tell the government, but especially for the left movement, a green offer that still has in its basic policy that it is better to be out of the defense of the United States, outside NATO. Here comes the senators of the left green running in and signaling. Yes, it's all true, we don't want to be partners with NATO. It's good to be confirmed. Happily, however, the government has in its government covenant that a national security policy approved at the General Assembly will be guided. Well to mark, national security policy was agreed on by all paid votes except one class that sat by its base policy to be against NATO, that was the natural left movement of a high green bid. You're right. You're right. A health minister has noted that there is a socialist at the table manager who is opposed to Iceland's being in NATO and has now accepted this national security policy that they did not vote for, which they did not support but, fortunately, follow it. So I would like to commend the highest. Secretary of State and the Independence Party for having let the left movement in effect swallow this policy, because it is important. I think so. That's why I think it's important that the left movement have swallowed it. I don't know if they've officially taken this into account that national security policy is now a policy that VG supports and works. It was very clear and thankable that the prime minister visited the Council's State Department and explained very carefully that working and following their policy would not be a problem, this would be a democratic agreement in the council, and therefore the AG and the government under their leadership would work on it. It's important to be clear. I think it matters, and I'd like to compliment the one who pulled the left of the green into that wagon. I've talked about how foreign policy is shaped each time. That's good, and we're supposed to maintain this good cooperation, and I'd like to commend the current head of the Foreign Affairs Committee for being very relaxed and trying to contribute to this great conversation and cooperation, especially with the State Department. I want to talk about what I came from earlier. I think we're supposed to move foreign policy, and it's more important here into the conference because of the weight and importance of the Party. It's not just hearing the declarations of foreign ministers, we want more in here. When I say this, I'm in danger of taking the wrong places in international relations. What's the danger? It is that we make unwise decisions. Therefore, it is important that information shared, including half the world's highest. Foreign Minister, if you're correct, you're not taking them back. And we have, in my opinion, a very bad example of such and important votes. It's Bgreit. Everyone knows that specific information, detailed information, the masafing advertisements that if the British went out of the European Union, they would have at least 400 billion pounds into the British health system. Today, no one recognizes this statement and does not want to say that it was absolutely correct. What is so dangerous in foreign affairs, whether we are with or against the EU, it is that we do not share the correct information that such information is being carried as e.g. When talking about numbers, apples and oranges. I would like to encourage a foreign minister to provide information correctly. For example, a foreign minister has said that it would be bad to go to the EU - I would rather not go into the EU than the foreign secretary - we would be leaving a relatively simple business system, cross-border business, foreign trading systems. It's just not right. There's just no evidence to suggest that it's right. I'm gonna let me quote the records. According to a report from the World Bank, we have a 69th place in regard to business systems and international foreign services. We're below all the EU countries. Is it an extremely simple business system that we are defending? [[The president calls.]] No, Madam President. I have only one tenth of my speech, intended to include. coming to the point of how we take things further, which I think is important. [[The president calls.]] I will do so in the future on this matter, but overall I rejoice because we will have the opportunity to discuss it now. I look forward to further discussions.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u76	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I think you're absolutely right. Senator, proper information needs to be made. Where do I bring this information when it comes to what it does to enter the EU, where do I have it? Where would I get them from? It is directly from the working groups that were working on the adaptation talk back then. Straight out of them. That's correct. From the reports that were correct. Then we produce 13.4% of the types of the EU. There's no debate. Speaking of comparing apples with oranges, I'm telling you. To learn what is involved, a senator speaks of what the Norwegians talked about. They were not talking about the introductions. They divided this into a topic area, just as was done when Iceland went to the parties. Noteing the topic fields does not say anything, just says how many topics are involved, and as a result, we have three fourths into the European Union. It doesn't answer a few opinions. In fact, Norway also accepted all the agreements with the European Union, even with regard to agriculture and fishing, and so on. But for God's sake, let's just go to the foundation of this and go to the exact details and where they come from. The Invader Hall, anyway. A senator likes it better or worse, as a result of applying for membership in the European Union, began in 2009, and increased very in 2011. In case of a moment. A senator reads this report exactly what was taken down and what we were bringing up here. It is true that there were some details that were not accurate with Bbifit and some people had to apologize for the vote because they predicted that the economy would, for example, be the case. bear marvelous damage as soon as the British agree to walk out. I hope we have plenty of time, more dignified president, to do this. But it's interesting if it is. A senator is saying that the information coming from Iceland's workgroups in the EU is wrong. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u77	Madam President. Let us try to take this discussion a little further. I understand the highest. A minister may occasionally be aggressor to see me. I can be grossly boring sometimes. I admit it. But should we not try to take the discussion further? I'm incredibly happy that the Secretary of State wants us to rely on information. So, shall we say, and we agree that we do not agree with the European Union? Can we agree that the present international challenge is so great that it is now the time for the Icelanders to map and set up a committee similar to what was done, a transnational committee, in the time when we went to EFTA, in the leading of the Gylfi son of Gíslason, and then before well over ten years under the leadership of Bjarnason? All the committees that provided very helpful information for the council, as well as for the nation, something that the nation could look for. The Norwegian took two years to make a re-marker of the Per Seierstad status of Norway and the EEA Convention. Can we agree to have a good practice instead of being involved here at this council? I simply want to encourage a minister to do so and accept it positively. If not, we will be in an endless fight and failure here for the next few years instead of trying to build up and give something to the nation, for I believe that in the end, the European Union, by or by no means, it will come to the attention of the nation. Then we must prepare the groundwork for the nation in order to take a stand on it. I hope, though, we can agree on that, chief. Minister, put this on. Then I want to point the top. Minister on - I see now that I'm going to find out in my second answer - that it's just a kind recommendation. Can't we agree that we have a good work ethic, not some rivalry about who's right, oranges, or apples? Let's get this done professionally. I know that the minister of foreign affairs has the strength and courage to do so and to take the lead in this matter. That's what I trust him to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u78	A respectable president. Ever since I came in here -- I don't think it's been seen for the same long time, or else I don't remember - I've published evidence based on the facts of everything that's happening. That's what I'm going to do. Hv. A senator, and no problem with it, that's her freedom, has taken a few curves in these matters, e.g. in the matter for which she, and her company, have fought for it. It was just thrown out into the ocean before anyone spoke to it here for the last government development, but it's back now and says that they just want to walk in the EU. It is much better to take the discussion just like this, but of course we know what it means to be in the EU. But we have to get out of those pits, just talking about that stuff. The world is changing tremendously. We've got a huge project, like the Arctic. We have an enormous task that has to do with security and defense. We have a huge task of getting our products and services on the market so that we can maintain the standard of living that all classes of Congress agree on. We must get out of being able to discuss only one small thing when it comes to foreign affairs. In a conversation, talking about building it up, thinking about Iceland's position, where we want to go, how we're gonna take advantage of our opportunities, how we're gonna make us a competitive society, so that young people want to live here because we're competing for our young people, people have to expand their horizons. Human efforts must be made to become internationalally minded. You must start to look at what the world is and will be in the near future. Then let us do one thing, and I will make every effort to present all the information that is important in order for Congress and nation to accept that discussion. Here is an excellent report on the benefits and defects of the EEA, a major project that is important to be done very well to make a good foundation of it. [[The president calls.]] I got it. I got it. Senators to study the report I have here, as well as the EEA report. [[The president calls.]] If there are any false stories, it is very important to share them, but it would be surprising if they did.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u79	Madam President. I'd like to offer the highest. Secretary of State is welcome to that if he is going to think more of foreign affairs. It's different for me before. It is good that he is learning and developing as a member of the Ministry of State, for there are many good men and women there. I'd like to encourage the highest. The minister of state to take it further, to try to present a small business vow when discussing these matters, for the way we discuss foreign affairs is important, in the manner in which we put them. On the other hand, I'd also like to make the most of it. Secretary of State, for it makes me nervous to see where he and his party are going when it comes to the EEA, the EEA is being undermined by me on the part of the Independence Party. I'd like to encourage the highest, too. Secretary of State not only to play over Bgreit and Bgretts and their friends in the United Kingdom. Because Britain is negotiating with the European Union. We are part of the European Union's internal market, just as we are to protect our interests in the UK, the important country in the foreign trade services of our country. We must also take care of our interests when dealing with the British European Union. That means that whether he likes it or not, he has to go to Brussels, do what we're preaching in the foreign affairs report, do our homework on the basis of the EEA Convention, try to reach our comments and interests right from the beginning. This must be done now when the European Union is negotiating with the British. That doesn't mean pushing over the European Union. We must protect our interests on the basis of the EEA agreement. But given the way a foreign minister talks, I doubt that it will be.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u80	Madam President. Because our left - green course was established, whether or not we were still in opposition to our membership in NATO, I wanted to come up and say a few words about it. Yes, it is still our opinion in the left movement that we believe Iceland's interests are better off outside NATO. But it should also be seen that we are not as active, there are lots of other policies we want to fight for in politics as we consider important. We therefore feel that it is important to come to form a government event, despite the fact that we may have to work with groups that do not agree with us when it comes to NATO. Actually, it was so last time I knew we were the only group that's got this very important policy, i.e. Iceland's resignation from NATO. So we'd be judging ourselves out when it came to government participation, and about getting our other policy involved, if that was an issue of rest. It is true that when it came time to vote for national security, we were embarrassed. We did not vote against it because in the national security policy there are other factors that we consider to be extremely important. Let me give you two examples; the Internet security and Iceland's peaceful history of nuclear weapons. But we're also senators. We must submit to the fact that we are now in a smaller part when it comes to our stand on NATO, one of our goals in this council hall, to speak for our policy in that subject. Indeed, we will continue to do so, even in the government business.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u81	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir For this, the Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir and underlining the unique position of the left movement with a green supply. This is the first time socialists lead a government in Iceland, thinking that Iceland should be out of NATO. This needed to be clarified, so we applied what it meant. I thought it was a real blow to me when I was at the top. The prime minister came to the Foreign Affairs Committee and explained that the state would follow the national security policy on the basis of a compromise agreement. That was clear. It matters that it is clear, for as we heard before at the highest level. Secretary of State is very unclear about Iceland's policy on the rest of these issues, on important issues. We follow this course, we're trying to explain Iceland's policy under the leadership of this government. It is clear that the government, led by the left movement, will not only support the national security policy as it has been agreed, because it is the Congress that has rightly decided to be followed, but it will also continue to speak for Iceland at meetings, including. in NATO. I'm not as worried about this as I was at the beginning. I had already begun to experience that one minister would tell one and another ministers. What cannot be done in foreign affairs is that the minister of foreign affairs and the prime minister speak not the same language, especially that. NATO's summit.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u82	Madam President. I trust the highest. Prime Minister and Supreme Minister. Secretary of State very well to speak everywhere for Iceland's interests and highlight what we all agree on, i.e. Iceland is supposed to take advantage of world peace and security. I trust them very well to reconcile different viewpoints, because as we know them, these belong to the highest. two ministers, very different categories. Well, it's not totally strange for what. A member of the United States who is himself a member of a government group where there were differing opinions on another foreign matter involved in the European Union. I can see better than that, despite their varied views, their political leaders were successful in working on other matters. It is a tradition or culture in Iceland that there's a lot of different categories in this country. Of course, everyone must make compromises. But at the same time, all of us who belong to these groups must speak for our policy, for our emphasis, and for that course as we can. I hope that the government program of the left movement will provide a green supply and that we can raise our language, that it will increase our discussion, to form up our presence in NATO, and thus raise our views so that they will gain greater social success.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u83	Madam President. You're absolutely right. You can agree with that, but I think everyone must understand that this must be made clear when the first time in history is a group in charge of a government against NATO that his position is explained. And I have to say, I thought Prime Minister was successful in explaining this. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. After listening to the talks of the foreign minister, reading the report, examining what is happening in a foreign field, even in this country, declarations from the Independence Party - we see that in the forward category there is some opposition to the European Union and there is a great resistance in the left of greens to the European Union, some also opposing the EEA community -- far from me what is drawing up on the board right now. There is a measure of conservativeity, a measure of inadequacy and certain forces that are undermined by our cooperation on the basis of the EEA Convention. I warn them not to let them go and let them go. I don't think it's acceptable that three conservatives, or forwarders, or whatever name you name them, should compromise on how Iceland should behave on international levels and how we're going to build up the European community. I don't agree that the United States alone is the most important thing to us, as I have heard a minister of foreign affairs talking about, and Britain in second place. I think our cooperation is very much based on our cooperation and cooperation with other countries, as the Northern Nations have done. It is very close to Europe, and it is not by chance, both through the European Union and through the EEA Convention. Therefore, I will resist, as well as restoration, if at any time the minister of foreign affairs, with the support of the government, with the support of the left greens and possibly the forwards also, begin to undermine the EEA community. Then you have to say stop.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u84	A respectable president. I want to thank you in the beginning. Secretary of state for our report. I agree with someone else. Councilmen that it is extremely accessible, and they realize that significant ambitions have been taken. I also want to take advantage of this opportunity and thank you for the opportunity to take up a conversation about foreign affairs in this hall, especially because the discussion of this report is only broader than that of many times when conventions are discussed that involve foreign policy and foreign policy. But there would be a reason, as mentioned in the modern discussion, to take up a more frequent business and policy discussion in this council hall and perhaps to get a deeper discussion of individual issues and markets than next today and when these discussions are being held. It is clear that this extensive report on the number of cases, from the organization of foreign service and civil service and from international cooperation to a detailed and well discussed reports on the cultural, security, and protection issues as well as development cooperation - all of which are subject to a special discussion here in the conference hall. I hear that the main ingredient of this report is a good harmony here, and the result is to secure the security and defences of the country and commercial interests and to honor the basic value of human rights, human beings and equality. Although there are different emphasis on specific matters, as we know - here, for example. Talk about participation in the European Union and participation in the Atlantic Community - is not specifically under way in each country's foreign policy debate. In this government, as in the last one, the harmony of these two issues was in spite of differing viewpoints on policy. I would like to include a few aspects of the report. It's very good to have better access to foreign services, including those involved. The switch of tasks is required, and more is needed. It is important for members of Congress, but also for the public, to have good access to the arrangements and activities of the ministry in order to better appreciate the extensive work that is being done in many lands and how money is prepared. It is good to see that the aims and projects of a future foreign service report continue and to be able to monitor closely the progress of the projects in the future report. It also has a title by means of a slide, the Habitat Guard in a changing world. Indeed, it is the changing world that foreign services need to change to one another and to the technological development that is becoming faster than ever before. It shows the importance of the minister of the home ambassador and the emphasis on a new market area for example. It would be nice to hear a little more from a minister about the role of a local messenger, how he can see it better for the future, and how to develop that assignment further. Otherwise, on the subject of the report and the work of the Minister and Ministry, I'd like to be especially delighted that a special Department of Defense has been reenacted in the Ministry and that the national security issues are being governed by national security policy. A worsening security outlook and a change in the security environment mean that protection issues have to be placed in top priority, as the minister introduced them. It involves many, the work of the National Security Council, the cooperation of the Northern countries, and additional contributions to the seminary. I like the solidarity of this issue, but of course our active involvement in security, like any other European country, is important. We can do much to cooperate. We can speak the language of equality and rights and freedom of business, and our involvement in disarmament matters is also active. I am pleased that Iceland will become a host for the Atlantic Community conference on disarmament and mass destruction weapons in the fall. Another thing I'd like to come in briefly is the EEA deal. Our involvement in this cooperation has been extremely important, and it is still. Taking care of our interests and making good use of the EEA contract is always an ongoing and important subject, and this is a good review of the report. It is important that we always protect our interests in this regard and that the EEA deal is extremely important to us in many ways. We need to guard him and make good use of his qualities. It's nice to see a new report of the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the EEA Treaty. Step towards improving the implementation of the EEA Convention. There are some helpful information and corrective measures that often go wrong with the discussion. We've fallen behind, as mentioned here in the discussion of the day, in recording and induction of various types, but it's important, of course, that Iceland's perspective on the process takes place earlier. It is the key to our interest in the shape of legislation within the EEA. The report announces a campaign, but at the same time a State Department is about to work on changes to the terms of the Constitutional treatment of the EEA with the aim of increasing the impact of the Council on the preparation and development of projects where Iceland's interest will be assured as long as it is possible in the European Union's legislation. It would be nice to hear only from a minister of this work, but it's a job that's taking place in the third Foreign Affairs Committee and we think we can finish sooner than later. Of course, we are also wondering about people out there so that the legislature authority can follow this up even further. Maybe I'll just go on two other episodes for a second while I have time. Especially do I rejoice that the home ambassador is doing business on equality and that we are leading in a similar way today in this regard. The Government Treaty emphasizes that Iceland is a strong international voice and a model for equality. We are not to be afraid to conduct this discussion, since it is at the top of the World Economic Council for success in gender equal rights these past nine years. But we should continue to be leading and to share our experience. Iceland has been on the lookout for equality at all fronts. There is a United Nations scene regarding development cooperation. This is well explained in the report. But we can always, as in the equal case itself, make it better that this greater aspect of Iceland will be stressed by all of us on the international level. There we can especially apply ourselves to the nine world goals that are also addressed in the report. Iceland was there on the road, and it worked out that equality issues were not only special goals but also as part of other goals. Therefore, and I know that we will, following the lead and lead and encourage other countries to reach the five global objectives of sex equality, but also to take advantage of and be responsible for other world goals, where we are ahead and should be still as in education for all. A covering campaign on the UN's world target has been successful. I look forward to observing the progress of the group, the position of the goals and priorities in this country. I would like to briefly mention my Internet security issues, such as whales. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson's son came in thoroughly earlier. The State's policy on the network and information security of 2015-226 which was presented at the end of April 2015 was based on wide consultation by various members of society. The strategy was followed by a plan of 16 operations for the 2015-2018 year, which is very important and exciting to see how follow up will be provided. Then there is the increased ability to protect ourselves from the Internet, both state and public, the traumatic tolerance of community information systems, and the increased equipment to protect us from comparing information systems in the North countries, that Icelandic legislation is in line with international requirements and commitments on the Internet security and personal protection and police have access to or access to professional knowledge, the ability and equipment to solve matters relating to network and information security, in order to eliminate certain aspects of this work. It would be nice to get more weight, but there is also more to discuss with the Foreign Affairs Committee. V.E.G. President. There are a number of other factors in this report that give reasons for further discussion. We have had a fine opportunity to discuss Britain's eviction from the European Union with the Minister, especially the Committee, but a special report was published last year. But it's good to see the timeline and the development of the report and the Department's organization so clear. Then we would discuss our position here at the world vacation. Of course, there are many opportunities, the ones that we have just caught, but perhaps it would be nice to hear from the top of a vacation store. I'd like to finish this by encouraging all of us and the Senate to discuss here more often, get a chance to do so, on foreign affairs in this room without my extending the discussion here today. But I thought it was a great improvement.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u85	I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator and a president of what? The Foreign Affairs Committee for an excellent discussion, as she discussed a number of matters. We must wish when we expect to discuss the foreign affairs at a subsequent meeting, and that's fine. I think it's important to discuss these issues deeply. Hv. The senator referred to the report on the EEA Convention, which should be the basis for our situation with the aim of further promoting our interests. I'm especially glad to see you do it. The head of the State Department, Áslaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigbjörndóttir, handles matters with regard to the council. It's very important. All of this has to do with it. We know this when we are examined that the draft hall began when we applied for involvement in the European Union. The threats caused by it include the fact that it is being undermined by two supporting solutions, the structure of the contract. Unfortunately, our friends in the EU have not had the focus given in the EEA Convention. It's important to discuss their current issues, they're being undermined, for example. with claims that we take almost all of the introductions and put the EU into our legislation through the contract. That's not true. The numbers speak for themselves and they can't turn anything out of them. This is 13.4%. Hv. A senator referred to human rights, democracy, and freedom of business, which is a good solid agreement. You also need to know, because walking in the EU is always taking up the matter again, what it means for our business policy if we go in there. That means less business freedom for us. For us Icelanders, freedom of business is vital, and there are larger areas that are very important for us to achieve even better treaties. One is the free trade agreements, one is the air travel agreements, two tax contracts, and investment contracts. I'll take it better in the second place than I'll answer the question.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u86	Madam President. Thank you very much. Secretary of state for this. I think it's the highest figure. A minister noted that over 13% of the types and directives taken from the European Union are adopted through the EEA Convention, and many of the Spanish have seen this very much inconsistencies of reality. It's often spoken as if it were much more, so I think this report and further discussion of the EEA Convention and its positive effects and benefits are of the good. We should be leading in this country to look out for it and to keep it in mind where we were going and what it was for us to enter into this partnership and take into consideration the benefits we have taken away from us, and then to take advantage of ourselves for the future. Then I'm going to get a little more involved in our business interests and opportunities in many areas to strengthen us. I think Iceland is in a tremendously powerful position, especially now, to improve its competitiveness even more competitively. I can't wait to hear the second answer. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-13-49.u87	You're absolutely right. Senator, other information has been kept away about the EU types we enter through the EEA Convention. Why is this done? That's what anyone who wants to walk in the EU, that's to get the feeling that we need to walk in anyway because we pick up so much. It's an ugly game, and it's digging off the EEA deal. A man might suggest that there should be enough agreement on the EEA deal, real solidarity, but that doesn't mean we don't have to protect our interests. There is a concern that is highlighted in the package 3 of the EEA interest monitoring report as to the number of technical regulations and standards, testing and the number of Witnesses. This has become an enormous figure. Often it is a technical business barrier, and it will affect a nation like ours. We need to be alert and give careful discussion of the facts. I think this afternoon's discussion has been good even though it has only been dropped in personal innuendos, but it's just the way it works. It was at least low ratio. With regard to the free trades agreements and the air travel contracts, there has now been a contract on India. Me and the Icelanders start flights there in December. EFTA has many irons in the fire, and we've been trying to deal with India for a long time, but I don't know how well it's going to work. Then there are Indonesia, Mercos, South America, Vietnam, and other places. For example, we are also trying to obtain free trade agreements with Japan, and EFTA also has Canada. It is important to discuss these matters in the skin and to be informed, especially at the right time. The Foreign Affairs Committee, about the emphasis we have and what other EFTA countries have. Without a doubt, we have most red lines in comparison with those nations, and we find them liberal when it comes to a vacation store. We need to take advantage of these opportunities. It has become so that air traffic agreements can even have more positive effects on business than free trade agreements, so we need to discuss all of this in context. I hope so. The head of the State Department gives me the opportunity to discuss this with the committee. [[The president calls.]]
