ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u1	Borist has received a letter from a marine economist and agri-gri-gri-gri-gritary minister asking for a written answer. 245, on a beach fishing, from Bjarni Jónsson. It has also been received from a foreign minister asking for every request in order to give a written answer to a covering query. 256, about Iceland's dictators, from Smári Mccarthy.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u2	To answer, Prime Minister, Economic and Economic Ministers and Education and Culture Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u3	Mr. President. Silence often says much more than words. It has become the howling, the silence of the provincial Party Chairman of the Independence Party, the most powerful party in the country, in large, serious, and controversial matters. This is certainly true in the case of the young man who was beaten in prison and sent out of the country. That was a disgrace to the nation. Quiet. Secretary of the arms business is also screaming. He sees no reason to respond, though it has been found that governments he was involved in and ruled largely authorized to send weapons to Saudi Arabia that are likely to remain in order to slaughter innocent people, children, and women in Yemen and Syria, in places that are likely to kill innocent people. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Bryenlfóttir reminded me that the world's slaughterhouse was called by an advanced human rights manager of the United Nations. Legally, consult with the Foreign Affairs Committee on major business issues related to foreign affairs. This is inevitable. I'm asking the highest. Minister: Why does he feel that it was not done? And in view of government's well - being, why have the matter not been further examined and enlightened? Where the highest. The minister of finance has now become quite known by hiding data and putting reports under a seat, why should the nation really believe that it is the highest. The secretary of finance and the former prime minister of the nation knew nothing about the matter? I ask, Mr President, is this another example of the secretism of the Independence Party?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u4	A respectable president. I think the case we're taking up here deserves to be let go of all this petty shit like that. A senator goes in here. To accuse men of secretism and to sweep under the carpet of some sort, and to mix entirely unrelated details, I don't think that is a discussion of this matter. The fact is, it's more than likely, and it's only natural that the council, on the right grounds, ask questions, explain how such things happen, what it is in our operating system that may have gone wrong, and that the public has brought weapons that could possibly have been accessed to those referred to here, namely. Into the war zone. I think we all have to accept that in a discussion of this nature, and this matter, in fact, in particular, we are living in a much complex world. It is not simple for any Icelandic government to get to the bottom of each situation. But in the case of weapons, surely careful research and explanation should be made. I think the latest example we have from the Icelandic government shows that this is exactly what humans want to do. But if we want to get the full understanding of this matter and ask the right questions as to whether there are points in the Icelandic government, in the administrative system, that need a review in the cause of the present case, it is the best thing to let go of all the shits that are going on in the platform.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u5	Mr. President. V.E.G. A minister can call what he likes to shit. When a case is hidden, we can call it an accident. A second time, it may be a shy practice, but when it happens in the third, fourth, and fifth times, it is a rule of work. Indeed, the Independence Party has already shown what its rules of work are when it comes to data that he feels should not be placed on an international scale and be able to put a bad party into place. But I think it's right to ask the highest question. Minister: When did he know about this move? And because these are extensive transports: Is it credible that no minister has known anything for all these years? If he did not know, he should at least know.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u6	A respectable president. I just have to admit that I don't realize what's wrong. A senator refers to me as a minister of finance, or after an incident with a prime minister, as to what the load was in a single Icelandic legal plane in a foreign country. Where's what? A senator, really, is he here? Does he really think the secretary of finance is going through the manifests? This is a completely unshrunk cream that is presented here. It is obvious that it has never been on my side to review the administrative factors that need to be considered in these matters. That's what I thought was going on at the State Department investigation. I reiterate what I say: Let's just try to hold us back with a shit attack between classes that I feel is a problem. A senator goes straight in and puts much more emphasis on understanding the nature of this matter and asking the right questions about administrative decisions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u7	Mr. President. I'll direct you to the highest level. Prime Minister and Minister of the Economic Affairs on the latest information going on in the Aion Bank that has arrived during the day, probably just one or two days after the government handed the government over to the hedge fund, their advisers assume that the bank can pay at the next eight billion dollars, 80 billion dollars. In wages for owners, for the hedges. In addition, it is becoming more and more clear how much the bank's roommates are worth, worth considerably more than the bank's books, and realize that the share of the State in all of this will eventually be much smaller than was founded and easier to compare this with the Bank of Iceland because it was actually meant to produce comparable conclusions. Iceland bank was delivered to the state in one piece. In the case of Arion, however, governments have repeatedly given up on government, government status, and taxpayers, the public of the country, paid a substantial amount. There was a permit to sell a share at the bank, the government granted it, then they had the premium they didn't use, and now it lies ahead of the last conversion, after the government actually played with them in the complex, and they were allowed to use the bank to buy in the bank for themselves, to the state's position, and to the situation of the case is severely reduced and damaged. What's the bottom line? Prime Minister on this matter? What's the bottom line? (b) What questions will we consider? Prime Minister to see that 80 billion are expected to be paid out for a hedge fund instead of running into a government fund?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u8	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry, expecting us to take up a more detailed discussion on this subject on Tuesday in a special discussion from then on. Senator. Last time we had a word, I pointed out that the stability agreements back then had not been published. Since then, they have been published, for access to the public. This has been discussed in the media. It explains how these matters are handled in the stability contracts, i.e. that, on the other hand, there are 84 billion, now more than 35 billion, and the budgets defined in the stability agreements according to the interest paid. That should be why. A senator who shared in making these stability contracts to know better than anyone here in the hall. First thing. A senator asks how things work then, of course, he well knows the basis of what is now being built on, the stock agreement, the 2010 General Assembly of 2010, agreed with the 2012 Council, the stability agreements based on the stability conditions that have been published so that everyone can study this, which assumes that the interests of other shareholders and the state will actually go to the maximum value of the bank. That's what future public interests are about, i.e. that the State can make the most of its contribution to the bank and to the stability agreements it makes. That's how things are growing. It has now been published by the Ministry of Economics, which makes this point that the estimated financial gain of a state fund for Preservation/Arion Bank is about 150 billion dollars. I think this will explain the situation quite well.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u9	Mr. President. I'll make some comments to that answer at the highest. Minister in a special discussion, as the Minister mentioned, I don't have time for it here in one minute, but I'd rather use that minute to ask about another bank, the Bank of America, and its plans, the bank of state, to build huge headquarters on the most expensive property in the country just a few blocks away in downtown, a property much bigger than the property the bank intended for when the National Bank was to be one of one of the world banks and to build headquarters in Reykjavík. It was smaller than the bank's building on this one. And the house less than what the State Bank, the Lands Bank, is going to build now, at a time when there is going to be a major change in banking services, when it is clear that the scope of banking services or building will be reduced. In addition, it is clear that at the front of the bank, there is a significant restructuring of the bank. It is to sell a large portion of the bank and reorganize its activities. What's the bottom line? ▪ At that point, the Lands Bank, the prime minister, will build new headquarters on the most expensive property in the country, larger headquarters than the Lands Bank, planned to build in 2007? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u10	Mr. President. I expect this plan to be overstepped in the administration of the bank, where the government's banking board appoints representatives of the state. On the other hand, I do not know that the Lands Bank has come for sale, as I thought it would be. A senator suggests his inquiry. I don't think there's any reason to start selling things at the Lands Bank soon, but it's important that we look to the rest of the financial system for a reorganization that the financial system will change. [[Up front.]] We're gonna go for a second. A senator agrees, and we will see changes in financial activities. I expect national banks to take into account when they make their plans, whether it's about building houses or other activities, that we're going to see a lot of technological changes affecting the activities of a local bank that are expected to affect plans, such as this. There's a senator here. Now I don't know exactly what the discussion has been in the bank's administration on these matters, but it must have been in that discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u11	Mr. President. Now the rise of the economy has been at best for a very long time, absolutely positive things happening in the economy. But it is obvious that this will not go on forever. Today, there are 4% of unemployment that seems to be high compared to the past few years, with some social groups looking up for the first time since the collapse. There is an economic forecast that economic growth will be restored to 2.9% in 2019 C.E., some of which have begun to call soft landings. Economic growth is 7.4% this year. The numbers of various other institutions of the world indicate that it is much lower. There may be different assessments, and one of the partners is down to 3.1%. It's lower than average economy in the world. I'd like to ask the highest question. - Is there a crash in the maps? Are any actions intended to try to cope with this disastrous trend? Is there anything that the government will do to ensure that our economic growth continues and at least above the global average for the next year? And will any of these potential plans ever appear to us here at the council before Easter?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u12	A respectable president. These are very interesting numbers, as we speak. A senator brings in the discussion of the economy. The situation is that we are now living our longest continuous economic growth. It was not to be expected that economic growth will continue with the strength he has done in the past few years. I'm not worried that economic growth will go down by 3% and even if it is in the range of 2.5How3%, as indicated. Especially after this very high reinvigoration of the crown, which is due to the same economic growth season, a very high number of tourists in the country have had a powerful effect. It can also be said that it is not to be expected that in developed economic systems such as ours, especially after very long economic growth, economic growth will only continue into eternity and far beyond the global averages like a dog. A senator says. Perhaps more economic growth is expected from new market countries and countries that are extending their farms and are in the midst of extensive infrastructure and the application to improved biographies. However, when countries present a standard of living among the nations, as is true of Iceland, it is especially difficult to maintain growth as powerful as it has been in recent years. I believe that we are sailing for a considerable change in time right after this powerful economic growth, that we will see hopefully more balance, less growth between years, fewer unexpected prizes as we have seen. It has almost been customary, since the budget has been submitted until the next economic forecast is published, we have from a further 151⁄2-20 billion people to play for the coming year of interest. [[The president calls.]] I think that's the end of a period, we're going into a much quieter time. There is no need to proclaim bad news.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u13	Mr. President. First of all, I'm going to say it's wrong at the highest level. Financial and economic ministers, this is not the longest economic interest in Iceland's history. This is the third thing for all predictions to follow. Also, the case is that I asked about operations, not predictions. I didn't ask what the highest opinion was. A minister of finance would be in the way we would walk, but I asked which actions of the government would prevent a crash. Now the crown's scholarship is an interesting subject, as well as whether economic growth will go below the world average, which is usually a indication that we are following up a trend that is an underlying century worldwide, even called the Kondratiel wave. But we must at least be able to follow such countries as Estonia, which have no immature economy in any way. It foretold a length of 5%. What's going to happen? The secretary of finance to make sure that our economy continues so well in the long run?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u14	A respectable president. Perhaps the short answer to the question lies in the fact that the government intends to focus on innovation and evolution in the years to come, to support innovation and evolution, so that there will be greater value, greater production, and growth. New jobs that are valuable to us. If you were to go out on a further answer, I would point out that it was actually revealed in the budget, in financial policy. The government cannot take on its own to maintain stability and growth in the economy. Rather, it is a common government project, and I am referring to a government, along with rural governments, in cooperation with the labour market. A person has to hold on to stability and growth, and then, of course, money is involved. The interaction between the interest scale, government of public finance and the workforce, the interaction of these factors is the key to maintaining stability and growth in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u15	A respectable president. I'm going to direct my question to the highest. Prime Minister Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter. I'm going to talk about microbubble issues. What are the cripples, and what position do they have on the side of this government? Are we crumbs to dust off the table or scavengers to be wiped away? Do other laws on marriage terrify? Does the State have any thoughts of contraception about having too much money to be married so that babies do not become and they do not multiply? Are we consumer food? Are we at the store shelf, calculated according to consumer science? Our money funds are calculated according to a consumer science number, but not with a pay number like all other employees. That was close to twice as long as the New Year's. What are we? Packs in cars that are forgotten when you go to coffee? We have agreed to the United Nations Convention. We're going to sue him. So, what do we do? The best example of what this covenant is to guarantee us lies in the Power of Mind, its mental - health teams, and its follow - ups. It's supposed to be ruined. What's being destroyed in there? A party that works 100%, is great, has a thousand people behind them, a thousand comets a month, 12 thousand comings a year. It's supposed to be damaged. I'm asking. That's 55 million under there. Little pennies. It's starting to ruin this, starting to tear down right now. I've been trying to get answers. Those in the Spirit and others have also tried to find answers to these questions, and there is no one. It's just a simple offense to make sure that someone with a mental illness in Iceland is to be thrown out on the street. Because it's working. I sincerely hope that the prime minister will see to it that this will continue to function and make sure that the Power of Mind gets what he wants.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u16	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. I'd like to say first, because he asked if the poor were on my mind consumer products or something like that, of course not. Despair is like all of us in this country; people who struggle with sickness or disability. I had a very good meeting, along with my body of Congress, with the Corning Community last week. It revealed that during some period of time, about 10 to 15 percent of the population suffers from some form of disability. This is what many people know, and many have come to know. So I find it necessary to say that, of course, I agree. A senator's importance is to ensure optimal disability. The Minister of Social Affairs, who conducts this seminary, has introduced the Qualification Society and a Developmental Plan for a discussion ahead of the issues we also covered at the earlier meetings. There will be representatives of these organizations and governments outside the United States, where there will also be any representatives of the Generals. It is very important that the discussion is moving quickly and with good results. Hv. A senator so specifically asks about mental health. They were put first in the last budget, for instance, in terms of the proliferation of psychologists and the support of mental - health services in many parts of the world. In terms of the subject of Theory, they have been on the table of Health Ministers, and she has explained the issues at the council, the last in unsupervised inquirys not long ago. I expect her to take the case and take it seriously. It is important that we build this society up, whether we are talking about our institutions, our schools, our health institutions, and even our entire workplace, so we deal with mental health issues. [[The president calls.]] We see striking numbers of anxiety and depression all over the system. We have to loosen the roots and start from scratch.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u17	A respectable president. I appreciate the answers. But if it's the highest. Minister says we're not consumer product, why are we up-rate pensions with a consumer cash number? Why is the pay card not used? Why has it never been used? It says clearly: If there is a pay number and then a consumer calculus, if more practical. A mental force does not agree with what has been presented here, does not agree with a health minister, and does not agree with a social minister. They see to it that they can lay down. It doesn't matter if someone's head is set up. Put a psychiatric team into 101, 102, head off, which cannot be run in between. But do not destroy the good that is already there. Another problem with social security: A krona against a dollar's impairment has nothing to do with employment assessments. Yet, it is being mixed together. There are no connections between us. Why does a person not have to make changes in a crown against a dollar like a pensioner? Why on earth do you need to ask that question when it comes to your ability to work? Is this done to postpone it for one, two, three years?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u18	Mr. President. I'd like to state it because I told him that the subject of Humunity was on the table of Health Ministers that they're on the table at the highest. Minister of Social Affairs, just to be thought of. So I finish what I said about mental health, I think that we as a community really need to get into the roots and wonder how it says that up to one third of college students are depressed or anxious, we're getting similar numbers from high school, and it doesn't just go away. We also need to look at how we can deal with the root causes, how we can view society, and how it has developed so that we can view causes, not just the consequences. Hv. In his second inquiry, a senator began to discuss the microchip, and as I pointed to earlier, it was the highest. Department of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities has provided a plan for reviewing these issues. Societyal activities are some of the things that professional assessment is about, i.e. More participation in society, I think it's a very desirable goal to reach. There, we all need to gather together, including the fact that assignments are available that are appropriate for this group. It has discussed part - time work and so forth, seeing how the workforce can react. That's a long-term goal, but we still need to discuss it, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u19	Mr. President. I'd like to have a place to talk to. Prime Minister on the evaluation of the effects of legislation and careful legal procedures. Now that the government has recently, last year, established a procedure and carried out a series of procedures that should serve that purpose. You're right to celebrate. What I wanted to have at the top. The Minister is an assessment of influence. Usually a good report is made for the evaluation of the effects on government funds, but less is involved in actual assessments of the effects of laws on the job and those about to follow new rules or changes. In this regard, I have a particular interest in the fact that we have legislation, or law on official control, which is from 1999 on the basis of their law. It seems to me that this assessment of the effectiveness of monitoring rules and the best way to not be, we should put it this way, carried out as we should. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister, whether he intends to use this assessment specifically in a more progressive way. And especially if a minister intends to use himself to more closely comply with the laws on official regulations and regulations set out there.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u20	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator of interest. It is true that there are laws on official monitoring, and this report has been prepared at the General but not in a regular manner, as it should. I'll just take a hint. A senator will review it to me at the Ministry when such a report was last delivered. I believe it's been years since if I know it correctly, even up to ten years, I'm afraid to do it. Of course, such a report should be done on a regular basis at the General Assembly. Of course, in terms of the evaluation of the law in general, it's just one smell of it. A senator named here, i.e. The official monitoring guidelines involved in reviewing the activities of the surveillance organisations, giving a review of their effects on the job and the need to be monitored under a lot of pressure. I believe that the aim of monitoring should always be for the benefit of the public. Rules need not be complicated to be efficient and to be effective for the public. Of course, with regard to the big question of the evaluation of the law, we have come into a much philosophical discussion. We know that here at the General Assembly there are laws that we even believe affect certain groups but that they do not have the desired effect. So I think part of our project is to implement a much more consistent evaluation of the laws we have set. I'll mention, for example, the conversation we've been discussing the payment system that we shared in putting here at the General Assembly and the political solidarity that I believe was very important. This is now criticized because its effect is not as expected and even has increased the expense of certain groups. Then it is our job to go down into it and determine if the purpose of the law has been fulfilled in the way we intended.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u21	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The answer is made by the prime minister. I'd like to reiterate the discussion or focus more on the monitoring procedures and job monitoring. I completely agree with the highest. Prime Minister for monitoring to benefit the public, that is the primary objective, and we agree on that. However, I believe that its arrangements are very unnecessaryly burdensome and that they can be carried out in a more consistent and simple way than they are now. In particular, I would like to point out that the model state of the electronic administration, Estonia, is under the direction of the very successful management of companies. This is much less burdensome to those on whom the surveillance is directed, but it produces better results than the previous. That's what I'm pointing to at the highest. Prime Minister to learn about the arrangement there and whether we could follow in the footsteps of Esta in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u22	Mr. President. There's been a lot of interesting things in Estonia, not just about these matters, but about electronic administration, electronic democracy, and other things I think are worth all the attention. To see if we can learn from this, we should do research. In the surveillance issues, I think increasing transparency is really the key to the public. Then I look to these simple things, which have been making progress in recent years, in terms of food meaning and other things that may at one time be burdensome, yet are the absolute key to consumers just to identify their impact on the consumer products. I think in these matters we must simply keep the viewpoint in mind that the reasons of the surveillance need to be clear; the rules need to be clear and transparent; they do not have to be complicated to achieve the results we want to see, which are primarily of public interest. I think we're gonna do what. A senator would agree. I will consider his observations on the laws on the official monitoring regulations and how their conduct has been carried out.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u23	Mr. President. I was studying the council's work programme, and it looks like, if I haven't misjudged, that there's only 19 meetings days left until the break we're doing for the county election. After a break, after the election, only seven meetings are expected. The issues the government said they would not bring here, just a few cases. Today, for example, there are on the agenda of two EEA matters, and of the issues given, there is not one government case. Of course, we must ask: What is the cause? Does the government not agree on what matters to pass through the council? Is there a halt in the council? Or is it just a general lack of character and ambition with this government?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u24	Mr. President. I agree with what. A senator and to be tempted to answer that question, I remember last week, under the same circumstances as the occasion, speaking a platoon officer. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, that these cases had been handed over from VG, so it's probably locked in an independent and forward party and that's probably not a unit on the subject. If this is to be the rule, that this is the way it should be done, and even though in the present government, there is a group that was loudest about the same thing last year, I think it is time to change the procedure, that we reviewed the Council's schedule, of course now, and work further into the summer, and then it's long time that we start aiming at our present, not our old farming, or anything else.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u25	Mr. President. This morning, we did a well-cut bill that had to be taken care of by the law containing zero regulations. This is a government bill. Well, that's fine. It's always good to clean up the library. But this is one of the few primes that have been reported by the government. I wondered, " What is my priorities? ' Is it not possible to get some of the fine stuff that was presented in the government file? Is it not possible to get enough of them at least so that they can be fully discussed and considered well before we are forced to try to resolve as much as most of them in spring? I say, as I've said before, the lack of organization on your part will bring no emergency on our part at May. It's not gonna happen. We won't allow it. We have to do things better. There must be a higher issue from the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u26	Mr. President. I sat with a professional company this morning, and there was certainly this big case on the Southnesian Heat, their demolition legality, and then we were on board for the year's year, the huge river that goes on, and it's very normal, to provide marine espionages of authority to consult the Marine Research Institute. A case we know from last year's time, probably and naturally. V.E.G. The prime minister was here yesterday with official surveillance regulations.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u27	No.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u28	No. Any other case that's not a great bookie anyway. There's not much of a fancy figure there's to say right now. That's why it must call for the highest power. Now, the president of the council will accompany us with members of Congress who have held a lamp in this council, held the program from Christmas, and tried to get the message across the council, whether in a government or a government position, to be paid off by committees and discussions here. I want to say something very strongly. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthyr; inactivity, neglect, neglect, or discouragement of the government in saying things will not create an emergency in the council. We can keep a work programme. [[The president calls.]] We can handle the Senate case. [[The president calls.]] Not unless the government intends to use the meeting that will be on July 18th this summer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u29	The President got carried away. A senator got an extra 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u30	A respectable president. I had a certain list of the situation and went over it the last time they talked about it. As I gathered earlier, 17 cases were suspended, 1st. or previous round. Of these, there were four of them, who are now two, since two were finished yesterday. Some other issues were over, but yesterday's numbers were up to six of the members of the greater section and seven from the minority council, a total of 17, which has declined since yesterday. There are not many cases ahead of us. and 1st. After that, the program is done, and what should we do about it? Call off meetings? It'll be very interesting to see. I also wanted to draw attention to it, because it is spoken of the importance of the future economy, etc., that the secretary of finance once said that there was some goal in innovation. But when we go to a bill for financial purposes, there's an increase of 0.2% for innovation. I would like some prime news to show that serious emphasis is being placed on innovation of the council and the government, because it is not found in the budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u31	Mr. President. We're in politics for influence, for the change, unless we're members of the conservatives. The failure of the government reveals that we have here three conservative groups. I thought, at first, when this government began to rule, that it was one of the conservatives, the Independence Party, who did not want much change. I'm sad to say that with the left green, maybe not in the fad, it seems the same thing. We saw the law here before Christmas. Almost no change from an advanced government. We see this in financial policy, which we discuss on the budget board today, that there are virtually no changes between governments. One wondered, " What did these groups go to this government, green and progressive, with green and green? ' In this council hall, lack of effort and inadequacy is reflected in the absence of political launches.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u32	Mr. President. The lack of work is beginning to keep the nation clean. The government does not have the authority to handle matters that were best discussed before elections, and some of them promised the most. I'm talking about the poor, the elderly, the desperate, and the young. Instead of taking this case firmly, it is used as a change in collective agreements, and it bites on them there. I think you're right. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson said; this government is based on locality, likely on surrogacy, marine emissary, and agricultural standards. It's a maintenance board.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u33	Mr. President. Right here, we had an excellent conversation, me and the highest. Prime Minister, careful legislation, and evaluation of the effects of legislation. I felt quite consistent in our exchange of words. I wondered, " What is the highest opinion? ' The prime minister is in harmony with her mind about careful management, that we could do better, and that we would need to evaluate more about the effects of legislation, if one intends to stick to the government's Constitution, and amend the batch that is coming at the appointed time. I'm very afraid there won't be a good set of laws, not laid out, and not as good as it needs to be. I'm really worried about this. [[The president calls.]] I don't believe anything but to the highest. Prime Minister will take advantage of these matters more seriously.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u34	Mr. President. The small number of cases from the government has certain advantages. One thing is that at the council, we can be senators working on our affairs, and that is what even happened. has been going on, and the other is the inspection role of the council. One of the most important roles of the council is to ensure that the state and institutions of the administration are fulfilling the laws and regulations established by the council. We've had a lot of time to do it now, that's very good. If there are ministers at this time to do their job well, such as a health minister seeking first health policy in the future, that is good too. The bad news is that some things the people want to put first, as has been mentioned here, may be being neglected, for many groups of society. It will be this government to deal with the voters and the people of the country. When it comes to the council, when matters are late and the work is done quickly, the council can't be called when it comes to a session of Congress and we don't have time. Then the government is to blame. Congress needs to take time to work well at the affairs of the government. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u35	A respectable president. I feel that if the government isn't going to submit all the issues presented in the Constitution, then it should be updated to the Constitution as it appears on the Board of Directors. For what? We've received an updated document from the highest level of the EEA and Business Committee. Economic and financial ministers presenting 24 cases, of which 11 have already been submitted. From industrial and innovation ministers, four cases have come up as far as I can see from fourteen. So there's a lot of inadequacy. I think it is very important that it is quite clear if the government is not going to bring up certain matters because otherwise it will happen at the end of a council all too often, that there will be trouble with the job and a great demand that things are done faster than possible to do well. Second, when we start discussing these matters materially, we will be complained about the need to remain silent because these matters need to be resolved. [[The president calls.]] I'm worried about this. In any case, the government should inform us of the issues she does not intend to submit and update her Constitution accordingly. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u36	Mr. President. I'd like to allow myself to protest. Logi The Har - Magedon of Ólafur ÁgústssonMár the Einarsson of Ágúst, was discussed with us in maintenance. I have considered this government to be the government of three progressive groups, but, of course, it's controversial which is worse. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I am fully aware of that. But, for all laughs, it's a test of the government, to execution, and not least to the highest level. For a president to change a procedure here, the words that are so beautiful in the constitution of a change in practice at a council will not be just words. Now is the opportunity, now that we are calling not only for matters from the government but when the council is in the process in which it is now, with a lot of cases from members of the council that can be handed over. I strongly encourage you to do so. On the other hand, I don't like to feel that there are certain issues here, such as the highest. Secretary of finance earlier, he had trouble discussing e.g. Weapons transport. It was not to be discussed. [[The president calls.]] This afternoon a request for a study report, just on the program below, was not to be discussed or given up in connection with the General's final study report. There's something else you can't talk about here. [[The president calls.]] I think it's bad messages from the highest. Government.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u37	You can only discuss within the speech period.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u38	Mr. President. I told you before, there were 19 meetings days left before the district election. That's not true, they're 23. But today's meeting is the 19th of the year. Each one of you sees that at the remaining time, we can't get through the situation as high as possible. The government has said it was going to contribute. These include big issues that we will take a long time to discuss, such as a financial plan, and the financial policy will be expected in the days following from a financial committee. We're fucked. When we talked about this last week, we even got here. Up here in the ponttte platoon president of the left green and joined us in our opposition concern and said that he had already discussed these matters at the highest level. Prime Minister. It was over a week ago and still nothing has happened. [[The president calls.]] So I'm afraid I will. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, head of Congress, left-green, has to lie down with us for the years.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u39	Mr. President. I have to come up here and say I'm disappointed. Now that I'm new to the council, this is my first term, and I have to admit that this fall, and especially after this year's match, I have been very disappointed in myself because these devices are highly embarrassed. We don't have a problem here, it's almost pointless to meet at a professional committee because it is, as has been brought on by other people. People, matters - they are naturally important in their own way, and I'm not going to belittle them, but they're still embarrassing. So it hardly takes to hold a meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u40	Electric energy transport system?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u41	It's been discussed, yes, but as today we were discussing the year-to-day bill, which is certainly a very important case and the termination of a law about an enterprise that is no longer there. It was kind of embarrassing. I don't care about the work around here, I don't like it, and I'm disappointed in them. Once you've made a comment to them, you've heard the answers that it's always been like this. [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. That does not mean that we do not have to change that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u42	President. I understand how it takes time to work well. It is a new government, and it may be understandable that things will not all come to us right away. There is, however, a Congress file, which is the Minister's plan for the issues to be submitted. That schedule is not up to date. Then it would have been most proper for a minister to let us know which cases will be delayed, when they will be submitted, or whether they will come above their heads. It's missing, and I encourage the Minister to inform us senators so we can do better. It is distressing if, at the last minute, we face these issues, 15 minutes before the end of the council, where we have no time to get thoroughly familiar with them or to have a serious discussion about them. That kind of work I hope to the extent that a new government isn't going to work. Some cases may need to be delayed in order to win them better. So, then, should we not simply make the time available to handle the many well - being matters of the council? Are they being discussed and using the professional new tactics proclaimed by the new government?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u43	A respectable president. I mentioned the innovation earlier. The reason I mentioned it is that at the last meeting of the budgetary committee, the industrial organization came and told us that the fourth foundation, which is supposed to be the economic standard on which our future economic growth is based, the innovation, is just foam. It is evident now that we do not carry out our work there. That's why I'm asking President to put pressure on the government to do something about it. Besides, I wanted to put only the temptation of a respectable president in order to make jokes at the expense of the senators in Pontu. I make a general comment that they are being thrown out jokes for speech lessons or something like that at the Senate expense after a good time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u44	Mr. President. I simply think it's a bad time for the council. It's not like it's one of my struggle issues to get bills from these three forward groups, so they go through, but I just know how the politics works. It's government launchers that pass through, not senator's returns. 95% Congress, I'd guess, fall asleep in a committee. That's why I feel that this is a fact, that we're putting all these senators on a program to fill the program, and then they go to committees and fall asleep there. I simply think it's a bad time for the council to be spent in this regard. We see that every day begins with the fact that the Ministers here, and especially the Ministers of the VG, have to defend political depravity and secrecy so that their main concern in politics seems to be that. The words of the former executive director VG may be fulfilled on what VG would have to do with settling in the government of independence.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u45	Mr. President. I was just going to briefly state that we even discuss finance policy because it appeared naturally in December. We have her, we could have been discussing her already. This is something that will take a long time to talk. It is also held in March, of course the first day of his life, and of his happiness. Yet, this is so that the financial program should be established. Why can't she come out now? She's in a hurry, is there anything to stop her from performing? Why are all these things that are self-mannered and seasonal, happening every year, so long? Why can't the government work be a little more structured, I ask?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u46	A respectable president. Indeed, it is possible to have a very good time over the failure of the government. But I can say with what. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, who said that it was not always good for governments to be effective. In itself, I'm not so worried about the loss of this government, I think I disagree with her in most of the works she's going to take over so that in the end I can agree with the senator that it's fine. It is serious, however, to expect to pile into the council during the last days of the events to be completed and settled. This means that the council will not have time to handle matters that should be taken care of. I think it's also clear that we're going into committee week two from now on, and we have no case to work that week. I think it would be nice for us to consider reevaluating the General Work Programme until spring, in view of the fact that the government is far behind.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u47	President. I just wanted to draw attention to the fact that when this important discussion is conducted, the members of the council are disfellowshipped. There is a shortage of matters from the stewards, and they are not listening. Yeah, this is where I see the biggest one. The minister of Þórdís Kol Kolbrún R. Gylfadóttir daughter in the side room, but that doesn't make any difference that they were sitting here many years ago and gone. They should be here discussing the lack of affairs at the council. Hopefully, they are working on their council somewhere because they have not yet entered the council. Another, Mr. President, which I must make comments to is a persistent noise from the side halls. I wish for the highest. The president does something about it. We who sit at the door don't have a chance to piss, including. to the highest. Minister. I'd like the president to handle this even if there's silence right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u48	The President agrees with these words. Senator. There is often a disturbance of gas in the side halls, but there is also a gap in the chamber itself. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u49	Mr. President. There has been much discussion about the urgency that will occur at the council in our time, and if any cases come from the government. I'd like to ask, and it would have been good if the Ministers had permitted... [[Hairsick in a side room.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u50	Mr President would like to ask a senator to cut... And ask for a sound in the side halls. The president asks why. A senator to continue to apologize for the disturbance.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u51	It would have been a great improvement if the Ministers had been sitting here to inform members who here bring up the issue of government inactivity to see if they were usually working on a legal case. If so, what is the situation inside the plot, a respectable president?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u52	Prime Minister is not in...
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u53	What is the situation there? How can we make sure that the legal process has been done professionally in Iceland, which is primarily necessary when it cannot be guaranteed here at this council in ours, when these bills finally come? [[The president calls.]] I suggest that the prime minister now sit down with the heads of other classes at the council, informing whether a matter will come, and then what matters will not come from the ones on the program. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u54	V.E.G. President. I agree with more members of Congress on the inactivity of the government, but as it turned out last week when we were discussing these matters, I felt the same idea that a combination of the government is part of this problem. As the last speaker mentioned, there is probably something in the government inside the plot. I'd like to ask the World Congress this morning, "Does no one worry about yesterday's news about possible payment from Arion Bank of 80 billion?" I think the silence is screaming about that matter and this news. We are talking about 80 billion, the value of one national hospital, no less.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u55	Mr. President. It is an international day of commendation, and I would like to begin by commending the government's opposition for granting the government financial support. I could use some. We may not have received much commendation in the discussion about the President's conference board, but I would like to be the director of the employment committee to make comments about this as easily as possible. paritaprevir Albertína Elíasdóttir's daughter, mentioned here, said that there was a small issue on the job committee. A job board has been very careful to deal with large and large issues that are on the program and will be on the program, preparing for the arrival of a fish farm. We've been preparing for a press conference on fishing costs and their reviews, taking in a number of parties. This is not a small matter. We're dealing with the transport systems of electricity and other languages, and we've used our time well to cover big and big issues. We must not speak down on our own committees and on the work being carried out in the committees. [[The president calls.]] We must have respect for ourselves and the work being done here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u56	A respectable president. I'd like it more if it was the best. The prime minister would be in here to hear my speech. But I'm just gonna ask a respectable president to get a message out of the way that, in any case, the person here doesn't think there's a big problem that the government will give a few cases, especially if they're well done. However, I would like to make it clear that, rather than having a major hurry and a rush at the end of the council, we should stress the completion of the council matters that have been presented, which are abundant, and we should be able to complete. But as was driven from the river before. paritaprevir Ágúlfi, Ágúst, the Ólafur of Ágústsson, is a tradition that they will receive much less priorities if they receive a course above their heads. Maybe it's an opportunity. Perhaps we should take advantage of this complimentary day to commend ourselves for taking advantage of the opportunity to bring the matter into question. But I completely refuse that at the end of the council someone rushes and rushes will be used as a reason not to run out of Congress, for the Council is the law in this country, not the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u57	A respectable president. Next week, half of us have the number of meetings we've had during spring miseries and very few cases of the government have made. 140 were the total number of them in the Government Constitution. I think it's time for real men to sit down and revise both. It would be nice to have a minister here before the council to explain this, and I agree with the members of Congress who say it would be nice to have them here to review their actual issues. It would be nice for the government to reexamine its Constitution, for it is clear that not all of these cases will appear here during the last days. Again and again, I think we need to revise the Council's work programme on the spring miscommunication. It is not long before the Council's long Easter permit, nor is it far from the county election, where the council will be sent home again. It is obvious that we are very limited in nature in order to care for our obligation to handle matters that may ultimately arise on the part of the government. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u58	Mr. President. This is where it came from. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir and encouraged the people on a international complimentary day. Perhaps there is reason to draw attention to the fact that unfounded commendation is subject to, no matter what. A senator, and I doubt that the senator is calling for us to have the government and the members of the board something like this today, on this international day. I saw a minister of professional roads and innovations in the councilroom earlier, and I was much more willing to use this opportunity and ask her if she was here, about a case in her Ministry, how were things going there? How's it going, e.g. to establish a government policy on travel, which the Government Accounted in 2015, in 2016, in 2017, and now 2018, this remains to be the case. Where is it, top dog? Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u59	Mr. President. This is a good debate because it allows us to do this now while it is time to revise the General Work Programme, so I caught the ball in this discussion when I was listening to the discussion as vice president of the council, sitting in the Presidency Committee responsible for the Work Programme, responsible for the Senate having the days needed to perform its legal task, handling professional legal procedures, administrative work, etc. So I went into the side room, and talked to four ministers. They are in different positions with their own cases, but they said that they could be obtained from the relevant details of a Senate book submitted, and a prime committee has taken a position on how she will set up the days of Congress. In view of this, it would be good to have them updated information about the situation from the council, when it would likely all be ready for the council, so we can start to evaluate how long we may need to work these matters. I'll wish for that on the Presidency Committee. I'd like that at the highest. President Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, that we may formally do so here and get it on schedule for our next session on the Presidency Committee. [[The president calls.]] Then we'll get information we'll give the council and continue this business professionally.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u60	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A president for taking such a good wish for silence in the side halls, which is really annoying when you're sitting up at the door. I was going to discuss the government with you. I understand, of course, that it takes the newly formed government time to sort out its strings and put out the big issues, but it's a considerable time since it was formed, over three months, and we're waiting for the big stuff. Then you wonder why she's holding hands. There's a lot of vacations ahead of you, it's Easter holiday, there's elections and so you ask, "When to file a case? Are they to be brought to a complete conclusion so that people do not have the time to discuss them properly at the Council? Perhaps the reasons are for the next election? Now that I'm up here in a chair, I'm going to be excited about a new transport plan. [[The president calls.]] It is not acceptable that it is not submitted and my long - term public defense standards are red conditions and road conditions.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u61	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnney Magnúsdóttir made it a subject of honor and that it would not be a good practice to speak down the work of the Generals and important tasks of committees. I agree with that. Although there were not many government issues here, we have had excellent discussions about many needs and fine matters in the committees I sit on, so I agree with it. I am moved to express my concern about what will happen to respect and careful management when the government's mercenaries are infested with the committees. What, then, about the respect of the Generals when matters are resolved, likely under intense pressure. Government, committees and council members? Has a what? A senator is not worried that it might then be a small kubba strike by our senators for an unscrupulous business?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u62	V.E.G. President. I've come here to express my special pleasure over what the government offers, and she's not going to do anything about it. On the other hand, I would point out that there are a number of national issues available here from members of Congress that would be good for us to have time to discuss. I'd like to mention one thing that's recently developed by the Central Party, and it's about removing the staff from an index number that measures the price of the loans. It's a big issue that needs a lot of coverage here and a lot of publicity on a committee, so I strongly encourage it to the highest level. The president and other fine members of Congress will set that matter on schedule. However, it's different if, and when the government gets a little winded up here, the government can't expect it to be, and it's not expected that the senators will be here like some Italian stamp pads, and then they'll take off one of the other cases through the council, and they'll just mention it from the top end of their hand. Government. So I say to the highest. The president, urging him to set up these fine senators matters and have here a long meeting for them so that we can have a good discussion about them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u63	V.E.G. President. I just come up here to create a little more calm. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I like to listen to what's happened. Councilmen, especially diplomats, who have made special efforts to increase their respect and trust in the council and to speak everything down. It's a bad case. It's a bad one. And there's some fun paradoxs in this, too, especially when it's loud. Martyrs who have to make the matter so long at the council before a decision can be made. After long treatment, you cannot even take a stand, but they insist that the government come in here with a case as soon as possible. [[Up front.]] Then there is no need for preparation, and there is nothing to consider. [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]] Then everything must be done immediately. [[For example, there is no paradox, my friend.]] There's a lot of paradox here. Let's just let it be the highest. A government's about to be careful and bring good bills, maybe it's not gonna take as long to take a stand as usual. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u64	Don't bring them back late...
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u65	Row in the hall. It was wish. A senator making peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u66	I don't know if I'm crazy about the atmosphere like I was. paritaprevir The armour of Níelsson the son of Nils. But I come up here to say that we need to show respect for the council and the work here. I wholeheartedly agree that there is no doubt about it at the last moment. I spent the last week discussing these matters in general. Then I said it wasn't by default that I listed a big hurry to the last record. I say it right here and now, the Ministers who are going to set matters straight have to do it. But we do not want to be willing here, as was mentioned in this discussion by a senator of the government stand, sharp. paritaprevir Helga Helgadóttir. Is it not better that the big, big things on the way in here are done well and that's how they show up? I think that's what we're all calling out for.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u67	Now it is as if the President has no more files on his file who would like to speak to the President's conference board. Does the fact that no one is sitting next to them without a president especially advertises others? This has become a lively discussion, with several members of the council, one 13 of whom, twice in their right to discuss the President's meeting board. On the day of commendation, the president wants to commend the evangelism of filling in with the General Assembly meeting, even if this is not the case. However, in many ways the President in the past agrees with the viewpoints presented here, that it is most unfortunate if matters arise and arise late. Experienced senators know what that means. On the other hand, a very similar discussion took place over the last winter, making it the same way that a government came to power in mid winter. Of course, this marks to some extent the situation that we now discuss. [[Up front.]] The president wants to inform us that he has been in touch with the prime minister and the government on these matters and has written a letter on behalf of the government during the past week, which called attention to certain aspects of the relationship between the European Commission and the better - to - do administration authority. It is in preparation to improve communication protocols so that channels will be shorter on both the council and the European Commission when it is time to estimate the Senate with some knowledge of what is coming from the government and vice versa. At the General Assembly, the government always sent a list of e.g. the request for a specific discussion, and there are other factors. The president would also like to inform us that he will arrange for the committees to meet with them on Tuesday afternoon to review their situation situation with them. Of course, it is true that cases are also important that come from committees and not gather there and then be added to what lies ahead. Finally, I agree with a view that it is desirable that it should come from the highest level as soon as possible. The government revised the Constitution, for it is obvious that it will change. I believe that there has been a complete basis for what has been discussed for about an hour, but I would like to quickly understand that ministers should not be sitting here under discussion. This was not a debate over the activities of the council. This was a discussion about the President's conference board. Before her, it was an unprepared question period in which ministers were answering, including the highest level. Prime Minister. The senators would have been in the palm of the hands of a direct inquiry to the highest level. While in the hall, the prime minister gave an answer to this matter. If that is so, will it not be more said and taken up for another matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u68	A respectable president. All I have to do is explain the change that has happened to this report request since more than a month ago. The main change is that the report request is directed to the highest level. Prime Minister who should call for information from all relevant organisations in order to advise in the Public Research Reports, to harmonise the process and presentation of the information of the council and the nation for information. The change is good, however, that the request includes all of the observations of the study report, not just to those who are directed toward financial ministers and social ministers, but, of course, the original purpose of the report request often comes from the Ministry to comment if the question is not clear that the question is just focused on their field. This is generally a problem, e.g. in queries to the minister. If there is a question for any minister, a special copy must be sent to each minister instead of being able to send just one to everyone.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u69	A respectable president. I agreed to include in this report whenever possible. I was approached by a transferer of Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson because I am a spokesman for our adherence to the approved and reports made. I wasn't in the country when that report request was requested, and I was doing business with the Council of the North, in Stockholm, but I must say, at the highest. Mr President, I was quite surprised to see my name on this report request here and now because I don't have--it's fine. A messenger explained the changes, for he has not done so in any way to me, but he is still a member of the reporting request. I listened to what I heard. A senator talks about consultations, and I have not received any consultations about the changes that have been made here. But let it be, I just wanted to make a comment about the fact that the lyrics were not being changed without consultation with importers, at least I don't know about anyone else. However, the matter has become the best of matters, and I have no comment to the fact that my name is on this request. [[The president calls.]] I wish, though, that we will agree with one another and that those who call for consultation will also show that they do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u70	A respectable president. I think it was good for a man to take the time to review his request for a report that was on the program some time ago. All right, now it's out in a different picture. However, I'm going to use this opportunity to make a general comment about reports such as the one underneath. I will not resist the request. I'm going to find that after the council works for a report published in nine volumes, I'm going to be directly directed to the European Commission to catch up from this report all the indications as requested. Congress is receiving the report. The Parliament knows the indications in the report, but in this case the Commission commits to classify all of the indications and explain what has been done with them. This is hardly sufficient to mark a request, but it is expected to be as good as possible. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u71	A respectable president. I'll live up to it. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otttar's son Proppér, I did not specifically inform him, since this was a review procedure for all groups who made a comment on the report in that case. I thought the report was in general for all categories, so I didn't cut out especially of importers, as the content of the report remains unchanged. It was only changed to the minister's request. I'm sorry I didn't alert you. Were you not sure that you were in that discussion? It's just a mistake on my part to have expected that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u72	Mr. President. I can't help but come up here to respond to the highest words. The secretary of finance, who is amazed that the European Commission is now going to consider its indications directly in the General Commission report and asks: Why is research being initiated, and no small study is being conducted, as it were, the complete report of the Nine Year's Research Committee, if we are not going to examine the tips? What is the point if the Commission does not examine the indications and see if they have responded to the indications as well as the Council itself? Well, then we can totally not go to any tests like this, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u73	A respectable president. I also have to say that I have to say that it's amazing that I'm not as good as saying anything. Secretary of finance. I can't believe that the management board didn't make any summary of the tips that were directed to her in a report by the NTSB. What, then, was the job done if the management board hasn't even made it so far as to list the indications that were directed to it, what to do there, or how to follow them? I can't imagine this request for this part involving any additional work for the administration. She must have taken up the tips that were directed to her a long time ago. I certainly hope that there was also something there to do about them. I think it's a very normal request and a good report request, and I'm sure it's followed by the council. Here was the number of comments and tips set for what has been done.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u74	A respectable president. Only in the light of the highest. The financial and economic minister mentioned here, the general comment, would be as if it were merely taking some of the reports that have already been submitted. But it's not like that. The request is not about taking out the existing reports but also about how the indications in section 3 have been responded and what indications have not yet been followed, how to confirm that they have been followed, who has been appointed as responsibilities, and how a minister intends to follow up indications where there is not yet a responsible caregiver. This is what the report request is about, not the addition of some extract from this nine - volume job published at the time. I just want to say that this request isn't about it. It's about following the job. I would think it was the General Assembly that should be suggested to the prime minister to inform the council and the general public on the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u75	A respectable president. I think we just don't see it that way. First of all, people come up here saying it was a scandal that the European Commission did not classify these indications and make a report of them. The situation was agreed on by the General Assembly on September 28, 2010, to keep this check. It was approved here less than eight years ago. Second, I have to make a general comment on the request that I don't think it's appropriate for anyone to submit a report request in which the Commission is assigned to report reports made by the General and ask the Commission: What are the tips in the report? It says in this request that the report will sum up the indicators for the management board which will be included in the reports and will include: What these indications are about. This is one of the ways to go to a report request like this. Another could be said: In this nine - volume report, people were asked to change these legislation or take action out of this comment. What has been done in this regard? [[The president calls.]] So much as a file request, I understand that the European Commission is committed to sorting out and telling us what the tips are -- I feel like people are working here pretty low on the executives.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u76	Mr. President. The board of directors, set up and published a report on the collapse of the bank, played a surveillance role for the Executive Director. There were suggestions on what to do because things went wrong. We do not know what the Commission has actually done in the indications that have been identified and referred to by the Ministry through this report, the execution of the Commission, where it is said we should do this better or do certain things. We do not fully know what has happened, and this is only part of the legal surveillance role of the Parliament to monitor the European Commission by directing to the secretary's request for a summary report on these factors for indications from this expensive, important study report on what has been done. Whether the council specifically asked if we had done this and the other, and picked it out ourselves from the report, okay, it's true of the secretary of finance that the council could have done just that, but now we're asking the Ministry to sum up how the ministry's experience with these indications has been, what advice the Ministry has taken up, and decide to do so. [[The president calls.]] Is this in harmony with what the report says? This is a very normal monitoring role, and it's a good thing we're going to accept the request.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u77	Mr. President. In itself, the material comments I made when this request was used to be are the same as the form. I thought that it would be better for the Allied Parliament to cover this request, that we agreed that we were going through the General Commission report and in what way the Commission had followed and carried out the indications presented in that report. I think it's a much better blow and a lot more respect. It is a matter of the independence of the council rather than of assigning some kind of surveillance to the Commission. I am so surprised that there are members of Pirata who are asking to commit the European Commission to do so. [[The president calls.]] I'm not gonna stand in the way of this report request, but I'm just trying to remind you that the bar isn't good.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u78	Mr. President. I have to admit, I'm pretty surprised it's the highest. Economic and economic ministers arrive to state that they find it strange for the Council to hide the European Commission in action. This request is to assign the Commission to carry out certain activities in their behalf, and it is certainly not too late. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason that it may be right for the council to take care of the situation in later stages and perform further research. I agree with it, and I look forward to hearing and seeing a suggestion from the mouth. A senator's content, as he often offers very practical suggestions that would be helpful. It's amazing that when the council assigns to the Commission something to do, it's the highest light. Ministers somehow strangely of it. That's weird.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u79	A respectable president. In itself, I rejoice that here is a great deal of emphasis on the separation of the legislature and the Commission. It's fresh from that direction as far as I can see, and I'm happy with that development. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] However, I feel a little bit, I hope I'm not rude, as if the subject of the petition didn't come quite clear enough to be true. Councilmen and the highest. A minister recognized his role in this. It asks what the indications are, how they have been treated, and what indications have not yet been answered. Is there any danger that the company does not tell us the truth about these questions? Is there any danger of being premeditated because it's premeditated, giving us wrong numbers, or not telling us the right thing? Where else from the Council, where the indications are directed, should we get these data? This is the council doing its own surveillance job. This is what it looks like. There's no need for a Senate committee to do that. All the government has to do is inform the council, e.g. in a report, e.g. according to this request. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u80	A respectable president. I feel that I am experiencing some of the repeated material when I listen to these discussions. The discussion may remind me of the days when independents flocked to comment on the matter. paritaprevir Sunna's battle on a television show, where she spoke of a logical suspicion and all of them referred to the wording itself. They did not speak of the spirit of what she was saying, the substance of what she said, but they focused on speaking about the expression itself and attacking it. I think it's a bit of a way out of the way in a case. Secretary of finance when he speaks of it directly to the Commission that it provides information on the indication. Of course, it is not what is being said here but the fact that the Commission, the legislature, provides a report on what has been done to address the nine tie of the report of the General Assembly. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u81	Mr. President. I really thank you for an interesting discussion about this request. I've been at the council for ten years, and those who've been here for a few years know very well that there's been very much work on the tip of the research committee, so there's no need for trouble. Senators questioning that. This is simply a request, and because this section is entitled on the vote, I intend to inform you that I intend to support this request directed to me as a representative of the Commission. But I'm personally the opinion, and it's just a discussion I think we should have in another field, that, of course, members of the Parliament can take the initiative, decide to initiate reports, take a particular initiative, completely independent of the executives. I think it would be interesting for the Senate Presidency Committee and the Council council members to discuss how we can apply the Council members much more than we can say to provide independent reports, such as is in every council around us, and to turn to the dynamic of the General Assembly I've spoken much of, but I just want to say that I don't think that there's much more reason to discuss this request. In fact, I thought that this discussion was over at the scene of the council groups, and I suggest that we refrain from discussing the matter anymore, but we just agree on the request. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] [[That's gonna happen in the end.]] Yeah, eventually. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u82	Mr. President. Now I'm actually going to talk about the President's conference board. I was thinking a lot earlier. I realize it's not my job to tell a president what to do or to guide him, but I'm going to make the right use of what I want to say in a speech chair. I comment that I often feel that the President is a habitual, and I often feel that his words are meaningful when he speaks of us filling in the Generals program - they say it in a humorous manner, but it contains a certain message. In order to shed light on the activities of the council, the chairman of the Council is a regular part of the program. Second, it is not the job of Mr. President to be some kind of information worker for the government and explain why they are not there. It so happens that from my point of view, it was the highest. Prime Minister outside for conversation with a senator. It may well be that she had more important things to do in that room than in the Senate hall, but I think Mr. President should consider this. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u83	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to change the patent law, No. 17/1191 with subsequent changes. The bill is two-fold, first of all, it includes the implementation of the EU Re-Election Regulation on the proof of additional product protection as well as the inclusion of regulations in the EU Regulation on the rights of the private Marketing Authorisation Holder to apply for the extension of additional PSURs for medicinal products for children. Other than that, the bill consists of harmonisation and further adaptation of the patental legislation to the implementation and implementation of the European private secret office. In the course of evolution and the research of drugs, the real or at least the personal time may be much shorter than other inventions. This is because it is always necessary to perform extensive drug production and marketing experiments. It is not uncommon for half of the protective time of a patent 20 years to pass before marketing of the product. The Council and Council No. 1768/92 authorized an extended protection period of up to five years with an additional certificate's version. The European Union has now issued a new Regulation on proof of additional protection for medicinal products, No. 469/2009, who is introduced by bill. Also included here are regulations 36. g. Regulation No. 1901/2006, but the requirement allowed to extend up to six months of additional proof of monotherapy for children. As the introduction of these types for administrative reasons has been delayed, it can be found in the decision of the joint EEA no. 92/2017 some material adjustment regulations. They need to be consulted in context of this bill as they provide specific guidelines for the timing of applications for extended protection. It is important to introduce the extension of the protection of the patent medicinal products for children to the end of the goal of promoting pro-drug manufacturers to promote drug development and research. For other changes made by the bill they include the following factors in the patent process: Changes are made to explain the treatment of patents, and a new reference is that the applicant can request the grant of a patent in English, although the requirements are always translated into English. There is also a specific service fee for the treatment of protests against patents, but so far it has not been paid for such treatment. Furthermore, in the bill there is a set of regulations that confirm that only the limitations of the patents can lead to a limitation of its protection and that restrictions must no longer be made to the absence of the patents. In addition it is suggested that the limitations of the patent authorisations have a retrospective effect from the beginning of the protection period rather than have a prospective effect from reported limitation reports, but this procedure has been considered to create a discrepancy between the treatments for European patents and national patents. A new arrangement allows the rights to inform the rights that fees have been paid but so that the patent office will not be held accountable if fees are not paid and rights fail. This law complies with national legislation on the same topic. The bill calls for a change in the registration of the private secret office, where new taxpayers will be added but will not affect the survival of a trust fund, and the patent agency will be paid for services rendered. Prior to approval of this bill, a controlled standard of action must be removed according to regulations 103. g. The EEA Convention is to be proposed for that purpose will be submitted to the General Assembly by the Minister of Foreign Affairs. I don't think it's been done yet. V.E.G. President. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. Promissary committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u84	A respectable president. I recommend here for bill to correct climate change laws, No. 70/2012, with subsequent changes. These are EEA rules. As a result, on December 31, 2017, the budget of the business system for flying was legally established in the original form of January 1, 2018. Based on the current legal requirements, the release clearance warrants, according to Article 20. February 28th of February each year shall be followed by the original level of air management within the business system, but according to Commission rules of 2017/2392, it should be based on the continued tightness of the business sector as it was in 20136/2016. Baseline on change in climate law No. 70/2012, which was adopted at the 146th legislature as law No. 45/2017, included the change in preliminary regulations V to the legislation on the European Commission's work programme for flying restrictions. This change was due to the development of the European Commission's proposal for a change in Directive 2003/87/EC to extend the current narrow range of air functions within the EU's emission-relevant business system and to prepare the implementation of international market-related measures from 2021. The directive states that all flight drivers require a report on carbon dioxide emissions according to Article 21. and deliverable clearance, according to Article 17. have been completed from January 1 to December 31, 1923, for all emissions: First, from flight to airports located in countries outside the European Economic Area. Second, from flight to and from airports located in so - called outer regions. The European Union has nine areas that are far away from continental Europe but are still part of the Union. Here are five French districts across the ocean: Martinique, Guvdeluupe, French Guinea, Réunion, and Mayotte; one French community: St. Martin Islands; two Portuguese - self - control areas: Madeira and the Azores; one Spanish Austonomous Environment: Canary Islands. Third, from flight to airports in countries and regions of the European Economic Areas, but not from the European Economic Areas, such as Greenland, the Faeroe Islands, Svalbarda, Aruba Island, Jersey Island, Bermuda Islands, and Cayman Islands. Furthermore, the protocol says no action should be taken according to XIII. the section of the law against pilots in terms of all emissions from flight to and from above. The exception of flight drivers who are not commercially involved in flying and flying a total emissions per year of less than 1,000 tons will be extended to 31 December 2030 in accordance with the figure 9 to 1st. Regulation (EU) 2017/2392. It is then proposed that the EEA should be obliged to reassign emissions to fliers in 2018/2020 in accordance with the tightness of the value of the business system. In the provision of a provisional donation, which will continue to provide a narrow range of values for the business system 2018-2023, the Court's assurance on emissions in Flight 2018/2020 will be reduced. The EEA will be authorized to postpone emissions, as it was in 2017, and it will be absolutely certain of the duties of flight drivers on the extent of the reporting and the release rights due to flying emissions in 2018 2020. To this end, I suggest that the case go directly to the 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u85	A respectable president. I support the essential bill involved in boys'circumcision. It should not be allowed to harm a child for life span because of some phenomenon that has nothing to do with medical matters. I have been wondering why we allow children to be attacked and mutilated for life in the name of religion. I don't think it comes to faith in any way to walk to a seven-day old child and perform this disgusting thing, which I call, even without anaesthesia. The descriptions of how this is done are hazy. I've listened and watched how it's being done. I've had a lot of tests in my life. No one goes, not any man believes I, in surgery unless he's seriously ill. No one is joking, no one is unnecessary. I suddenly began to wonder how far you can remember back in time. What's the first memory? Yes, my first memory has to do with pain. My first memory is that I was going to a hospital. There was a mask on me, this was the time when children were put to sleep with ether, or I don't know what materials were poured on. And I was put to sleep. I guess I've been around three years old. I always remember the panic when the mask came over me, and I fought behind my head. But the point of this anaesthesia was that my glands had to be removed. I had been very sick for a long time. This was an operation to cure my illness. And it worked. Then I began to think that the next thing I would be happy about. The next memory was in many ways pleasant, it was when I was playing with my best friend, and he took a concrete iron and nailed it to my head. Blood all over the place. I was terrified. It's the next memory. Pain. And the pain seems to bite into the children's soul. I've got an amazing number of e-mails on these subjects and everyone positive. People are supporting the approval of the bill. I say for my part after reading these e-mails, and from my experience, they're not supposed to, not in any case, attack a seven-day-old child, a child who's been through birth a week before. I tell a child because it doesn't matter if it's a girl or a boy. I am told that since boys are circumcised in Judaism, Judaism will have been ruled out in the absence of circumcision. Where, then, are we? A thousand years before Kristur or 2018? We haven't evolved, have we? I say, it must be necessary when we are in this century, and we have all this knowledge about what needs to be done and what not, what action is necessary and what is not, that we stumble and say, "This place, no, no, no, no, no, no. " Let's just say: No, this is out of the question. The Children's Club, the Human Rights Convention, all says, "We're stopping these things." It's supposed to be so easy that it's really incomprehensible how much attention this issue has caught. It cannot be justified in any way. Not a soul. Those who try to do so in some strange way with a reference to religion. In that case, you begin to think about religion. Christianity says that God created man in his image. So, then, what right do we have to change that picture? What right do we have to say, there's a seven-day-old child, it's not perfect, we're going to turn it into our image. But it was perfect in the form of the God who should have created it in his image. If we are going to play a god, we are opposed to ourselves. It is said that in some cases, this kind of operation will be required, but in 99.9% of cases it doesn't have to, I would count. To perform this operation without anaesthesia and the methods I have read about tell me that we have to stop this and make sure that there are always the children who enjoy the doubt. Icelandic nurses and midwives have given support to the bill. Doctors have given support. Even so, I can't imagine that in any way it is a doctor's task to perform an unnecessary operation that causes suffering and can cause irreparable problems in the child. According to the United Nations Children's Covenant and the Convention of Human Rights, this is impossible. There's no way to defend this. During the past few weeks, all I've been doing is positive about this bill, people want to stop boys'circumcision. People who have been involved have e - mailed me. They're asking for this to stop. An e - mail has been sent to those terrified of the thought that they will soon have a baby and have to resort to violence seven days after birth. Regarding religious freedom, I say: I am at peace with religious freedom. Totally satisfied that people will believe whatever they want as long as that religion does not hurt anyone. We have to realize that it's not long since we Icelanders were in trouble, and it's not long since we Icelanders had magical effects. Fortunately, we've evolved ever since. From my point of view, we are taking one step in this trend. We're saying, "We're gonna stop children from being badly damaged. " That's why I say that the freedom and rights of the children are number one, two and three. When a child grows up, he has the right to take such action if he wants to. There is no question that this will always be and should always be the right of the child, never the parents. The right parent should be to help only the child. I have faced the issue of being righteous about a month old child, very sick, and unable to do anything. Because of illness. If I had ever thought of performing such an operation on my boys - I now have only six boys, six boys, five alive, and resorting to violence like this, whether in the name of religion or something else - it would never have been possible. Therefore, I say, taking a healthy child with nothing to do with and using that violence is completely incomprehensible. Finally, I will read from an article in the reactor, with the permission of a president: ▪ Of all the factors mentioned above, it can be concluded that the prohibition against child freedom does not conflict with parental freedom of worship. Without considering the likely conclusions of the European Court of Human Rights or other Courts regarding the violation of the fundamental rights of the unspoken child, i.e. Its human rights must be considered fairly certain that the child's right to physical immunity, as well as the child's right not to accept the doctrines of his parents'religion against his own protests, would be counted for the rights and freedom of others, in the sense of 2 mg. Count 9. European Convention on Human Rights, as well as the standard of law and international agreements. Therefore, I say, and I mean it and speak from experience because it's a terrible project: I ask the Senate to accept this prohibition, and I ask people to support us in showing that humanity and justice to one week old children that we give them all their rights to be seen to be never done anything on the children that harms them, they have every right. When they grow up, they have this choice.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u86	Mr. President. We are discussing matters that have brought great attention both at home and abroad, in various places, in the media, in terms of a change in criminal law that will be punished by boys on the land, and if it is performed, people will be imprisoned for up to six years. I want to draw attention to it. Shilja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir's daughter is not in the room. I find that interesting in view of this important discussion that has been given attention to many people. I've got some questions for you. A senator in a talk later and would have chosen to be in the hall. I want to draw attention to it. Hv. A senator is not in the hall. I thought you were. A senator should be here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u87	A respectable president. I think it's right to ask for the highest order. The president will arrange for the transfer of this matter to the hall so that the discussion can continue and the senator can answer its specific questions. I think it's normal to give them at least to members of Congress who have questions. The candidate may wait with his talks or postpone the discussion until the senator is in the room, for it is important to be able to have this conversation with the official.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u88	The president wants to inform members of the hearing that these requests have been made to the traveller. It was done earlier. Is that a request made by the president?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u89	Of course.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u90	I will. Is it a wish that we wait with the senator's speech temporarily until that wish is passed? [[Up front.]] It should be done. The president also wants to inform us while we wait that it is customary for a minister to represent him in the hall to have a word with members of the council on the subject of objective and natural approach so that there can be an informed discussion at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u91	Mr. President. We're here on the bill on the ban on boys'circumcision. According to the bill, if it's legal, it will be punishable and incarcerated up to six years in Iceland. The bill has received considerable attention and is condemned from many parts of the world. I'm not following this bill. However, I would like to state that I am not a special spokesman for circumcision. On the other hand, I object to a judicial hearing. I'll take a closer look at it from here on out. Besides, I have a few questions about the case. A senator and a merchant, Dögg Dggar Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, and I present them as fast as I present my case here. The bill discusses some of the details of women's circumcision and covers more than a quarter of the reporting on women's circumcision. The charge of women or girls is condemned by the majority of mankind and has nothing to do with this debate, either ideological or medical. I'm surprised that women are being discussed in this context, and I believe that this is a misdirection. The report also refers to the United Nations Children's Covenant, claiming that the circumcision of boys violates the covenant. This is where it goes. A senator in his interpretation of the children's covenant to my judgment. It is clear that if a child's tradition of religion has been practiced for thousands of years by millions of people and the world's largest religions, the United Nations would never have received a walk in the United Nations. However, it is possible to wonder whether the prohibition against international objectives of large numbers of boys is against which we are in the UN's developing objectives and that, says the President: ▪ We commit ourselves to foster a paradox, tolerance, mutual respect, and morality, which are based on awareness of global civility and share responsibility. We accept the natural and cultural diversity of the world and see that all cultures can contribute to and are each essential to developing sustainable development. The Bishop of Iceland and the National Church agree with the fact that the bill is opposed. Says Bishop even. in his review of the bill that the nations respect the customs and customs of other religious and biological organizations. Hv. In his letter of transit, a senator says that she received a number of letters from Israelite Jews supporting the bill, and in Israel, there is a growing movement against maiming young boys in the name of religion. Here's what I'd like to say: First of all, the wording is a problem. No, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. According to one Icelandic dictionary, the word ▪ reading means that a person's heart is badly damaged or broken. I think that everyone can agree that circumcision is not a major offense, let alone a fracture. Using those expressions that have nothing to do with what is going on here, I don't think it's a good way to work. I don't think it would be logical to refer to letters as a matter of course. A senator has received from Israel. The General Assembly is the National Assembly of the Icelanders. We are not in Israel's Cnesset Assembly. We do not have legal authority in Israel. The one standing here worked in Israel before taking up residence at the General Assembly. I never heard of an ever - increasing movement against boys'circumcision, but now I have many fine Israelite friends. I even asked. former minister in Israel, whom I personally know about his opinion of the matter. He did not recognize the above movement. However, he wanted to communicate that it was very easy to view this bill as prejudice toward the Jews. If it were approved, this could affect the relationship between Iceland and Israel. The report also discusses the risk of infection as a result of surgery and is considered to be high, particularly during home surgery. To discuss Israel again, there are Jews, i.e. Children, circumcised shortly after birth, and the rest of the household. The proportion of infections in Israel is very low, or 0.2-0.6%. I don't believe that the claim to a high risk of infection is valid, as the statement in this report is not supported by any evidence. There is no evidence that a boy's surgery was carried on at home in Iceland. Hv. In his speech, a senator said that studies that have shown that the protection against sexually transmitted diseases and HIV transmission is highly critical and is based on a weak basis. What's wrong is what's wrong. Senator. On the contrary, the battle against AIDS in Africa has been very important and has been shown to reduce the risk of AIDS transmission by 60%. In 2011 the United Nations set up a five - year program to encourage circumcision among men in 14 African countries as part of an important prevention in the battle against AIDS. For this initiative, the World Health Organization, the United Nations special ambassador for the fight against AIDS, Billur's organization, and Melinda Gates, and the World Bank. These institutions would not have encouraged efforts to fight AIDS if the benefits were based on a weak foundation. The Danish Institute of Health is banned from male circumcision. The Agency believes that if the procedure is performed correctly, there is no increased risk of infection due to surgery. This was shown in a discussion of the subject of a dance radio in January. The American Children's Association is accompanied by a boy's circumcision, saying that the benefits outweigh complications and recommend anaesthesia during the procedure. The U.S. medical organization feels the same way. In 2014, Mayo Clinic, U.S.A., reported that the benefits of male circumcision far outweigh the complications. Mayo Clinic is one of the world's most famous medical institutions. Mr. President. Here I have identified important international institutions, doctors' organization, Danish Health Organization, and a well - known U.S. National Health Organization that recommend male circumcision. Hv. A senator and a messenger are included, for we welcome refugees, and that is where we agree. Hv. A senator spoke in a 2013 talk about refugees, with the permission of a president: ▪ We are required to act with altruism and reasonableness, helping people who need to flee from their homeland because of disaster. I'll take my mind off this. The majority of hostilities that have come here are from war - torn areas of the Middle East, where Islamist population is predominant. By the time they reach Iceland, they continue to practice their religion and would have associated it with it, with freedom of worship in Iceland. The circumcision of boys is part of the tradition of Islam. So I ask why. A senator believes that the ban on male circumcision can have on the arrival of refugees to the Islamic country. Counts 'em out. A senator that on the ban is fair to the rich religious tradition of Islam, Judaism, and part of Christianity? Is it fair to the refugees who come here and are Islamics that when they have a boy, the family needs to travel abroad to get the baby circumcised, if the bill is approved? Like what? A senator knows that these families do not have much to do with their hands. The Múhameð Muhadd was circumcised. Muhammadists are known for their harsh response to the view that their faith is meant for them. It is known to be the powerful influence the drawings that appeared in the Jewish e - mail by the Múhameð Muhamd had on a Danish community and dancing interests around the world. If the bill were the law, the situation might arise that the Muslims in Iceland were faced with a sentence of up to six years in prison. Has a what? A senator is not concerned that a Muslim society around the world could resist Iceland and be the law of the bill? Has a what? One member of the United Nations does not worry that in the world agencies that care for refugees, such as the United Nations International Refugee Organization for Refugees, the ban on male circumcision as prejudiced against Islam and the threat of refugees to the land? Hv. In the recent press interview, a senator said that the response of the international community to the case had surprised her. That's exactly why, Mr. President, I believe the bill is over-thinking. Hv. A senator could know that the bill would be condemned in many parts of the world because it involves the religious tradition of millions of people around the world, the ritual that has been at the people for thousands of years, and no International Health Organization has recommended banning. The bill is performing a tradition that is a religious, cultural, and historical tradition among millions of people for breaking and imprisonment up to six years. In this context, I would like to mention another aspect of the case, which I consider as much evidence that the bill will not be accepted. Iceland is a small country and has had to fight for its interests in foreign fields, and even war - free people have to go to war. Mr. President. I believe that if the bill becomes a law, it can easily harm Iceland's interests in foreign lands. Based on the reactions that have already occurred from abroad, it can be assumed that Iceland could experience a series of prejudices that could affect foreign trade, foreign tourist arrivals, and the country's imaginations. In 2012 a court of law sentenced boys to illegal action in Germany. The matter caused much controversy in Germany, stirred a bitter response from abroad, and was accused of prejudice against Jews by the German government. To calm down, the German Parliament passed a law that authorized male circumcision. Angela Merkel, the great politicalwoman and Chancellor of Germany, stated on this occasion that if Germany had made the first state of the world to ban circumcision, the country would have become a laughingstock internationally. Here, a well - experienced politicalwoman speaks of respect throughout the world. So I want to ask you why. A senator whether she is concerned that the bill could damage Iceland's image to the law. Iceland played an important role in the establishment of the kingdom of Israel in 1948. The relationship between the countries was long high, but in recent years, in particular because of Israel's occupation of the Palestinians we condemned has declined substantially. Here, though, I assure you, the Israelites have great respect for Iceland and regard us as a friendly nation. The Jews are powerful in many parts of the world, but they do not carry them into public squares. If there is a thousands of years of baseline Judaism, where there is an irreverent connection with God and a covenant spoken of in the Old Testament and torah, Jewish sacred writings, we are at risk that we would not become a friending nation in the sight of Jews and important commercial interests at various risk. Religion is a major influence on international relations. Most of them are in memory of the chaos that was created here in the land when Reykjavíkurburg agreed to a ban on Israel. Great investments in the heart of Reykjavík were at stake. Councilmen ran away from their own approval when they realized how powerful Jews are in business. Not only is the matter Islam and Judaism but also the Christian religion, since Catholic leaders have joined in the group that has protested the bill. Let us not forget that Kristur was circumcised, as did the postuli Páll. Mr. President. The media, including the media, has been identified. in an interview with Þráinn Þynin Rósmundsson that some years ago, a child's surgery was committed to the Land Hospital. Thus, this country does not seem to have a circumcision procedure. So I would like to ask, "Why do you ban and punish something that doesn't happen in Iceland, but it's customary among millions of people around the world? " Isn't that bill unnecessary? Isn't the practice of circumcision challenging communities? What's the point? To be the first state in order to ban circumcision and to pay the penalty as long as six years in prison? The religious traditions of millions of people around the world are being weighed down. This can have consequences. It is very easy to conclude that in this bill there is prejudice, that speaking down religion is a matter of pure and direct appeal to religious tradition, which is a part of following God's will and essential in the religious and social context of the religions mentioned here. In my opinion, the international community views this as a legal bill that involves prejudice. That is logical, including. that there is a legal ban on what is not customary in Iceland, but it is a rich religious tradition among millions of people, as I have said before. Even though it is. A senator says that Jews may not be welcome here. If the bill is approved, then it can be said that the World Council, the oldest National Assembly, has decided to speak down, ban, and criminalize one of the great rituals of the world. I believe that the reaction from abroad will be larger and greater than we realize. The bill has already reached attention beyond the cliffs. That attention, however, has been negative. Iceland is a small country in the world. We do not need the world's negative attention. The first may be hidden at times.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u92	A respectable president. First of all, I want to say that I'm sorry. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's farms prefer Iceland's business interests and potential tourist flows beyond the child's human rights. That's very serious to me. In all of the evidence, and in my speech given here two weeks ago, it was concluded that the case is based on the United Nations Children's Controversy, which introduced Iceland in 2013, by taking action on children who have nothing to say, painful actions, that can have disastrous consequences. Happily, not all humans who have been circumcised for this day are tormented. Regarding the senator's claim that there are no such actions on boys, that's not true. I have a letter from the surgeon general where I had to get some new numbers on how common surgery is. There's more of them than what. A senator claims to be here. The reason I'm putting this case to work, and by eight members of four categories, it's not because it's become such a great problem in Iceland that it has to be dealt with. On the contrary. It is based on the same argument as the prohibition against men and women's circumcision when offered in 2005, i.e. to prevent this from being done with minor children who cannot protect themselves. I can reason on the children's contracts and other issues. I'd also like to say that if a boy's circumcision is banned, the bill won't violate on his parents'freedom of worship. I want to meet some refugees here. [[The president calls.]] I don't think this has a negative effect on it. People will still be welcome here. In my mind, this case has received a very positive attention all over the world.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u93	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. I'd like to now say that I feel like she's turned out of my words here. [[Up front.]] I didn't say I'd prefer business interests over the interests of children, I didn't say that. That's wrong. I told them there was one of the risk factors that could lead to the country that this bill would be approved, if Iceland were to be the first state in the world to ban boys'circumcision. For the children's covenant, I've never seen this against him. I want to justify what I said here that I am confident that if this were against the United Nations Children's Convention, he would never have been approved at the United Nations, it's just that simple. I think it's right to do what's right. I'd also like to point it out, and I said it here in my speech, that I'm no special spokesman for the matter, but I don't think it proper to forbid it in this way to punish him so as to protect him from prison up to six years. I simply believe that this can have serious consequences for us as a nation. There I quoted, among other things, a prominent European political leader, Angela Merkel, who said, as I said earlier, that it could have serious consequences for Germany that would have become the first state to agree with this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u94	V.E.G. President. I would like to read a piece of a letter I received yesterday from an Icelandic man who was circumcised when he was a boy in America. He says, with President's permission: I'm not interested in throwing me into the piece of dirt that talks about this and you've been exposed to it. I feel that people in general are a bit out in the field, and the real toleraves ignore with evidence of religion, culture, etc. I'm going to add: (b) What is the meaning of the Greek word translated "successary "? (b) What is the meaning of the word" good news "? Parents are to be forbidden to make such a decision. I got it. I got it. Councilmen to hear the victims of circumcision ask the people they have been doing to see if they are pleased with them. I'm not so sure. A senator would receive honest answers from his friends outside Israel, whom he mentioned in his talk earlier, if he would ask further questions about their life and other matters, how this would have affected them. It's a very shy thing in men. Men usually do not complain about such things, they are not used to it, it is, and they become shy. I got it. I got it. A senator to look for further information on both the common cases of domestic surgery in Iceland, talking with people they have been doing, reading the Children's report, where the senator's claims earlier, on intervention and vandalism, are deteriorating, including: There are HIV and other things. I encourage the senator to examine that evidence. I also encourage the senator to study and to read well the will of the spokesmen and the officials of the children of the north, who encourage all Norwegian countries to ban circumcision on the basis of human rights and on the grounds of being violated by the United Nations Children's Convention.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u95	Mr. President. I certainly do not want to belittle those who have had contact with them. A senator, telling her about the challenges they have had to deal with after being circumcised, I certainly don't want to belittle them; I have compassion for them. But I just want to refer to the facts. Hv. A senator is hammering at the Children's Passage. However, we can look at reputable health institutions, the World Health Organization, the known health institutions in the United States, the American Children's Association, and all these institutions consider the benefits of surgery to outweigh the complications. So I think that's part of the discussion. Hv. A senator seemed to suggest that I had not studied these matters sufficiently. It's just wrong and it's just pimps. I've done a lot of research. That's why I'm here to express myself on this matter because I think it might have a bad effect for Iceland as a nation to agree on the ban in this way. Besides, I don't see anything wrong with the surgeon general setting rules for this operation, anaesthesia and anything like that and not being carried out in Iceland's homes, etc. But banning this and judging to the age of six, I don't think it's the right method in this case, I just have to say it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u96	V.E.G. President. I'm just a little conservative, and I've been a big supporter for everything that's old, and I don't want to disrupt much of the tradition. Still, there are some things that only bother me when I speak for a long time. A senator, perhaps mainly on the issue of religious freedom and religious tradition. I wondered: " Is there any difference in the length of tradition? If I started a religion now and had a little bit of a weight on my children or someone in the name of religion, would I not get away with it because I had just formed religion? Or if they were very old, would that be okay? Is there a difference between whether the bloodbath is much around it or not? How much is someone taken? Is there a difference between taking the foreskin or one toe? Where's the limit? Is there any point in this? That's what I'm wondering. I've also wondered, " Is it relevant to this discussion now because I heard the senator talking about six years of punishment, the senator being calmer if it was just a year, as if minor physical injuries were all equal in the law of law? Does the senator count himself above his head, as the law of punishment this day, that it is permitted? Has the senator wondered? In any case, it's not allowed, it's not an intervention of the genital organs or anything else. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u97	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. Pointing to tradition, he asked whether it matters whether it is new or old and deeply entrenched. To me, this is the tradition of religion for thousands of years, and I find it quite different from whether it is a congregation established next week in Reykjavík or whether it is the Jewish congregation, which, for example, is thousands of years old. Then asked why. A senator whether it matters whether the punishment was six years or one year. I say for my part, and have said it in my speech, that I don't think it should be punished. There are, however, rules to prevent this from being done at home, etc., I'm following that. Then mentioned why. A senator to see if I thought it was important. I answered. But it is also true that a messenger will answer this last question that a senator directed to me, so that he could simply malign it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u98	V.E.G. President. I think a bill like this needs a lot of discussion, it needs to grow up. I'm not saying here and now I'm some special sponsor of it, but I'm just thinking about the evidence in this. It seems like it's all about how long it's been. If it had never been, and someone would now establish a religious group, and this case would have this subject, where it would be totally fundamental, what would be the cause. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's children say? Would that be okay? Definitely not. So it's become a little bit of a tradition. There were many traditions here and elsewhere in religion. And because of what? A senator spoke of prejudice, was it prejudiced that men wanted to ban it, was it a part of prejudice, was it prejudiced against Muslims when we set the law on equal status of men and women? They say it's such a law that women have the right to do this and the other things are completely ridiculous. Should we in Iceland, what we believe is right and wrong, be molded by some thousand - year - old religion because it has always been that way? I'm not sure about that, but I'm not saying it, but, of course, I'm wondering: Is this bill necessary? This isn't done here. Should we not leave it alone, allow the discussion to develop and develop, let this happen more fully from the inside as everything that happens to us? Many things that were traditional for centuries ago, we were sobbing and flying over now. Maybe this needs to develop, I don't know. But I'm not ready to buy the argument that this is a tradition and part of some religious religious freedom, which I'm actually completely incomprehensible, but a religious tradition I can understand, and if we should not just allow it to develop just instead of giving such a steep bill. It may well be.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u99	Mr. President. I want to agree with what. A senator said that it is a good idea to allow the discussion to develop. Is this necessary? Is it necessary to take this deep in the years and punish them? I don't think so. It's simple. I have reasoned, and I have reasoned on that in my case here. That's what I'm talking about. A senator mentioned, so I only come back to tradition, so it is discussed in the Jewish canon of millions of people around the world. I feel like we can't overlook it. There I refer to the comments of the bishop of Iceland, who said that the Church had respect for the traditions and customs of other religions. I'd like to agree with that, with a diocese as far as possible, and the Bishop of Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u100	A respectable president. We are divided into political parties and classified by different ideals and ideas of interest and rights, the way we share our burdens, and the way we divide the goodies. We have all sorts of opinions about it, and sometimes people are grouped up for special interests and struggle for them, and at times people join in groups for the sake of the public interest and are fighting for them at the expense of their own interests. Then, too, people share how far they should go and which rights are more valid than others when they seem to be there. This is what might be said to divide us into groups, how we live in society. But then there are issues where we are divided across these traditional divisions. There may be other viewpoints. They can be personal, personal experience with the subject, our feelings, and our religion, our attitude toward other groups, but we feel that we belong in a cultural or nationalistic way and in a variety of ways. This matter we are discussing here in 1st. is the sort of case I feel that people have taken sides in the opposite direction. I have personally held this matter very strongly, but I have not always had the same opinions. I've had a bit of a swing in this case, like natural to all of us, depending on what you read at a time, because many people have expressed themselves about it in a very emotional way. Which is understandable. That's the way it is. And it is understandable that you are attracted by an emotional language that involves children's rights and that you are attracted to an emotional presentation that centers on minor rights. And also when you study an emotional presentation that is centered on the communities of different groups in today's population, for whether we like it or not, we're all here on this little earth and we're stuck with each other and have to try to live together in the most peace and have the most calmness around us like that. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's armour tried to create here this morning in his excellent way. At first, I had doubts about this matter. That hit me. I have to admit that I had not paid particular attention to this matter. What struck me right away was the thought that it would be dangerous for one group of people who believe in certain values to take systemic decisions on matters of another group that promote other values and other customs and practices. That Group A will make global decisions that apply to the whole community, especially on the customs and customs of group B, and that make customs and customs of group B punished, criminally, declare by legislation that the fundamentals of the individual species are detestable and criminal. That one group so employs so much by the customs and customs of another group. I found this risky in today's population with which we were living. In this regard, I also felt that there is a group, a religious group, or a nation, a cultural mess, of Jews who have endured persecution in Europe for centuries. The last century has terrible stories especially about the persecution of Jews. This custom of Jews, circumcision, is a fundamental factor in their identity. You have not become part of their society, the male part, until you have been circumcised. I felt that right away in the discussion of this subject that you were trying to observe on the Internet - you see a natural range of comments on the Internet that you may not be supposed to take seriously - certain tendencies in which prejudiced against Jews that I felt uncomfortable to see, especially in the light of history. I wonder if no one would expect me to be carrying a volleyball of all that is done in the name of the Jews, e.g. In Israel. It seemed to me that freedom of worship and individual freedom, religious practices against worldly thinking, sebusrisma, and it depends on how my attitude toward this was affected on the day of my life. Actually, it's not just about Jews, although I make them talk. It's as if we also know the custom among Muslims, even though Muslims have this practice a little later in life. They do not take children on the eighth day and circumcise. I'd like to be right, maybe it's one-third of the human race that's doing this. We are entering specific situations when we set such laws, and we are pleased to realize that we are involved in issues both Muslim and Jewish, which are known as well as in great debates for the waters of the Mediterranean Sea. But I don't think this bill is exactly meant to be part of the relationship process so they can settle down and turn against us. But in general, about faith. I think we have to think only about religion in this context. I feel that freedom of religion is one of our cornerstones, an open society. When I talk about religious freedom, I mean that you can associate with people who feel the same way as you do about a certain belief in a higher power to guide the world and to be with these people in worship and prayer. They deserve the respect of those who do not belong to that society themselves, up to a certain extent. They deserve the worst of all indifference, apathy. Just as we view it as our right not to share their beliefs. To me, freedom of worship revolves around thought, worship, prayer, faith, belief, ideas, and not necessarily action. It's, for example. can be set up in a religious sense by favor of polygamy. Some religious groups allow polygamy, e.g. Mormons. No, I guess they don't. But the practice of polygamy was fundamental to the Mormons. Such is the custom in certain communities. But we forbid polygamy in our society and have the many reasons I'm not going to go through here. Similarly, there are other religious customs, i.e. to some authority within these groups, forbidden in our society because they are thought to be against the general rights of individuals and human rights. We live in a society rooted in the 18th - century French government revolution. One of the key elements of the French government revolution was to free society from the church's power, free the individuals from obedience to priests, that priests and teachers have the daily life of people, and that they should tell people in their lives. Gradually, this spread, too, in the end. In Iceland, there was an age of religious belief, Teciras. The clergy and the church were amazingly active in the lives of people who began their hard work to conquer and ended up late in the evening praying and in labor with God's word all day long. We view faith as worthy of respect and should have a place in the community, not in its control. I'm done with my time. There are many reasons why, as yet, I had not all to accept such a bill. [[The president calls.]] I support the spirit of this bill. [[The president calls.]] But I believe that it is fundamental that we come to what we would like to say in conversation rather than in authority. [[The president calls.]] I believe that the council should have other ways of presenting its will in this matter than by the law of penalties.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u101	The president asks why. Councilmen showing respect for the deadline.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u102	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Thorsson the son of Thors for an extremely good and extensive speech. But perhaps to ask, since I only have one minute: Do we not agree that the Council is a relatively good set to a total? One of the reasons why this bill, along with others, presented the subject in some way, was given the discussion and the opinion it deserves. It is a complex matter in many respects, as the senator did. I ask if we would agree that the work ahead of us is very important. There will be guests at the meeting of the Committee. We'll get reviews from the local authorities who have knowledge of the issues. Do we not agree that this matter deserves what it is? [[The president calls.]] We don't have to hang ourselves for six years or two or three.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u103	Yes, it is absolutely true that any work that will take place on committees is extremely important, on any committee today, and on the conversation that will take place there. But as far as all of this is concerned, the discussion that is going to take place throughout the community and will continue to grow and deepen. I think we're going to find some solid conclusions in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u104	A respectable president. I would like to agree with the senator that tolerance in our society is extremely important. The fact that we are doing what we can to prevent prejudice and other ugly things from happening. To do so, we need to have a conversation and to base our community on information, that we have the same information in our hands, so that we can make wise decisions that will settle. Therefore, I would like to ask the senator if he would agree with me that the doctors, now the last nurses and midwives, do not agree that these groups remain permitted, i.e. is a reference to the case, based on recent research; that we base our decisions on information, new information, science and medicine, but not necessarily 5,000 years old traditions that few know how to come about and why.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u105	A respectable president. Of course, it is very important to listen to what doctors and nurses and other health care professionals have to offer about these matters as well as parents and those who have experience in these topics. Hv. A senator speaks of 5,000 years of tradition. They're even older. And they are very rich and deeply entrenched. I also, as in times past, doubt that we are involved in them by authority, by penalties, rather than by conversation and enlightenment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u106	A respectable president. I'm going to thank you. A senator for his conduct. But I would like to ask him a simple question. Does he think that we parents of children have children? Do we have the kids? Do we have the right to treat our children in any way that we want only if we have any faith? Which is greater, the right of the child, or the faith? I believe at all levels the child's rights are higher. We shouldn't have the right to harm a seven-day-old child. We must realize that in the operation, as doctors have noted, there are 20 thousand nerve endings being cut. I just say for my part that maybe we should thank God that we were born into other religions. If we had been born into the other religions, what then?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u107	A respectable president. If we had been born into other religions, sharing their beliefs, we would have viewed things differently than we do. That is all there is to say. Parents do not have children in the sense that they have to give them a place of rest while they are growing up and helping them to have a good life. That's exactly what I think the child's rights are. A senator turned up to be a key. The child's rights are basically what it's all about and why we're talking about this matter with such a serious nature. But that in itself does not make the matter simple. Although it works simple in our eyes, it does not necessarily work as simple in the eyes of those involved, the community in which it is concerned.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u108	A respectable president. I appreciate my names for the answer. But what I meant was that if we were born into that religion where there was a circumcision, it would be done when we were seven days old without being questioned and given anything to say. I can't see in any way that this ritual has something to do with religion. It has nothing to do with any man's decisions. Violence against small children has been decided and associated with some religion. I cannot understand that a child born seven days before the world did not have the perfect right to have anything to do with it. In most religions, we are spoken of as being created in the form of God. But then we are interrupting and saying that God did not create us perfectly. Rather, it is humans who are to complete us.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u109	A respectable president. I share that opinion with you. My names are that when we arrive in this world, we are perfect, and there is nothing to add except the maturity in us. But this is a deeply established practice of large civilizations, which strongly and strongly bind their identity to that custom, although we two names do not understand the practice and do not understand it, we do not understand the thought behind it. Even if we do not understand it, there may be some thought behind it. I believe our community should in some way express its desire that this is an unwanted act and that it should not be practiced. But as I have said before, I believe that we should extend it in ways other than by penalties.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u110	V.E.G. President. Of course, I'm in the exact same crisis as what. A senator with this case. Yet, one thing was hard for me to accept in the senator's case, this reference to religious freedom. I think it's really far-fetched. When these communities changed from religious societies to worldly communities, many customs were made penalties in their time. Hv. A senator set a fine example of polygamy and many other qualities. I'm just wondering, was this custom of this deeply established civilization, Jewish, so we talk about them, our tradition, our Icelanders? So, should we accept in itself that it's just allowed here? [[The president calls.]] We need to consider many people. But I'm in the same crisis. It's a matter of maturity, I agree with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u111	I simply cannot find answers to these questions. A senator because being a Jew, being a Muslim, being an Icelander is a little floating. These are all so liquid terms. Even the argument can be reasoned that it is really just a matter of decision being, for example. Icelander. What is involved in being an Icelander? Is it possible to be a Jew and an Icelander? A Muslim and an Icelander? I think we live here in a population society where the big tent is to be an Icelander, if we are part of this community, but it can include a variety of other ethnic fragments with a variety of different customs. The question is, How seriously do we view this practice and whether we feel it is necessary to forbid it? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u112	V.E.G. President. Yes, how much should we consider the manners of others? In view of the society we live in today, out - of - date, when are these customs even harmful, as they have been in all history? I wondered, as with this, that we who live in this community here can hardly bear the pain of children. That's why I've said it's already punishment. It would be closer to us being dealing with a bill that would simply authorize this, perhaps because of this great religious tradition. But I also wonder - I don't know much about Judaism - is all the covenant there in dozens or hundreds of branches, all allowed today? I have serious doubts about that, I just haven't studied it well enough. But this was written a long time ago.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u113	A respectable president. Freedom of religion is a term that has been widely used in this discussion, as well as by proponents of religious views, whether it is Jewish or Muslim Christians; the spokesmen that we show respect for religion get their own space in the community. It is then an assessment of how much space that should be. As I traced earlier in my speech, some customs have been attributed to beliefs that we do not tolerate today. Today, we are in a position to make a decision about this practice. We believe that freedom of worship, i.e. The freedom of a particular group to practice its customs and customs as he has done for thousands of years, the highest right of a child to be free of pain and to make decisions about his religion later in life? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u114	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Thorsson, the son of Thors,'s divinity for a very good speech, as he discussed various viewpoints and conflicts. It was philosophical and historical in its chapters. I think I've gone like many others. You're not 100% sure what to do about it. What I thought was interesting to me in speech. A senator was his comment on the clergy's influence. Then, of course, I refer to rabbis and Islam and to their names in all those religions. I think this effect in this country has become negligible. However, these are remnants of this system, where the clergy keep their arms around the congregations, and they direct their journeys. I'm not necessarily sure that it is all done by the inner conviction of the person who has to submit to the priesthood, each one in his own religion. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It was very interesting to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u115	A respectable president. It's about belonging to a certain community. It is also about submitting to a particular authority, submitting to discipline, and being obedient, and in some religions it is the elders who exercise this authority. We also teach this at times in the Father's Empire. It has been under attack in the Western world in the last century, and that system is still crumbling and floundering. I think most of us celebrate. We feel that we are better off making decisions on the basis of democratic viewpoints and that, as many as possible, decisions should be made rather than decisions made by some appointed elders alone. This is a custom that--yes, I might be able to get into it later.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u116	Madam President. I just want to step aside. This has rightly been mentioned in the discussion that Icelandic health care professionals have clearly expressed their views on this matter. I don't want to call it a clergy empire, but we have a strong community of doctors who have much to say about our lives and what they do and what they don't. That's fine. They work for their princely devices. There are other medical interventions that may be compared to the hierarchical powers, that are in the process of making irreversible changes in children born and having the vague characteristics of any kind. Doctors have so far worked hard and advised parents to intervene so as to be able to classify their children in the right way as they grow older. This is also an example of an intervention that I think is a major reason why we ourselves may be wondering when we are talking about others and what they do. [[The president calls.]] What do we do?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u117	A respectable president. I'll agree with this. It's a big deal with interexexensites and their right to determine their own falls or if they intend to fit in at the time. Something else that may be mentioned in this context, why not? paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson mentioned earlier whether parents should be able to make irreversible decisions, e.g. When we parents refuse to have children vaccinated, which can have dire consequences for these children. We know that the health system operates on children, such as tonsils, at least in terms of whether the child's well - being is always being guided.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u118	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir for providing the bill for banning boys. I'm proud to be one of eight members of the council who are partners on this bill. There's been a lot of things out there, I really appreciate it. It's always good to hear many views. I just want to refer to the facts, that we're a small island north of the prom sea, with a 100-year-old sovereignty anniversary this summer. We became republic 1944. We've built up our own rule. We are few, we are 340 thousand people. We have accepted various international terms and treaties, including the European Convention of Human Rights and so many others whom I do not intend to list. We are proud to have a constitution, our own constitution. Now it is urgent to change it and has been called upon to make it possible for everyone to understand, but the constitution is fundamental, all other laws are subdued before the constitution. It is harder to change the constitution because it requires a fundamental plan that it cannot be moved back and forth after thoughts we know, even in unstable government as we know so well here that it has been replaced by rulers once a year. That's why I'd like to go straight from what we're talking about right now. Presidential records of the Republic of Iceland. I'd like to refer to the 90-year-old rule. That's what it's for, the highest. Mr President, I'm going to have to put my glasses on. I'll connect it to what we're talking about right now. I connect it to peers, to boys, to girls, I connect it to people. That's why we have the Constitution's equal rule. We are protecting, as it were, people of all races and numbers and falls. The fact that male circumcision is an equal issue, because in 65rd. The republic shall say, by permission of the President: Let everyone be equal to the law and enjoy human rights without regard to sex Two. 65. g. says: ▪ Men and women should enjoy equal measure of right and wrong. It is clear that when it comes to right and duty, there must be no distinctions depending on whether it is a boy or a girl. That's what we all agree on, the highest. President. I really want to believe that. The entire Icelandic nation agrees. We agree on the equality of the sexes. There is no need to argue here or anywhere else. Our role as members of Congress is to ensure that equality is respected in the law and in the performance of it. At 218. a general penal law says, by permission of the President: ▪ Any person who is assaulted will harm the body or the health of a girl or a woman by partially removing her genital organs will be in prison for up to 6 years. The fact is, we have placed in the general penal law of penalties, punishment, in causing damage to a girl's body or health by partially removing her genital organs. We are under obligation to protect our boys in the same way, in a similar legal manner. Why? Yeah, because the right guys and girls are the same. He's protected from our constitution. We should respect her. We certainly do this by accepting this bill that is available here. As a result, since we're talking about our basic laws, since we're talking about human rights, the section of the Constitution, it's the most important thing to refer to 68 st. The constitution. By permission of the president, I will read what is stated there in Genesis. mgUnable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: ▪ You can use torture or any other inhuman or disrespectful treatment or punishment. What does it mean to use torture? What does it mean when it's attacking the healthy body of a little child who really is--it's so hard to say this, I just get upset when I see what we've had to look up at now, we've got all kinds of transmissions. We're getting medical reports. There are thousands of doctors everywhere in Europe who have sent us support for this bill. They simply say: " Help me set an example. One day we'll have to produce some changes. How can we do that? Someone has to be bold and capable. Although it would be only a little Iceland because we have laws and regulations that we're expected to follow. Do we need to talk about the traditions and customs that came to pass thousands of years ago somewhere else? Do we need to think about it, even if someone thought it was normal to eat people? Do we have to think over something different than this and now, that our rules are the rules that all those we want to attend home should follow as much as the rest of us live here? In order to be a member of a community, we have to start by respecting each other, and that's at least It is minimal to respect the laws and rules we have set for ourselves to follow and apply. Iceland's out of shape. It is a challenge to be human, to defend equality, to protect genders, and other things that we really notice because it is easier for us to do so few in the way we are. I'm proud of being an Icelander. We too can be. Then I'll say, "It's for us." We are now being relied on to stand on our feet and say: "Our law, we will respect it. We respect human rights. We respect the individual's freedom to make our own decisions, no matter what Mom and Dad believes. No one is talking about the fact that the individuals who follow the faith, whether Jews or Muslims, will later not be able to make this decision on their own, which is exactly what it's all about, that we get to decide it ourselves when we have sense and develop where our lines are heading, which is our way of life. I don't really have anything to add. All I'm saying is, we have our laws and our rules. We have our equality, and we have our lives. We have a covenant, child protection law, the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights, a ban on torture and the Self - Control Court, the highest. Mr President, everything is higher. We are to decide for ourselves whether or not we are cut off.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u119	A respectable president. It would be a wish that no further discussion would be needed after this fine talk. A senator who spoke here before me. It is, however, that we may need to discuss this further. I'm going to try to review all of this together in the short time we have to discuss this important matter. This is more important, I think, but people may realize. It comes a little further from today's age, from what happens today, but it really is a matter of nothing less than human culture and culture in general. As for my position on the bill itself, I basically agree with its goals. I'm unsure of the penalty frame and the law technology, both points I would completely trust a Senate committee to do better with the stitches. But the objective is noble, necessary, and, in my opinion, inevitable. I think it is a matter of time before such laws will be established, both here and everywhere in the world, at all times, in a world that we can call free, where people have freedom of worship, freedom of expression, and immunity, and right over their own bodies. This will be as long as the struggle for human rights continues to succeed. The only thing that could stop this development from happening to me is if the struggle for human rights goes backwards, if there's a setback in the struggle for rights. In human history, a relapse has occurred. An example of this is the fall of the Roman Empire. No matter what people think about the subject of the bill itself, it is a real joy to see that this discussion is under discussion. We only need to start talking about the kind of honesty, but we must take it, how religion, religious tradition, hold back human rights and evolution. I hope now that no one is freaking out because of a scandal. It's not so bad as I was saying, it's just a historical fact. Of course, not all religions are talking about all religions, they are enormously different and forever breaths from every religion that bears a name. Christians do not agree. Muslims don't agree. The Jews do not agree. And atheists don't agree. People just don't agree, and everything's fine, it's beautiful, it's great. The church, as I call it, has borne on for driving on human rights and so on, when it was just the national church that held back the rights of homosexuals to get married on religious grounds, for religious reasons. That's the way it was. I know that at last the meanest hearing has been reassigned, fortunately, and long enough. It was what, 2011, that we kindly allowed homosexuals to get married. It's funny if it wasn't so sad. There were religious reasons why this took a long time. No one must dare be offended at this historical fact. And it's not rude to mention it, it's just to talk about it as it is. In this and this intervention, I've noticed in the discussion that there's a lot of disagreement about how much intervention this really is. That's what I call a fact question. People question if it's painful. People question whether they are at risk of infection. This is all something that you can study and find out for sure, it is not based on values or the opinion of messengers or speakers here. This is something that can be found out. Everything I've read about this suggests that the pain of this operation is out of the question, absolutely terrifying. When children are eight days old, it is impossible to numb them so that they can be detracted. That's the biggest reason I'm all for this bill and I think it's probably just the pain the baby gets. Children of this age are young enough to be unable to form memories. That's why we're all forgetting this, all of us who've been through this -- which isn't me, by the way -- we're all forgetting. [[Up front.]] If you are older, you can not only numb something but, of course, you can remember it. No wonder people don't remember this terrible pain, but it occurs; it occurs while the child passes through that eight days of age or any of its youth. I have respect for the past as long as possible. 4th, including We're out of here. "Gurmundur Andri Thorsson, said earlier, he mentioned that he might rather bring this up with a conversation than with an authority officer. I find it obvious that in penalties it should be forbidden to walk this way on the privacy and rights of children, their physical immunity. I think it's obvious. Similarly, I respect the approach because, of course, this is better or worse and no matter how insane, the extremely profound faith of an overly large group of people. There is a problem that must be solved much by conversation, but I also consider the donation of this bill and this discussion here as part of that conversation. I'm glad we're on the world news about this. I'm glad people are really talking about it and really arguing about it, because it's about time, though earlier. In this case of our infants, this is another religious offence that holds back our rights. We can speak of the fact that according to these and other books, respect for the religious ways of others is obligatory. The evidence must only be replaced. I'm still worried that this is how we do it, to do it directly, especially with such a high line. I'd like to put them at ease. One is that this will be done anyway, this simply won't stop people, because, as silly as they are then, it's a very profound religious conviction that is present in many religious groups and profound discrepancies among other groups, such as in the United States, where it's not done on religious grounds, but it's superabundantly a lot of these bickers around it that hold this place in place. When there is such strict conviction, there is a danger that people may simply compromise the law. If people were to do this in discriminate with the law, for fear of a high line, on eight-day children, they might as well call a doctor, and nobody better get in trouble for calling a doctor. That's what worries me. As I'm saying, the forwarding of this bill is just part of this conversation we're supposed to take. I'm also worried about other things, but that's only different, i.e. that this arouses hostility against certain religions or adds to cultural conflicts. I've seen it already happen, I think it's very boring. Let us, though, keep in mind that there are all such misunderstandings on the bill. All of these are based on misunderstandings and thoughtlessness. It's not about limiting anyone's religious freedom, it's not about pointing a finger and saying that someone's bad or somebody's being gay, it's just about protecting the rights of children, it's not that complicated. Like I say, misunderstanding can be harmful. As I also said earlier, I have no concern that this will be permitted permanently unless there is a setback in the struggle for human rights. But as I say, my fear is also that there can be a setback. This may be the case when cultural conflicts occur. I'm worried about this. But again, it's all based on misunderstanding. I reiterate that I agree with the goal of the bill, and I think it's obvious. But the only problem for me is that human society, mankind, is just further primitive in a number of things. This is one of the points where we still accept tradition, a very old tradition, from a time I think it's super-hot that people think of as sacred. I'm just going to get into it, I'm going to get out of it for a minute. First, I have only to mention religious freedom. It is often called religious freedom. There is no question that this issue is about parental freedom of worship. However, it is all about the freedom of religion of the child. Often, the question is, How far does religious freedom reach? I can answer that. It goes all the way, all the way, for each one. It is not just a matter of freedom of worship to force something on others. It is a violation of religious freedom. It is a violation of freedom of religion that forced one's life on another. Also, it is not religious freedom to enjoy special privileges, such as the state church bullshit that we have here in Iceland. More about that later. This is a matter of freedom of worship for the child. We might ask, " Why should we stand here and hinder people's freedom of worship? ' Why on earth should we waste our time on it? Is that some special interest for senators in Iceland? Hum! I'm going to annoy some religious group just because. Of course, that's not the point. Clearly, the issue, which is very clear in the report and all of the advocates of the matter, is about the child's rights and nothing else. People can only begin to recognize them. No one's forbidding adults to perform this operation if they want to, no one forbids adult people to do it. But we don't allow children to drink, we don't think they have the maturity to decide. We place considerable restrictions on their sexual behavior because we feel that they do not have the maturity to make decisions about their sexual behavior. We do not allow them to accept financial obligations, nor do we allow them to marry for the same reason. But why should we think that an eight - day - old person, or a ten - year - old, would have enough maturity to make such a decision? It's a mystery to me. But okay. According to this, ten - year - old shame is better than eight days; a ten - year - old understands at least the concept of physical pain can at least understand it. Of course, the basic reason is that somehow we have to put food on it, and eight days clearly out of the map. I've got to go into a little conversation about where this comes from and what we're talking about. I'm not trying to be rude, I just have to try to be honest. But I have to quote from Genesis, chapter 17, verse 9◯14, by permission of a president: And Guð said unto Abraham, Thou shalt keep my covenant, thou, and thy seed after thee, from generation to generation. This is my covenant, which ye shall keep, between me and you and thy seed after thee: every male among you shall be circumcised. And ye shall circumcise the flesh of your foreskin, which is the token of the covenant between me and you. Eight days old shall all the children circumcise among you, after the generations, both they that are born in the house, and as the children that are bought of any stranger that is not of thy seed. And he that is born in thy house, and him whom thou boughtst, shall be circumcised: and so shall my covenant be in your flesh for an everlasting covenant. But the uncircumcised man, who is not circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin, shall be cut off from among his people. He has broken my covenant. That's where this tradition comes from. Let's go back to class. Exodus, chapter 31, verse 15, by permission of a president: Six days shall work be done: but the seventh day is a sabbath of rest, holy unto the Drottinn. And whosoever doeth work on the sabbath day shall surely be put to death. Let's go a little further ahead. Leviticus, chapter 20, verse 27: And if a man, or woman, have a spirit of enchantment, or a spirit of divination; then shall they be put to death. They shall stone with stones; their blood shall be upon them. Most important, since I have a little time: Leviticus, chapter 24, verse 16, by permission of a president: And he that blasphemeth the name of the Drottinn shall be put to death. And all the congregation shall stone him without mercy. Whether he be a stranger, or born in the land, blaspheme his name; he shall surely be put to death. This is the Bible, a dignified president. It says right there, after this tradition of circumcision. Is it rude to say that this is barbarism? Is it rude to say that this is totally a map for civilized society? If it wasn't for that religion still has such a grip on human society, would we be using that reasoning when we discuss matters such as whether we should stop the prohibition against blasphemy that, by the time I remember, we made the summer of 2015? Gumungus, from what I hear. I don't think so. I don't think we were talking about it. I don't think it would be in any way controversial unless people demand to hold on to religious beliefs that are ancient - and by the time I remember, there are absolutely religious grounds to fail them. Happily, people are putting one another to death for working on the Sabbath or for whatever else, they are no longer that way. And that's good. Being a Jew, however, it is possible to be a Christian. It is possible to be a Muslim, that is not a problem. This is all a question of what you personally draw out from these publications. And by the way, I'm probably one of the greatest fans of Jesús the son of Jósefsson frá Nasaret. I'm not going to say I'm his biggest fan in this room, I'm not going to let myself be that arrogant, but I'm a very strong admirer of that man. There was no need for miracles, no one to walk on water, no one had to wake anyone from the dead - I just think it's a text message. I think it's logical what Jesús said, personally. Maybe I'm just weird. It takes no miracle to preserve its tradition, and it does not have to hold on to the rearwarming things of its religions in order to call itself Jewish, Christian, or Muslim, that is not the case. Happily, all religions, including Judaism, have developed. It is now time for the tradition of Brit Shalom, which replaces Brit Milah. Shalom Milah is the custom of circumcise, and Brit Shalom is a tradition of name - making that opposers have taken further action among the Jews. You can be a Jew without being circumcised, you can. I don't have time to cross here to Islam and all, but the attitude at the end: I repeat that I am totally in favor of the bill's goals. This is a very important discussion, and all the fatigues that result from this discussion are important growth pains on the way of mankind. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u120	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Hrafn Djöfnsson of Gunnarsson's fine march here in the pont. It was just a pleasure to listen to him, both fun and serious. I wanted to point out the point when you're talking about, although I didn't want to go into the pain that little male children will experience when they are being attacked and circumcised, the fact is that the pain is not just during the operation, which tears the foreskin completely off the king, completely leaves everything behind one open wound, but is a slippery diaper on the little baby afterwards. Each of us can imagine how long it will take to heal. How long will this baby cry for, for how many days before it is healed so it doesn't work out?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u121	A respectable president. When I look at these matters, I try to make it as cold as I can from basic ideas about people's rights, because we tend a little bit when discussing people's rights to think of us as the role of what right we're dealing with. For example, would I like to drive a cab without permission? Would I like to smoke pot in the street? Would I want to see that or that? It is not necessarily the point of what I would like or what I feel personally about this operation. What really matters is what the person feels about it is. An eight - day - old person and even a lot older than he or she can't make this informed choice, as if we forbid children to make decisions about sexual behavior as an example. I simply look at it from the child's rights regardless of the feelings I feel about the act myself. I think it's clear that this is a violation of the child's rights and the main reason why we can accept it is just because of peer pressure in which society demands that we accept it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u122	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson and understand him perfectly. What I think is our main ingredient here and now, it's not the Old Testament or religion anywhere, but it's our rules, our community, our makeup, our human rights on which we depend. I say again, respect the individual. Let us respect his freedom to decide for ourselves what line he will take in his religious beliefs. Let's give him freedom of worship. That's what we're saying. We proclaim freedom and human rights. We have a constitution that forbids torture. I say, as soon as we abide by our own laws, which I believe, in fact, are already under ban on child torture, we must stop it in agreement with the laws that have already been passed on to girls. There comes in again, as I referred to earlier in my speech, the rule of equality. As we put our own minds around the laws and regulations, we know exactly where we are.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u123	A respectable president. I kind of have to agree with that as a matter of course. paritaprevir The serf Birgir Þórarinsson stated earlier when there was a debate concerning the United Nations Children's Covenant and all that, I agree that I think it is impossible for such a covenant to have been adopted by the United Nations, the nations of the world, if the understanding had been understood that it would be accepted. I agree with that. On the other hand, if you read the children's covenant and the evidence of this in spite of the tradition of religion, it is clear that a child's rights were violated, that is very obvious. But this is because some type of circumcision is such a deep - seated part of Western culture that somehow forgets that it is. Again, I think that it defended that people have been saying for a very long time that they are not painful, that they are not dangerous, that I disagree in a physical way, and that it is obvious that they are wrong in the case of surgery. But if you think it's harmless, you think it's harmless. So if it turns out that it is not harmless, of course, we must read the United Nations Children's Covenant in the light of it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u124	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson's Hophni for a very tight and good speech. He drew it so well, explaining it in his own unique way that it is the child's rights. By defending the child's rights by such laws, it is not against the religious freedom of adults. Still, adults will have the freedom to practice religion, and children too, when they have the age to take action if they want to change in some way. I'd like to ask you what. Senator on the penalty frame and the progress on this. The one standing here was in some trouble with that, if the truth be told, how should this happen? I'd like to know what the senator's ideas are about if it was right to have a 218. gr. b, make a special decision on boys and have another line of penalty for boys and what possible punishment might be, possibly a lesser law, or whatever it might be. I just want to hear the senator's idea of that. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u125	A respectable president. I put it very deliberately, so I'm not sure which is because I have a problem with this myself. I can see the difference between the circumcision of boys and what is now banned and was once called the circumcision of women but is, of course, mutilation and assault. I can see quite a difference over there. Whether it should be in the same article, however, I am afraid to agree. Except for the line I'm worried about, I'm wondering if there's more at home in a discussion about the physical immunity of the intersex babies born. There is something that has not yet received as much discussion in the community as it deserves. It is not necessarily a simple discussion, so it does not necessarily belong in this bill or that bill there. There are these things that play in, so I don't know about it, but as I say and say in my speech, I hope the committee sheds a better light on how legal technical output is suitable. [[The president calls.]] I'll come in on the penalty frame a little bit better in the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u126	A respectable president. We're gonna go for a second. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson agrees that it is difficult to do so, and we put our trust in the committee to find out about this, but it sounds to me that our role as lawgivers is to protect the rights of children and to fulfill the covenants that we have already legalized on the rights of children, human rights, and so on. I totally agree with what. A senator says that there is a difference in the nature of these actions. However, girls may be described as being in several degrees of severity, but in all cases, child action, pain, risks, and violations of their rights. I sometimes think about whether or not we're going to hurt more. Do we hurt the boys any more? Do we hurt the girls more? In both cases, the measures are irreversible and take into account. [[The president calls.]] The Intersex debate is just what we need to take, but I deliberately left it because it's also complicated. Let's do one at a time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u127	A respectable president. These are the same questions I wondered about myself and have no absolute 100% solutions. As far as I agree, this should be the same suit, the fundamental violation is this concern of the child's rights. It's broken itself in nature. Then there may be degrees of severity, just as assault may vary, even though it is a single gang that protects them. Flirting is different in severity, and applying all kinds of things. In that sense, I fully understand that the line of punishment is so heavy. When it comes to mutilating a girl's genitals, he feels just right. I'm the one who did a very special thing for me. The main reason for separating this something, if there's a reason for it, I'm not sure as I say, may be that punishment in the law needs to reach a certain goal. I think it's possible to achieve this goal without having the penalty frame so heavy at first, second of all, to tap in all kinds of police evidence at a six-year term, which is something I wanted to study on a committee. Like I'm saying, I'm not sure of this. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator's approach to this is quite correct, and it's essentially the same offense, but I'm not sure.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u128	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Gnarson's Hrafn Gunnarsson before a brilliant speech that swept all of us who listened to him. I must say that it was quite a good point, which I had, frankly, not to think about, with religious freedom, that it really is about the freedom of the person who just came into the world and that's how we see it. I'd like to pray for a second. A senator will consider it with me for a short time whether or not we will not lose the discussion. We agree here on the role of religion in the community and the rights of children, but are we not likely to lose this discussion when it is out into the world and into the communities and into the independent lives of these great times of civilization?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u129	A respectable president. As strange as it may sound, since I'm concerned about cultural difficulties, I'm not particularly concerned that this conversation is more about its opposites than about other religious discussions. It is such, to have been a very long part of a religious discussion on the Internet, that these are always controversial. It is something about a religion that touches the human heart very deeply and very close, making people feel easily offended, easily offended, and they feel attacked even when it comes to healthy criticism. It comes, I think, partly because Arab religions are wrapped in glorious splendor, holiness, and this amazing thing of blasphemy exists; that you must not criticize religion, you must not, it is sinful, then you are somehow working with the devil. This is truly deep in Arab religion. It's a strong subject over the head. Although the discussion may be very severe, and there is a risk of cultural differences, I think it is far better to discuss the matter than it does not occur.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u130	That's right, this idea of blasphemy goes wrong with the basic idea of open society that there's no idea that you can't make fun of it; it's just ideas, it's not people, it's just ideas. I cut it at the end of the day. A senator read some examples from the Bible book of Genesis about various types of rules and customs that are decomposed and said that being a Jew does not necessarily involve surgery in a period of time. But isn't it fundamental that being a Jew can cause us to decide what it is and what it isn't to be a Jew? It must come from these communities themselves, this conscious awakening that we want to see about the rights of children.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u131	A respectable president. In part it is certainly that, and most likely more, since I mentioned in my speech, and specifically stated that I have great respect for this approach to make this conversation. But I just don't think the conversation will take place unless there's actually an opportunity for this to be banned. To say something like this: This practice, which is self - esteem, is not self - esteem, we think it should be punished for him. It's good to just get the discussion on that. I think that's the only way to get her really out, or it's just nerds like me arguing on the Internet, in some closed chat rooms out in the world. There's not going to be a lot of trouble around here. It's going to be a lot of places, and I like it. For this fundamental question, this is a very good question, of where the pressure on change is to come, of course, it is by far the most likely to come from those who think about it. It's necessary, I think. For example, with the state church, which I'm obviously opposed to being connected to the state, it's nice to have this church, it can do what it wants for me, I just don't think it's allowed to have a part of the constitution and state. It's a question of whether the pressure should come from within the church itself or whether we should stick to the prince's arms. The princes must be equal to the law. In the matter of freedom of worship for infants.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u132	Madam President. I want to thank the senator for a very good speech. Here is one speech that is inspired and good, that is very good. I'm still a little lost in these parts, but I realize that we're here talking about the right child, we're talking about the right parent and something that's irreversible, so this whole thing gets mixed up in religion. We're here talking about irreversible things about messing with the bodies of male children in this case, but we're also feeding on children's soul. The church has been named. There, for example. We baptize children who are free to speak, and we include them in a congregation because their parents have some particular faith. There is, of course, a famous example of a man who wanted his baptism to be invalidated and his nationality, the mild, could not get himself to invalidate baptism for this person, but more and less his whole life was about to invalidate it. [[The president calls.]] Should we not, then, ban baptism and later baptism?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u133	A respectable president. In fact, we in Pirates have proposed a bill to automatically stop the registration of children of religious organizations. I think we'll put it back together if we haven't already done it, and I just can't remember if we've made it up for this council. As for baptism, and all of this, the event itself will never be undone. If anyone was baptized, he will always have been baptized. Clearly, though, it is the right of people to dissert themselves from everything they are recorded in. Today, this new right, the personal right, is due to the right to be forgotten. It is part of the right to change what was once set for you. Of course, on the foundation we make a lot of decisions for our children, what they eat, even when they associate with them, what they go to school, what they learn, etc., an excessive amount of power that parents have over their children. But it's gone a little far over there. This is not merely an operation into a religion. When it comes to baptism itself, as interesting as I find this cause my son Hóseasson's name at the time, I wonder: " Why do I care anything about what the church thinks about my baptism? What does that have to do with her? [[The president calls.]] Why do I care whether the church considers me baptized or not? As long as there's an official registration according to my will, I can't do much of what others think.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u134	Madam President. The natural point is that the ceremony itself is not reversible. If there is something unacceptable in mind, you ask yourself: " Should we put individuals in this position? But I'm not going to discuss this specifically, but I just wanted to mention it. Then we have religions around the world and to some extent here in Iceland, where we can debate what is going on inside and how good it is for children to grow up in those congregations, so we can talk it out. What I'm actually putting out is, and I'm not making this matter down, I'm taking it very seriously, it's that there are many things that are related to what parents are allowed to do to children for whom we're unconcerned and not always that it's good for blessed children to whom we all have compassion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u135	A respectable president. I wish I had more time to discuss this point with you. Because many debates over the psychological consequences of blaming children for the phenomenon of hell are involved. I suggest that people really wonder what a child has creative imagination and they are taught that if they do certain things or don't do any things, or if they don't believe anything they think is amazing, they'll go to hell. This is an extremely cruel approach to life, and the only excuse for this is that people don't know any better. Of course, this is superstition. Then there is individual freedom of opinion. We always have to get this out of the child's rights. In this matter, I find it obvious that the child's rights are being handled. However, regarding our right to convince one another, he is rather rich, really complete because we have freedom of expression. But we always have the right to come to other viewpoints. So I would first make comments to a religion that forbade children to read certain things or to consider the world out of something but a very narrow view. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There I feel that we are at a very high level of ice with what we are doing in our homes. But as I say, I wish we had more time to discuss this matter. Maybe someday we'll do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u136	Madam President. I'm just gonna take part in this discussion. I'm one of the carriers of this case. I asked a question at the 145th Parliament, reminded me of the general circumcision of both girls and boys, and have had a considerable interest in this matter. I spoke to children in that formal or informal group in my time and made myself more concerned about their affairs. In fact, I come from the school system so that when they grow older, you often think more about situations where children live, regardless of their own will. But now I think that we are all spokesmen of children, whether we are of this group or not. What we face in this discussion is that it begins to revolve around religion and religious freedom rather than revolve around the human rights of children. I've had an excellent conversation with an agent, someone but not all, the organization of this country who's had children in the foreground, who are also international organization as well as others, and many may have a little difficulty taking sides in this matter. This has been about self - determination rights. That's what this is about. The individual's own personal rights. I agree with what was discussed earlier with the Intersexs, homosexuals and other people. We've been very ahead in a fight of rights. A health secretary intends to present an intersex bill. I think it's very important, and I think that this is also the case where we're supposed to be in a state of human rights. As we have seen in world news, this small country can have a powerful influence. I'm sure all of us senators, at least all of us who've been on this case, got all kinds of stories from foreign and domestic sources, men who've been circumcised, women who are married to circumcised men who don't have the guts to come up, are ashamed. It's a lot of emotions, and it's hard to relate to them, since this is not the norm in our culture and to understand the consequences of this situation. It's amazing how much is involved, e.g. In the United States, still. This has been written a lot, both doctors and nurses, and others have sent an obligatory declaration that this bill is being fulfilled. It has been written articles that unless there is a direct medical case, avoid circumcision on boys. Doctors even believe that this war is against their moral code. Their message is that such an operation should not be performed unless there are compelling medical reasons. I have to agree with that. On a site called tru.is is Birgir, the son of Ásgeirsson, who was brought to Mass that day bearing the name Circumcision of the Heart. I want to quote it because it is absolutely true that this has not been discussed in the church as such. That's why, to some extent, there's a review from the authority, I think. In fact, according to the Bishop, this was not discussed at the local church field, either in the doctrine committees or at church councils, but it seems that there is no doubt in the matter of interpretation of the sermon, i.e. The Bible. This is now one of the thousands of years we have been facing, i.e. different interpretations of this publication. Who understands it with his nose? Hence, people are divided into various religious groups, and conclusions can be drawn. However, the book of Birgir, a Ásgeirsson about the postuli Jakob, ponders in the context of the circumcision, meditates on it, and reaches its conclusion, and makes it absolutely clear that children's surgery is a causeless approach to their well - being. Then we will see that there are differences in this class, as most probably do, but I don't know, many people, about the Bible's interpretation of those words. Whether we're talking about the health system, the parenting and education system, he says, it's the support of our civilized society. The United Nations is that, all classes there, care for each generation, and promote its development and awe. This leads us to these covenants that we have signed, and the nations have signed with the basics, health and well - being, and general progress. And justice, practicality, and mercy, says Birgir, are there to light. The children's covenant shows that it includes international recognition that children need special protection beyond the adults and that they also enjoy the rights of the children's covenant, regardless of race, color, sex, tongue, religion, political views, patriotism, disability, social status or other circumstances, and the activities of their parents. Such irreversible intervention can hardly be viewed as fulfilling what is being said here. Also, a Birgir says, so let me keep quoting him: ▪ Many quotations can be found in the Bible in connection with circumcision. They have in common the need to focus on the Law and on the good news. Jesús was born into a society of the law, where, for example, was born. A cure on the Sabbath was considered a violation of Guð's Law. Jesús changed this understanding of the Law and the attitude of individuals and society so that most important, compassion, understanding, consideration, mercy, love - not circumcision of the flesh but of the circumcision of the heart. We have a reputation for such a change: Good news. That remarkable word includes even. has become free. I found this very interesting article, perhaps supporting my viewpoints, to fit them. Since then, too, you have been studying. I've been talking about the rights of children, that we'll increase their share in decision-making. It's always us adults making decisions for children. We need to do so at some particular times until they know what to do, but then we may forget to take them along for advice. That's what we're talking about here at the Generals. I'd also like to quote just an article that Arndís Kristínardóttir Kristirdóttir Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, a doctorate in Human Rights at the University of Strasbourg, wrote where she uses a legal perspective from the European Convention of Human Rights. It feels that from the legal point of view of war, children are not forbidden against parental freedom of worship, especially where freedom of worship is permitted to be restricted by the rights and freedoms of others. This is shown in 1 mg. Count 9. The human rights covenant says that each person has the right to freedom of thought, conscience, and religion. This involves the freedom of people to change their beliefs or beliefs as well as to fulfill their beliefs or convictions, such as their God - given work, their ministry, their conduct, and their sacred service. It is also worth reviewing that in 1981 the General Assembly of the United Nations agreed on a declaration of elimination of all intolerance by faith, specifically discussing the rights of a child's guardians to organize his life according to his own beliefs and moral convictions. While the child's rights are being taught in harmony with his parents'wishes, it is noted that children should not be pressured to accept such instruction against their will and that the principle of what is best guided by the child's wishes. In the final part of the law, it is specifically stated that exercising the faith of the one to whom the child is brought up should not harm the child's physical and mental health or interfere with the development of the child. Again referred to such limitations as legal and only if necessary in a democratic society. This discussion also shows the right of children to privacy, as stated in Article 8. The Convention of Human Rights. It contains a set of requirements, e.g. for medical or laboratory procedures performed without the approval of the individual. Moreover, the circumcision of very young boys prevents them from enjoying their rights according to Article 9. About freedom of worship, verse 12. the children's covenant, and so on. There are many articles that we have undergone that stand absolutely by this bill. On the other hand, there can be such a question as "woe. " The manager rolled up, and the committee considers, the frame of decision, whether it is too heavy. I believe in nothing other than the comments about the subject and about religion, if people overlook it, we'll have some parances, whether people think it's too much or what. This subject has attracted a great deal of attention. It is becoming a conscious awakening around everything that this issue has to do, about what has been done for centuries, and does not necessarily have to continue doing, at all. We are to change towards the better if we are told that this procedure is not a protection against what was thought and is still being practiced in some countries where people are directly told that it is a protection against HIV and therefore these actions are carried out. We know better. It may be education that needs to be done. The #meto revolution took too long. It took too long for all of this to surface. This is often true when it comes to matters involving the world's religions that many have been allowed to fry too long and not necessarily benefit people in general. I hope this bill is well discussed in the Committee. I've been thinking a lot about whether the matter needs to grow up or not, and I've been swinging back and forth. I think there's gonna be a lot of debates, because it's been so long in the discussion, even before it was given the order. I hope we can handle it in a reasonable way from the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u137	Mr. President. It's about a lot of interesting bill. I've said that before, including. on radio show with a bang. paritaprevir and 1st. Silja Dög Dögg Gunnarsdóttir that it is a matter contrary to categories, across the whole community, and interesting how we solve it from philosophy and religious freedom and that respect for the way a person is born, each individual. If a boy's circumcision was not directly involved in religious ceremonies and religious freedom, we would not be diskizing it, it would just be something we would all agree with. But it does. I admit that I would like to have more discussions about this in the community. I would like to have a seminar and that we try to dissect this better and longer than these weeks here at the council. That said, it is important to me that religious freedom does not overwhelm individuals from birth. Then, when they are 18, it is their responsibility to decide what they will be and what they will do. On the other hand, as many have noted, it seems to me that this ceremony is being criminal. It is also the embodiment of the discussion of religious freedom that I feel sorry for. So I want to ask you why. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir agrees with me that it will be considered in a general penal law. Is it possible to have it somewhere else in law, so that it can be clearly defined, such as well. þm. Jón Steindór came in earlier, that we have a certain prince in regard to the operations of newborn babies? [[The president calls.]] The first question, and then later: Is this really the case in general law?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u138	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. It is these traditions that we are confronted with, religious traditions, or other traditions, such as those discussed here today. I concluded earlier on this matter that we need to look to the knowledge and knowledge we have today. I'm saying that if it wasn't about faith, we wouldn't be discussing it. Everything that turns to faith usually causes much discussion, no matter what is discussed at any time. And I agree with the senator that this does not override human rights. Maybe that's what's so important in this. To criminalize the ceremony? I don't think we're doing that. It may be possible that this might be at home other than in general penalties, but I don't quite know where. It is true that we could set up some kind of law, some list of what is forbidden to be done with newborn babies, such as the Intersex bill provided by health ministers, and hopefully it will come out. That will be the case. I don't know if it had anything more to do with this place than here. It may well be found in committee discussions that people feel that they are better off there. I don't particularly think about it, I just admit it, in which law exactly does it belong. We'd like to make it a punishment that's being done in this country. And then we can argue about the barge, whether it's too heavy. [[The president calls.]] At any rate, we will see what the committee says. I'm not taking my stand on that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u139	President. It is a large princely affair that we need to take further and give ourselves time to do so. This operation is being criminalized in part by saying that she spent up to six years in prison. This is an act that has been a religious act over the years. This is being compared to the transcircumcision of the girl's genitals. I don't think it's right to go that way. Second, I'd also like to stress that I don't think that circumcision on boys is allowed on the basis of the principle that we should always look after children's interests, their high court. So that any doubt is taken from me. In view of the bill that's coming out of an intersex case from the health minister, I think we should take some time. No matter what anyone may say, it has to do with religion, which is also a fundamental part of our constitution. Then it is important for us during a council meeting to be careful. I believe most of us agree on this. I haven't heard a lot of people recommend a boy's circumcision. I haven't heard a senator speak that way yet. Let's find the right surface. It is also important for us Icelanders that we are not making indications that we do not view certain religious groups, Muslims, Jews, as well as others. I'm warning you we're going that way. I'm celebrating this discussion, finding it a unique opportunity for us senators to deal with philosophical issues, but also fundamental in our community. But we must take the right course, try and call all our viewpoints, but, of course, the child's viewpoint is to determine everything.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u140	Mr. President. I thank the senator again. We should also not forget that the circumcision of women or girls is not just one species; unfortunately, there are some types of such circumcision, atrocious. To me, it's about both being irreversible. Why is there a penalty for doing something irreversible to girls instead of boys? You can totally roll it up that way. I think it's a violation of the baby. It's not old enough to agree with this today. Similarly, a religious question may be raised to those who believe that we are made of gods: Is he giving us something unnecessary? Should something be removed if it is not? My opinion is that it is generally meant to abstain from other people's genitals, that is just the prince's step, unless allowed, even if it is the parents who want to do something because they were born into something and believed something. I agree with that. A senator, and I hear we all agree that the child's right is the greatest. But I can't feel inside of me that it should be less punishable to have an irreversible operation on boys than on girls. When it is said that it is not so serious - it is irreversible. That's what it's all about. A child to whom she is once taken cannot reenter the foreskin. That is what we should have in mind. I think it should be as punishment as it is, even though I can totally agree that we can look at the line of judgment. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u141	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Silja Dög Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, a representative of this bill, for presenting the bill that it does here with eight other members of the council, but even more so for raising the issue that has rightly brought to our attention the ancient customs that are more or less unknown to us. I would also like to express special satisfaction in the way many have spoken up here and viewed the bill and its subject and asked questions, difficult questions. Here's a change of 1 mg. 218 gr. Penalties to include the addition of the first provision set out in 2005, which specifically punished female genital mutilations. In other words, the first part of the Law is being changed, while the second part is being held. In this matter, culture is described together in a religious sense and in no other way. Happily, religion is on the decline of our society as well as its proselytizing. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson was traced here. Of course, we are not to accept such things if our children's health is threatened, the health of children who are troubled. If we try to put this into some context - I was trying to think of something similar, something similar -- then we might think there would be a religious group and one of his customs would be cutting off the nipples of young boys. It's a similar operation. Nipples in men are not necessary unless they are of some beauty and a measure of delight. I have no doubt that such conduct would be condemned, the little ones showed the greatest sympathy, as well as that the parents would be punished for their current penalties. According to current law, it is already punished, forbidden. We can imagine a man attacking another man and cutting off his foreskin. It is clearly a crime of penalties that would have the authority to represent the courts. There are questions about the prosecution's charges or the initiatives to take such an offense on their own initiative. The next certain that the police will take such a case to examine for the charges they may face. I'm sure he will. And even if she became aware of her own actions, even if only because of the method used, now or the equipment used. It would be hard, as usual, to investigate such a offense if the person before the attack did not want to charge. There would be a problem with proof and possible approval and something like that. There is every chance that such a fraction would receive standard treatment in the justice system and the offender would eventually be judged and the penalty would be determined according to 218.g. If a mother accused a father of circumcise their young son, if that were to happen here, how would such a matter be handled today, under current legal conditions? I'm afraid the police have to investigate. Despite some understandable, or not understandable, excuses for religious reasons would be presented, it would be quite likely that the circumcision would eventually end up in a document of assault. The question of whether this is wearing a belt or a bracelet is appropriate, I think, is the answer. But this does not change, for there are other examples of such things in the law of punishment. I can't see that the bill is going to work, and the law, despite what I just mentioned, works. This particular method of assault is being set out only in this particular manner. I haven't really been swinging on this case. I simply object to being irreversible, unnecessary and bloody, in most cases painful and in some cases dangerous, surgery of children or babies. A Caucasian and unnecessary surgery on his genitals is not available to me, especially if you think that sometimes situations surrounding this operation are very uncomfortable. The knife may be rusted and may have been in the hands of an old man. I'd like to repeat what I said at the outset: I welcome the bill and the conversations that have developed, they've been useful. They have also been interesting. I look forward to the discussion that will no doubt develop over the next few weeks on the subject of this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u142	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a good speech. He asked some questions that have occurred earlier in the discussion, and we need to answer. I assume that when it comes to a committee, the committee will consider these questions carefully. One question is: Is such a law now proposed to be approved needed above a head, whether it is not already punishable to circumcise a boy? I've talked to some lawyers and asked about this. There's a difference of opinion about that, it's not clear. That is why it is very important to determine this when the committee has the case in place. I have also asked: "When the law was given to 2005, no law against the transcircuracy of girls and women, was it needed? When it comes to mutilation and assault, is it not always a violation of penal law? I'm going to throw this back to the senator and I'd like to have his opinion on this. Today, several members of the council have also referred to the penalty frame and to whether it is appropriate to make this matter otherwise. I would like to hear the Senator's opinion of the possible route. In fact, the bill as it is presented is made only one phrase change to modern law from 2005, a girl is turned into a child. That's the only change in current law. I wondered if it would be right to have another article that was true of only boys and then have another penalty frame against them, according to the senator's opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u143	A respectable president. I appreciate the Prime Minister's point of view. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, for her question. I think that when the law was changed in 2005, and the girls made a special entry, and this put into the law, they just didn't have the imagination or imagination to install the boys. I'd guess if I didn't study it. Of course, it's normal to put both sexes in there. Of course. I feel that this is a normal change, not having it in two paragraphs or two, and thus separating girls and boys. I agree completely with what it is now, that the genital organs of every child, whether a girl or a boy, should be in there on an equal and equal basis. Of course. That this is already a punishment? Hv. A senator tells two stories about whether they are. I think, as I mentioned in my speech somewhat in detail, it is already punishable. However, it is common to make a decision and set specific occurrences, specific fractures, and remove from the total frame. I could possibly give you an example in penalties, such as murder. Certain types and types of homicide are taken out of parentheses and put in another article. This is not new, and there are surely a number of other examples. Nothing will stop you from doing that. They're just making this all right, looking at it. It is in certain religious groups, as we know. That's when the projection's on it. So I don't think this is gonna stand in the way of the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u144	V.E.G. President. In response to his previous objection, a senator simply felt that he had forgotten to mention the boys in the 2005 law, it would have been natural for them to simply forbid such operations on the children of each generation. I feel that it is normal for myself to be independent of anything, whether we call surgery or otherwise, that unnecessary action on children is forbidden. The doctors'statements show that unless we want to allow religious leaders with no medical training to perform such operations at home, the doctors who are responsible for these operations will likely show that unless we want to allow them to take action at home. That could be the conclusion here at the General Assembly. A general body of elders is on the case. If these people have the expertise and work on certain commitments, not to harm them, we must listen to them. It must only be immoral in all respects to take unnecessary action on children, regardless of their type. I'd like to ask the senator, " If the circumcision of boys is not related in any way to religion, customs, or so, does the senator feel that this would have been banned in 2005? ' Because I don't think the boys forgot about 2005. I think this was done for conscious reasons. Now, with firm reasoning, strong reasoning, we do not allow the prohibition on child abuse to violate parental freedom. Is there any reason, then, for us to allow these actions to continue?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u145	A respectable president. It's good to know that the boys haven't forgotten 2005, that I didn't know. [[Up front.]] If that is true, I may be even more surprised and feel that the bill is getting the discussion and payment I hope will be, as it should be. Of course, we are not to make up for the intervening sex, not at all. That's ridiculous. The same is true of both sexes. I'd like to emphasize here at the end that this operation as it has been done - and then I'm not talking about surgery for medical purposes, which at times has been necessary to operate on boys, foreskins, I have no comment on it, and I don't have no comment on it, which is logical especially why it is - for religious reasons, it is most often unnecessary to the baby. This is irreversible. The child can't go back if he wants to go back later. It's painful - we've read and heard stories about children crying for days with pain - it's bloody, and most of all it's dangerous. We've heard a lot of stories about babies getting infections and even dying, stories from a world where these things happen.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u146	A respectable president. I've signed up for my bill, and I'm all for it. It took me only a fraction of a second to decide to support it completely. I had reasons why I'm not here. I started this discussion at lunchtime today, before an empty room, but then I've done some really good discussions about it. Hv. paritaprevir Guðmundur Andri Thorsson began to compare this matter to that of the tonsils. My first memory from being a three-year-old is about an anaesthetic mask put over my face to put me to sleep for my tonsils. My dread of it is still walled in my mind. This shows what the mind is like if I try to recall my best memory... then an incident that took place between two and three years later; then I was with my grandfather in the plain of the mirror, in the Elfjörður, in summer, and I got a fish. It's a good memory, and it's also in my mind, and yet the bad memory is always more fixed. There is no comparison of transcision to taking the tonsils. I was very sick, I was always sick, from birth until my tonsils were taken, and that caused some problems. My parents did it out of kindness, trying to heal me. Similarity between these two things is absurd. Also in terms of vaccinations and other things. I just wanted to get in there. I'm on the Board of General Education and there this case is going to take place; I'll follow it there. I'm totally supportive of this case and I'd like to thank the Prime Minister, Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, for setting it up.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u147	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir for setting up this matter. I think the debate here today and maybe not least the debate the bill has received in the community not only here in Iceland but in many places, it is clearly shown that it is needed. I'm glad the bill is presented here. I am not one of the transporters, and I must admit that I have not completely developed a view of whether or not I would support it. Though a nomose will do more than that I would support the bill. V.E.G. President. I think this discussion here today has been quite perturbing and perfunctory. I want to thank you for that, and in view of the day of praise, I want to commend. Congress members who have participated in the discussion feel that it was a topic. I think that's exactly how we're supposed to work in this good room. There is one thing, in fact, there are many things that I'm going to mention in particular that I think a little about in connection with this matter and, in fact, other matters too. I've made a council proposal for death support. Insets from sources, whether they are here or abroad, who say that such cases should not be on the program here, and who would like to use their power to take the matter off the program with democratic elected representatives in Iceland, that's something that scares me very, and that makes me say, "We're supposed to stand up and take over the discussion we want to take here, because that's what we're here to do. I cut this by the reviews and e-mails we've received about this bill. And I've also seen a review of a synopsis proposal for death support that goes the same way, that it's not a case that should be discussed in this fine hall. Now, I also have to admit that this discussion makes you know more than you ever wanted to know about this operation, which is under operation in men or young boys. By permission of the President, I'd like to read a story I found on the Web site, the Facebook website of the Earl of the Year's Daughter, the former senator and minister, under the headline of a circumcision story, by permission of the president: ▪ When I lived in the United States more than two decades ago, I was invited to the Festival of Canals to my Jewish friends. They had recently had a boy, and according to tradition, the boy was to be circumcised in the presence of witnesses on the eighth day. It was a great festival day, with family and friends invited to a banquet at noontime, where the table was bent by all kinds of refreshments. The ceremony itself was held in their living room, right next to the dining table. I admit that my friend and I, who were the only non - Jewish guests, were only anxious. Of course, on behalf of the little boy, we were also concerned about how we were doing in keeping the bullet (and breakfast) over all of this. But we thought that this was done for centuries and that the rabbi must know how to act. But then the rabbi came, and then we first passed out. He was very old, very vibrating and shaking. He certainly knew what to do, in fact, looked personally to have taken care of these activities for centuries. He set himself up at the banquet table, pulled out a huge pair of scissors, blessed the child in the back and back, and then stepped on the job. My friends and I breathed as the big scissors approached the tiny organ of the boy in the trembling hands of the aged religious leaders. The child's cutting cry and the smuting of his mother (who was not born into Judaism but had recently adopted her) is what I remember next. And then when the rabbi finishes the piece of work, the bloody piece of wisdom puts out of the boy, which looked like a fresh calamari, off at the table. Some time later, people were invited to do so. All we had to do was get over it, and I admit that the appetite wasn't great. After all, we had little time to eat because we were busy caring for the mother, who was completely inconsolable and convinced that the little boy would need psychological help all his life in order to get over this shock. In fact, that story made me think. If such a ceremony occurred in a house in Iceland, would it really be so that it would not conflict with Icelandic law? In view of today's debate, many have wanted to argue that such measures may be involved, especially when they are made of unskilled homes, are contrary to Icelandic legislation. I kind of have to admit that I hope so. I think it's a good thing for us to continue taking this bill, that it goes to a committee, and we'll have a perfunctory discussion there. I can see that even now there have been some comments. I assume that they will increase substantially when the case begins in a formal process and that it will be offered to express themselves specifically on the subject. In fact, I tend to believe that these things may not be permitted under Icelandic legislation, but given the fact that we are discussing them, we have to decide if they are. Now I know this story isn't necessarily, or I don't know it, but I imagine it, typical of this operation, but it's obvious that this sort of thing is known. It is known in the United States, a state that we often compare with in various matters. This might as well happen in Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Finland and maybe Iceland. If so, how would we react? I tend to agree that all of us are to listen to and respect the rights of our children. Even if we are here discussing very sensitive matters, religious freedoms, and traditions, it must still be that the right is the child and that the child can come to a certain age for himself if he wished for such an operation. I don't think I have it any further. I reiterate my gratitude to the first messenger of the proposal and to those who have participated in the discussion here today. I think she's been a good one.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u148	A respectable president. I want to agree with what. paritaprevir My Bryndís Haraldsdóttir's jealousy over the fact that today's discussion has been very pleasant and perfunctory. There are strange claims here, most of them. I also want to agree with the senator that the role of the Generalis is very important. Some have said exactly what and what to me. A senator: Why take this matter, why not the rest, and other things? We've got a lot of shit going on here every time. While this matter has received considerable attention, this is not the only case we are talking about here in the council halls. We senators need to be searching, and we need to be open and watch what is going on in other countries so that we can develop our own community. It is our job to draw complicated, difficult discussions into the conference hall. Our job is not merely to resolve adjustments on old law from counsellors. It's not our job. We're supposed to take the discussion and test ourselves. We're supposed to be open. Some have said here today that the matter needs to be developed. I agree with that. I have high hopes for the work ahead of us, that there we get from these items that we're wondering about, with the penalty frame, and whether it's already banned or how we'd react if this came up. I believe this is the right scene. I don't think there's much more magazine articles and districts on Facebook to keep us up in this discussion. The whole assembly is the right spot. I just want to say, for the most part, I'm very pleased with those who have spoken about it. I appreciate that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u149	A respectable president. I agree with that, and I admire it. A carrier is open to the fact that the bill may change, that it needs to be treated for the treatment ahead of the council. I also have an understanding of those who have come up here, pointing out this about the penalty frame, whether this is the right location. But I also agree with what I've heard here during the discussion -- I don't know where else this should be - on equality, on gender equality; when we're in one place, we forbid circumcision on girls' children, whether boys should be divorced. I agree with that. I feel that there are strong reasons to believe that it is the right thing to do in this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u150	V.E.G. President. When I began to consider this matter at the time, which was in the first head, there were some possibilities; it was a matter of child law, or penalties, and this article. We have the 2005 law on this particular operation on girls and women - I can say that there may be a physical difference between these actions, but both of them violate the child's rights and are irreversible, cause unnecessary pain and are potentially dangerous - and therefore I thought it was strange, when I began to wonder how best to do this, to create a special law which applies only to such operations on boys, and to have other forms of punishment, guilt, less years, or whatever. I'm not here to judge this case. I present the matter with others and for further development, because I trusted the Generals best to figure out these complex issues. These are legal factors, and there are all kinds of things, as many have noted; there we are in faith and philosophy and history and everything and emotions. It's hard. I'm open to good ideas, but I feel that there's something wrong with having another kind of punishment for wrongdoing against boys who are children. Children are children, and I feel that there is something wrong with other penalties for violations against girls before similar operations, even though their organs are different.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u151	A respectable president. I'll agree with that. A senator, therefore, has an understanding of why she has set this standard. V.E.G. At the time of the last term, I had at least one meeting with a group of senators who had the intention of being involved in that bill. If I recall correctly, there was a prohibition against referring to children's genitals in some way if there was no medical evidence available. Like what? A senator may well say, and it may have been in the discussion today, that this matter needs to develop; that this discussion is a good one, but it may need further development, both in the community and here in the council. It is also possible to wonder whether this bill, when it is presented, might be taken into consideration. It may also be very helpful to have this discussion about child care before it comes, because it will probably be even more complex, and it will be even more relevant - than the people in question - but the most important factor in this, I think - to deal with children's bodies in an irreverent way. I'm inclined to believe that that's the biggest argument in the case. But like all others who have expressed themselves here today, we come to realize that there is a very complex matter and every reason to give a certain amount of space for the discussion, to respect the opinions of anyone who knows how to express it. But the big thing is, I think it's also that the Allied Congress can't, and it's never to be accepted that other people say it's not a matter to be discussed in this room. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u152	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir for speaking this case; this is a very interesting case in many places. Here, there are conflicting views on the bounds of religious freedom and human rights, what we have, and may be used by law when it comes to these important factors we want to respect. I find it very important at the beginning of the discussion, which I find in general, that we are careful not to condemn customs or traditions in some way, but at the same time we must not fear to step in and say where we naturally believe that boundaries are drawn. I feel that this is a good agreement that we want to draw these boundaries for children and for the children's own self - determination rights, i.e. that children are not irreparable, especially in sensitive areas such as their genitals, without knowing and years of age, be made aware of their will. I have doubts about both the borders of punishment and where it belongs in the law. Does this belong in general penalties? What should the line of punishment be? Or should we approach the matter in another way? I believe it is important that the council and the committee take a good time to discuss this, when discussing the matter, where, and in what way these laws will be most appropriate. It would be very interesting, in view of the discussion that has been at the same time, on the affairs of the Intersex children, that we approach this matter in a more general way than is done here. I don't see in itself a difference between the two issues, and in view of the fact that there is a bill for a health minister who is involved in the affairs of the Intersex children - building a challenge to the actions of their genitals if there is no need - it might eventually be a good idea to combine these issues. We also need to be careful in our discussion, in the areas in which we build, that freedoms to different customs and practices are not being restricted at once, i.e. that we are primarily involved in this discussion by focusing on the child's protection, securing its rights, ensuring that the child at a later stage is granted access to such a decision. Of course, people have full freedom to religion and any custom or practice they follow. But it seems to me that there's a good contingency here in the chamber that it should draw the line, that it is quite clear that the child or the person can have the ability to say if such measures are taken. I'd like to hear it. A senator and an executive whether or not there has been a discussion in the preparation of this bill where to draw such a line, whether to drag it, or whether we should simply aim for such actions, if a person is to submit to it, to be prohibited until he is 18 years of age, until suicide. I have certain doubts about the entirely equalizing of boys and what we have actually called the genital hugs of girls' children. I think we need to look at this other view from men's perspective, consider the difference in nature between the two, but again with all due respect that the child's right in this case is to be protected, for it is certainly an irreversible operation. Circumcision is much less extensive and effective action on boys than on the genital ribs of girls' children. Perhaps it is good to remember that the attitudes of human society toward these two measures differ greatly. The United Nations'view of male circumcision and girl circumcision are very different. The United Nations is fighting violently, naturally, against girls' genitalist readings. But the last time I knew, they were still encouraging men's circumcision. I say: Men, and this is the prevention of AIDS, for example. I looked up that the World Health Organization still claims that this has a significant impact, in order to reduce the risk of transmission, that men are circumcised. I think we have to look at the differences in attitudes. That's why I think it's very natural and healthy to frame this discussion rather into that we're defending the right of the baby, the right to do it not to be an irreversible, unnecessary operation, any name called, whether it's taking action on the Intersex children or a boy's surgery. In view of the above, there is reason to distinguish between the two parts, the genital ribs of girls and women, and male circumcision. We know about customs in the United States, which we often compare with, since I think that much more men are circumcised and without me hearing this loud discussion there. I state that I support the thought that is involved and that I have found very interesting to go through it. When it first came out, I was very bickering about this matter, where the lines set in this matter, where the boundary between religious freedom and human rights is, between the child's interests and his parents'rights for custody. This is true in more ways. But when you try to approach a situation like this, it's easier to approach it based on the child's interests, its rights, the child's right to be protected from an irreversible operation that will not be possible to take sides. It's where I normally feel like I'm pulling the line. The law of justice, where they live in the law, is another matter of opinion. Do they belong in penalties or elsewhere, children's law, or where else? And then again: Is it normal to distinguish between male and female children? At first, I don't think it's unnatural to be examined very carefully. If we look at the World Health Organization's viewpoint and its emphasis on the United Nations, there is evidence to support the distinction. I've found a very positive attitude and support of the case here at the council, and I hope that the Intersex kids bill will receive comparable support here at the council when it's taken up. I hope it's the highest. A health minister immediately contributes the matter. I think they're exactly the same as the council should approach them in exactly the same way. Maybe this is a good thing to clear the way for the Intersex children's issues. I eagerly wait to see how the matter unfolds on the committee, but I stress that I believe that there is good reason for the council to take a good time and no matter what the setting we put it in. But I'm sure, in view of the fine talk we've been through, we'll be able to work this out.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u153	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The speaker's talk, as it were, is able to agree with many points presented in it. Many of us in this room have been wondering where to handle these matters. But I cut to the ear. A senator said he thought this should be handled in the same way as what we expected to discuss soon on the Intersex people and measures on the Intersex children. Speaking of physical differences, I also find it a little difficult to say that this much difference is between referring to the genitals of girls or boys. Yes, it is true that these female genital operations have been condemned by the international community and are, of course, very brutal. There is, however, some degree difference between them if they can be said to do so. The question, though, is also the question: Is it just because of this culture and policy in terms of what we feel is such a difference between the two? On the one hand, there are children who are born with clear sexual symptoms, and we say: It is not appropriate for this child's genital organs, but it can be done with this child. Intersex is born with blurred sexual organs, and yet it can be meant, or not, by the way we handle that matter - I must admit that I have some difficulty putting it in a box like that, saying that there's a big difference in nature, what's right and what's wrong in that subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u154	Thank you. A senator resists. I'm saying, as it is, I feel that this is a matter of opinion that we need to consider. Clearly, the viewpoint of international institutions on these two measures is very different. I also, with all due respect, think that the consequences are quite different, at any rate, when we talk about genitalist readings on girls or women in their worst form; that's a complete sky, and between. There may be some evidence that the action is somehow the same. Perhaps the discussion is such as the question of whether a law or a punishment is to be different, unnecessary if we assume that such actions are not performed unless the individual is intelligent and is able to express his opinion on them. If so, such an operation would not be to be performed without consent. That's where the dog might be buried. Of course, tradition and habits, religion to some extent, have some effect on this, but I look at what you experience in discussions with men in the United States, since these are very common - I think I have stumbled on 70% of the men there, as it were, that they were circumcised, and there the discussion is not in the way of having some major offense against them. I feel that the red thread is the child, the person involved, has something to say on the subject, and that there is no irreversible operation without consent. [[The president calls.]] The question, then, is how much age a person must have reached in order to agree with such a person.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u155	A respectable president. I agree with what. Senator. I think the question is primarily about the child's rights, that there are no irreverent measures on children when asked for them. This will help you to answer the question about the time in which you can aim. Is it when children stop being children at 18 years of age? Or younger? When is the child willing to make such decisions? Then maybe I'm talking so well. In this discussion, I wondered if it would affect us if we were discussing the Intersex bill and the actions of children's genitals, not especially in the discussion of surgery and therefore not specifically in the discussion of religion and tradition, but that we are talking about the irreversible operation of a child. Would all of us feel much better, and would we agree much more? So the question is, if we all agree that we cannot, what do we do? In what way do we forbid it? So, what's the line of punishment? It is quite confusing when a religion is involved. We are a multicultural society, and I expect most of us will agree that we want to stay that way and respect the beliefs and traditions of other groups, but at the same time we want the people to meet the Icelandic law.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u156	Mr. President. Is that not the very essence of a matter? Maybe we don't have to stay very long with a discussion about the penalty frame, whether it should be different and how much the difference should be, but exactly where we draw the line, when it should be permitted to check with such actions. There is an interesting setting of elimination to speak out from the interests of the intersex children, how early the possible intervention with the child's approval. Would it have to be an 18 - year - old, or could it happen sooner? I think there might be some great interests there because it could happen sooner. But it is a very interesting question: When is a child made up of enough steel, come to his senses and years, in order to make as much an important decision, irreversible decision as it is, with the exception of counseling, of course? Now, I'm not going to even decide what to do or what to correct in any form, far from that; of course, it's a much larger decision. [[The president calls.]] But it is important that your child is fully informed about the effects and consequences, etc. This could be a very interesting discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u157	V.E.G. President. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson asked if he had been planning to draw a line on a rating limit to the bill. The person here wondered about it but decided to leave such a discussion behind. We have another kind of law, an entire jungle. When we make such an opinion, it is important to have another frame and compare it so that the law of law is in harmony with those things. I wanted to be careful to mention a number of dates. As I've said before, the line of punishment is also something that in itself I can't determine, that six years is the right time. That's why it's so important for the council to look at it. I'm wondering about Iceland's constitution, that we're all equal to law, regardless of gender, race, or anything like that. Would we legally get up with various punishments for the comparable actions of girls and boys? I'm more legal than anyone. I have to decide. It must definitely go to the Constitution and other laws to recognize it. I'd like to say about these international institutions that have not yet exerted themselves, or few, on the grounds of banning male circumcision. I've been thinking about it, and I think I know the answer. I think it's because of religion. Such a prohibition against religious freedom is still claimed. [[The president calls.]] But I think human rights lawyers have proved that they are not. I think we are regular pioneers in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u158	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. These are interesting questions raised by the senator. I'll say the same thing as what. Senator, I need to know if there was a difference between us and a legal person. But it must be an assessment of the seriousness and consequences of the act, not of discrimination on the basis of gender. I don't see it that way but because of the seriousness and consequences. That is what I was trying to approach in my speech, that there might be a difference, not just by customs, customs, or religion, but also by consequences. The most interesting thing in this discussion is to remove all discussions about religion, customs, and habits and to draw closer to the discussion from the Human Rights Department. It was the easiest thing to do when I started thinking about this matter from all the different dimensions that would certainly be possible to consider from; the different friends certainly make the matter interesting, but in the end, we must stop at the child's interests and rights. That's where we must draw the line. We're defending the child's rights. Then there is another question: At which point we are ready to say: Here, the child is mature enough and steeled to decide whether or not he will undergo such an operation, regardless of its roots.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u159	A respectable president. I'd like to sit down and take a moment's talk. A senator previously requested support from international institutions in such operations on boys. For example, he said that there is a protection against HIV infection, that the World Health Organization has identified it. I have read the studies and reference to the Children's History, which is an accepted legal organization that fights for the rights and protection of children, of a 2013 study carried out by 38 doctors, who flout these claims. They say that the research done in Africa is highly incomplete. I'm afraid we need to take a closer look. Parents are always doing what they think is best for their children. When parents are told: You have to do this, it's cleaner, you have to protect your child from disease, the parent thinks it's doing good things. Therefore, we need to review these medical items, examine new research, and listen to lawyers, human rights specialists, doctors, and nurses who know this very well. [[The president calls.]] Don't give me that shit.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u160	Mr. President. I'll agree with this. I pointed to this difference in the approach of the international organization to show that attitudes toward these two objects are very different, whether right or wrong. In general, though, it seems that there is a sharp difference between attitudes toward boy circumcision and genital readings of girls' children. This is true of these international organizations too. Of course, it is important that such reasoning be based on sound scientific reasoning. As we approach the discussion here, it may not be of major importance either. If we say that we are defending the child's interests, this decision is not made until the individual is older or older if he or she is changing. As a result, it is the subject of self - authority to investigate evidence in and against it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u161	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson for his contribution to this matter. I would like to ask, " Does he not agree with me in such a way that this matter is not a religion? ' It's actually a question of whether a child can be violent. Then there is a question of when a child will stop being a child and grow up. I'd say that's about 18 years old. It's a little strange that I think that every decision-making thing should be, like, about 18 years old, that people would be grown up, and there wouldn't be any difference between whether to buy or not to buy alcohol or to do the other thing or to do this -- all of it versus 18 years, it's simple. In terms of sexual correction, I would say that the question is always when parents can intervene. I believe that parents must always step in if they look like they're harmed. If this is the case, your child may be harmed by the fact that nothing is being done. Or not. I'm asking why. A senator if he doesn't agree with me on this. Two procedures appear to be used, and both are bad, other visions worse, and, in effect, indistinguishable. I ask him if he would agree with me that this is simply a matter of violence to children that should not be tolerated.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u162	Thank you. A senator resists. I think we'll always agree on this. We are defending the child's interests, defending it from irresistibly action for any reason, whether it is religion, customs, or habits, the faith of parents in health. I wholeheartedly support the approach that we discuss these matters according to the child's interests and that this is the self - determination right of an old and mature person to make such a decision. With the Intersex speech, I may not agree with the highest degree. A senator on the right of parents to make a decision. Is it not the same as the parents'decision in this discussion? Children or individuals have not been affected by the wrong choice, the parents'decision to intervene and correct matters. I think the child needs to be involved in that decision-making process so that he can describe what he chooses. This is where I'm talking about sexuality. It is none other than the individual himself who can make any doubt as to how to correct matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u163	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answers. He misunderstood me in one way: In the matter of sexual correction, I was merely thinking that medical intervention would be needed, not that it was in the power of parents, but that what the doctor said would be involved because a child was in danger. Parents need to be agreed on in such cases. I've had quite a number of operations, both small and large. Nothing's easy. It is quite amazing that it is possible in the name of religion - religion is written only by us humans - to force a child into an irreversible operation simply because religion says so. I could never agree to that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u164	A respectable president. I think that's where we senators and I wholeheartedly agree. We want to make sure that a child can be forced when he has no sense to determine what is happening over his head. We're always defending the child's interests. When it comes to the Intersex debate and sexuality and what's medically necessary, I make it clear that I'm not much of a specialist in these matters. But for example, I understand the fear of the interests of gay people. It is certainly the stated purpose of such people as the Land Hospital not to perform irreversible measures that are not absolutely medically necessary. Nevertheless, the surgeon's office refuses to comment on such actions or policies. [[The president calls.]] People fear that these things are not clear enough, that rules are not clear enough, and that there may be some unnecessary action to take. Therefore, it is very good to discuss these matters together. In the end, it might be in accordance with legislation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u165	Mr. President. I'm a messenger of the case. I'm going to go over the way I approach it, whatever it is that justifies it to me. I have also been listening to the viewpoints that have been presented in discussions in the community, but this has been a very good discussion. There is a need to go through them a little bit, but many good viewpoints have developed that need to be taken into consideration. I'm going to go through how I have set my priorities and will continue to do so. If religion violates the rights of children, I think, in view of the interpretations I have received regarding the United Nations Children's Covenant, which is legalized in Iceland, that we are committed to being members of Congress to give the child protection. If anyone's going to tell me that this is not a covenant, I'd like to hear some argument there. While I am confident that this would be against the children's covenant, I am bound by law to enforce it and to give the infant the benefit of the doubt. The Court's declaration of the Children's Agent and Healthcare Professionals in the Northern states on the 2013 decision of young boys is made, with the permission of a president: ▪ The circumcision of young children violates the basic rights of children according to the United Nations Children's Convention. Go on, with President's permission: A similar procedure carries the risk of infection and other problems. Under this, the U.S. Children's Office, the chairman of Children's Association of Child Welfare in Iceland, the Director of Child Welfare at the Ring's Children's Hospital, and the Director of Child Welfare's Hospital. The carer of children who are to ensure that we follow the United Nations Children's Convention and the principal members who have devoted their lives to caring for the physical health of children agree on these matters. No one can overlook this. Let us continue to listen to other viewpoints. That's me today. This means more than anything I've heard in the discussion. But I'm gonna go over it. People weigh salt on the mind that on the one hand, we are talking about the rights of a child and their own decision regarding his body, not having to undergo irreversible action, or religious rights, that a certain religious letter or rules to follow should be valid. It's under control. Then a few things matter. First, imagine that these religious issues were not part of the picture. What, then, was the subject? This would be a discussion of the child's right to avoid unnecessary irreversible action. That would be what we were before. And I don't see anything that could weigh more than that, tradition wouldn't get it. It is a religious tradition, and it is found as a letter in some religious writings. Then we look to what is to be weighed. Then one asks, " Is it necessary to do this with infants? ' In some religions, this is not an unconvincing requirement. In some religious groups that believe in a matter of religious tradition - or traditions that have infiltrated the faith, no matter what - this is not an undisputed requirement to do this with boyhoodless children. Young men up to 18 years of age can make that decision for themselves later. This brings us to the point where the self - determination right of children under the age of 18 will always be richer and richer. At some point, we might find that the child has established this site and is developing the ability to make a conscious, informed decision to undergo irreversible changes in his body. We can all agree that we allow such things, whether by putting holes in our ears or by expanding them or by getting a tattoo, we may be able to take them away now, perhaps not all but some of them. But it is not to say hello in a religious book that speaks of a covenant with God and of that covenant that the existence and prosperity of the group of those who believe in that covenant are based. Without the covenant, that religious group will not continue successfully; it will not fulfill the commandment, and God will not fulfill his covenant, his promise to the religious group. This is something we have to watch. We must realize that this is something a certain religious group looks to, but does it outweigh if it is irreversible? But ask us: Is it irreversible? Is it irreversible to circumcise male children on the eighth day to fulfill the covenant? We are faced with the fact that certain religious groups that hear under the religious letter that do not fulfill that part of the covenant speak of a change to occur. That's where we are. Do laws and rules, as they have developed in Western democracies and protection of civil rights, outweigh that? Before Western democracies began to develop, the religious letter became irreverent, but it began to be replaced by laws and regulations in the countries. For us in this room, basic rights are the most important, such as The privacy of the body. There are religious groups who point out that this does not have to be done, that there is no need to be circumcised, i.e. Religions that advocate this religious letter can do so differently. There are plenty of others in the religious letter that is not being fulfilled. Thus, the book of faith speaks of the covenant with God, in order to ensure protection and prosperity, as 613 laws that must be fulfilled. These are not just the Ten Commandments. If you do not meet one of these rules, it does not matter whether you meet all the others or not, i.e. Thou hast broken the covenant by breaking one law; neither hast thou the covenant. Over the years, those who have insisted that we meet these 613 conditions of the covenant have been being removed from that way. Today, none of these religious groups demand that a witch not be beaten to death. Or if their son is wicked and disobedient, which is in violation of one of these ten commandments of Móse, let him be brought to the elders, and let them all beat him with stones to death. They have been removed from the covenant. How much less keep the sabbath day holy? they shall be beaten with stones. It's been changed a long time ago. That's what matters. They're saying to us: You can't do this because then you're saying, "We can't live in your country, because we have an irreverent covenant with our god. Whether he's irreverent is important. Then we come to another: No, one third of mankind does not have an irreversible covenant with his God to do this with boyless children. Then we've got a hell of a lot less human beings. It has also been mentioned in the discussion that there are so many. I don't think it's appropriate to weigh the question seriously about how many people do things that we don't like, something that we think violates people's human rights. But that's the viewpoint taken up in the discussion. This view changes because these are not exact requirements. These same religious groups have slowly turned aside from some of these requirements because we began moving into the rights community, bringing us into a civil rights society, into a society where it is not necessary to have such a covenant to keep society going and to keep it together. We have become much more mature as a community. How much this can cost the child, a part of the discussion. How much pain can that be? Thus, the discussion has suggested that women should not be compared with men's circumcision, it is like comparing male circumcision with putting a hole in their ears, irreversible hole, etc. The discussion has been about how painful it can be. These infants cannot be prevented. It matters. Today, we know that just spanking children can have dramatic consequences. And the dramatic consequences of eating can have enormous serious psychological and psychological consequences in the lives of children. We know that. We must take this into account. What can this be painful when an operation occurs and through life, some suffer? That's where the discussion is. How painful can this be? How much can this impair the quality of your children? Is it all right to do so with boyly speech, as painful or as impaired in quality of life as with women's circumcision? Yeah, there's a point difference. But that's not a difference. There's a lot of difference, but not a difference. It causes pain, it impairs quality of life. The right of self - determination is taken from the children. What an interesting discussion that is! Nothing new in itself, that men are changing the book of the law, and that they update the rights. Abraham originally made the covenant with Jehovah that Jahve children should be circumcised, part of the covenant. Then comes Móses one day, goes up into the mountain, and comes down with a new constitution, made into stone. Móse was the constitutionr, paying attention. Did he do it alone? No, he spoke to his tribe and listened to a variety of viewpoints, and then he said, "Can we get along on something? That this is what we're going to do? He was able to sum this up in ten main points. Honor thy father and thy mother one thing, that they should be beaten with stones to death. Then it's going to go on. Later, when humans have lived by this practice and applied these rules and this law in order to ensure protection and victory in wars, etc. And well will come from the Almighty, and some man cometh who is well read in the scripture, saying that he hath fulfilled the law. I can tell you how it is, etc. People start following him. Imagine how the Pharisees of that time viewed that idea! A person who starts to convince people not to observe customs and rules, a man who comes up with a new interpretation of the Law convinces people to compromise. Following the Law was, in fact, a national security policy. Keeping the covenant with God was a matter of Israel's national security. It's a national security issue. If we put ourselves in their place, what it has been about the fact that a man like Jesús comes along and has the effect on people to stop following the Law. It's an old story and a new one. When it comes to right protection, we are in a very good place with our community. But we can keep going. There are threats as a ghost. But in this matter, as I've traced, I haven't heard anything that outweighs the basic rights of the baby.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u166	A respectable president. I just wanted to add a little something. paritaprevir Jón Þór, son of Ólafsson, reminded me of an especially vivid episode in the movie story that parallels his presentation when Móses ascended the mountain. There Mel Brooks used the role of Móses in the photograph History of the World: Part I or: World History: The first part, coming from the mountain with three tablets of stone, said that God gave him these fifteen, but he lost the only tablet of stone that broke, and corrected himself: Ten commandments. That's how we sat down with ten, not fifteen. Perhaps that could explain the comparison that the senator made that these laws that we are given have been reduced, perhaps by surprise and perhaps on purpose. I just wanted to use this example to illustrate how strange and ridiculous it is that we make a point of making certain moral commandments that definitely fail, morally, as society develops. But for some reason, we face certain problems and stop following these commandments but still follow the others, even though it has become highly ethically strange and contradicted by some of our declarations of human rights. In this case, I think Mel Brooks just dropped one more tablet of stone, and we should just stick with the remaining five.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u167	Mr. President. It's 613. According to the historical record, Móses put together a fundamental part of these ten men. At any rate, he raised these things. This is naturally understandable. When it comes to keeping a group of people together, they try to set a common value, encourage or promote a set set set values, whether or not, by stoning people to death or by less effective measures as we have developed. It is especially understandable if they believe that if this is not done in time, but most people believe that if it is not done, you will have decided to break up the covenant with a God necessary for your success and eternal security. We must enter the world of people who believe this and respect their view. This does not mean that the view should outweigh when we make a decision. But it is very important to realize that there is a point of view and, at the same time, look for a change of viewpoint, i.e. how well these 613 rules must be fulfilled, and one of them is circumcised eight days of old boys. This told me to a Israelite, who was naturally called into the army as it is in Israel, and when he was with his companions in the army to protect one settlement and it was on, I don't remember what the weekend is, is it not Saturday? Yeah, Saturday's today. Then there were Fundamentalists who stoned the soldiers for working on the weekend. [[The president calls.]] There are a lot of differences in how far people are ready to keep all these 613 rules.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u168	V.E.G. President. I thank the speaker for his talk and for his discussion. We'll discuss a bill of a change in general penal law and we'll go out in a wide range, of course, this is a big deal. I've been wondering what my position on the bill is. I have great respect for the faith and the ancient and the things people respect themselves, and I respect the respect of others. Judaism is widely quoted, and since this is done to young boys, they are circumcised. I don't know if I respect that event. There's a lot of intervention in young children's lives. I'm against babies being circumcised for these reasons. But I think it's a big deal, I think this bill is really steep, it's punishment up to six years. What, then, will happen to those who want their children circumcised? Does it not, then, simply go into some garage or decapitation and have it done in unofficial places, with all the consequences? I'd like to ask the senator to go to this block on the bill. And maybe, too: I wasn't quite clear in my speech how a senator feels about this bill per se. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u169	Mr. President. My analysis of the bill is that, I'm on it because I think we should accept the bill, at least all the evidence I've heard so far. At the same time, we should listen to all views. That's exactly what the Pirantars do, take a stand in the light of information. Then there is another article in our core policy that says that we look at the matter but not who it is its carrier, look at the matter objectively, if it is in the spirit of our base policy, which is to protect civil rights and democracies. So also in our core policy, we should change our mind in view of new information and information. Pirates are always wide open for new information. The basic policy tells us to protect and promote civil rights, and in this case, I feel that it outweighs and does not feel that religious rights are so that humans can't do it without breaking the treaty in the end. They have been replaced by the covenant. That's why I'm looking for it. Then this will always be an irreversible intervention in the individual's autonomy and the child's protection on top. But as I say, that's why I'm working on what basis it is that I take this stand. Because I am absolutely open to all views. As a senator hears, I am just looking at all the views. The reason why I'm going on the religious story, etc. is that people take their stand and opposition to the bill on the basis of that conviction.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u170	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for the answer. I can totally agree, I can't accept that this is done just by religious convictions. It doesn't convince me. I completely agree with the senator in that. On the other hand, a person has heard that young members of a religious community who engage in this circumcision are beginning to think: Are we doing the right thing? Is this necessary? So it's beginning to fry in these communities too, whether it's really right to be in the practice of circumcision. That's why I ask myself and the senator, " I need this no longer? ' Doesn't the matter have to grow a little longer? We don't have to take further discussions, think about this better, even in the light of what I came into before -- we don't know if I've got an answer from the senator about it - if this bill goes through, if some kind of garage operation is going through, as I mentioned. If the bill is approved, don't the senator fear it?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u171	President. Regarding giving this time: My position depends on whether it defended the rights of the child who is already protected by our laws and regulations. If it's spent in our own laws and rules, and the Children's agent has said, the agent of the children in the North countries, I consider it my legal duty to fulfill this child's rights. That's how I watch it. I can't see I can't overlook that. If there is some vague talk still going on, I think it might take a little longer for people to form a stand, and so do I. But the information I have today from a child's agent tells me that this is a legal right of the child in Iceland, the child's rights to the United Nations, which are legalized in Iceland, and therefore I must follow them. What was the second question again? I don't remember. [[Up front.]] Yeah, right, the garage surgery. We know it could happen. But then there is a six - year prison punishment. That's one of the reasons why I am that way. But it can be a defect too. Meaning the police have much more extensive surveillance and research clearances. When something is being carried out, believes and believes that it protects the child's basic rights and puts it in first place, and so in law, it will eventually be informed. That's right, let's say, it's a great chance that if you're going to participate in Icelandic society, swimming and I don't know what and what, it would eventually come out. But I totally understand the fear of this view. This, of course, is a view that we need to consider. The same is natural, as is true of Jehovah's Witnesses. Those who accept a blood transfusion there do not know whether it is universal in Iceland, but in some parts of the world and in judicial cases it has fallen, are an excommunicator from his community because for them it is unrecognizable. However, judgment has fallen that blood should still be given to a child.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u172	Mr. President. I want to start by saying I think that what. I'm sure the 1st transporter and those who carry this bill with her didn't expect the bill to cause such a wolf in Icelandic society or international. I have respect for what's happened. An evangelizer, in what way she has held this matter and made it wise and balanced. As noted in the discussion today and, indeed, in the history of a debate. 1 The situation is not simple, and a person's feelings are stirred up. My opinion is that the child's well - being must always be in first place. I don't think it can be justified that faith stands in the way of a child's well - being. We've been discussing this from a variety of perspectives. We've been discussing this from medical guidelines on the grounds of irreversible surgery and its implications, how serious this intervention is, how painful and so forth the streets. Then religious involvement is inevitable. Some would like to talk about religious freedom and freedom from congregations or religious groups in order to enforce their writers, who are of many different kinds. I think we should be very careful about identifying and guiding people as to what they believe and what they don't believe. I think we should be careful not to go there and begin to define and clear people's beliefs in some way and to say what is right and what is wrong in them. This does not change the fact that various religious groups, and most I think, that is, by nature, believe that what they believe is the right thing. They want to defend their right to believe what they believe. Interestingly, when this issue was being discussed, members of religious and religious groups seemed to take it to heart, and not only those of this practice that we address here, the circumcision of male children, but also other religious leaders, both domestic and foreign, and warned very strongly that the Allied members of the Council would take this matter into consideration and deportation, including the bishop of Iceland, who comes before the National Church, the State Church, with a total of 70-80% of Iceland. She felt that it was unwise to make such an effort. Thus, it is inevitable that these items get mixed in some way. Since then, the issue of circumcision has been discussed as to whether there would be any merit. Here, there's a cross - references to a health care provider in Iceland who are very united in saying that this is not an justified operation. It has also been referred to by health care providers, or perhaps mainly doctors, in Western countries, in Europe, that this is not a reasonable procedure. Again, the recommendation of doctors, especially in the United States, has been referred to as wise, reducing the risk of certain diseases. It was previously noted that the United Nations and international health institutions believe that this has many advantages, let's say. You will ask yourself, " When such conflicting views come from health - class groups around the world, could it be a matter of what is happening in each country and possibly of the religion of the health professionals? ' It is inevitable, therefore, that these encounters together. Of course, we are also talking about the child's basic rights, not to take any action or intervention in his body, in this case we are referring to the genital organs of boys and also to women's surgery. That must be our primary objective, and I think that most of us feel that such an intervention is not justified. This has also been linked only to a discussion of operations on individuals with uncertain gender characteristics, Intersex children. In many places the first reaction for a long time has been to change, but it is likely that action must be taken in order to be completely clear to any kind of child. We know that many such actions have caused great damage and damage, for it is now that life and the body and biology are so strange that humans cannot foresee everything. So there are many things that can happen at a later stage that can result in much more harm than good will be achieved by this intervention. We're messing with our genitals. This is not done for religious reasons. Of course, this is done with a good mind, but sometimes it has resulted in disaster. How should we deal with such problems when they all mix? Should we go along with the way the bill assumes and put it into penalties so that we will turn this intervention into a life of indiscriminate children, girls, and boys, a punishment? A significant discussion of the circumcision of women has been made on the subject of whether it is comparable to action in some sense. There are many words. In all cases, irreversible or systemic surgery is involved. A woman's circumcision can be in many ways, as the above discussion has shown. More often than not, though, the purpose of circumcision is to deprive women of the potential for sexual pleasure. This is the goal of those who are quite serious. The objective of male circumcision is not usually that. I wondered, " Is the approach really true, putting it this way in the penal code? ' I don't know, I haven't really developed an opinion of it. I believe in itself that what we have, because we think we are a state that guards and fights for human rights - we are to do and we are to do it - that human rights cannot be chosen. There must be some fundamental prince we must follow. And that's what we're supposed to do. Nevertheless, because of the way this situation affects us, the question is, How can we get the best results? I think we're all agreed that we don't want to do this. Sometimes it is said that a rod is a good one, and we like to talk about criminalism or a policy of reform, which is about trying to help people understand what is right and what is wrong and what is taught and presented and presented. In this case, I think that it would not be possible that we would provide some kind of manual on what is right and what is wrong in these matters. But so I reiterate that I think we should be careful of all this discussion, becoming overly involved in religion itself. I think we should try to approach this fully in the way that this is an intervention in the lives of individuals who are not present. It is against basic human rights. If a person wants to be circumcised in the late stages of his life, the question is, Will that not be permitted? We allow all kinds of action on our own. Some feel that our hard work in the Western world is having to change our bodies by means of a variety of measures that would not be absolutely necessary, but they are made. It must then be in the power of each individual. Regarding the question of whether we should define in any way that a child who is five, six, ten years old can make such decisions about how to operate a male child we're talking about, I don't think so. I think we're supposed to focus on what's a child's law. We know that a child is influenced by his parents and that he is a community. I don't think there would ever be any independent will of the child to discuss in this context. I don't think it's wise to go that way. But first of all, I say, this kind of irrefutable action should not be passed on in Iceland. We need to discuss it well. We need to ask ourselves exactly how we will put it in the law so that it will be done as best we can. But just so I reiterate it, because there's a chance that this could go over to the religious road, which I believe we should be very determined that it doesn't - I notice that it will. A messenger has been very much alone in speaking about this matter apart from religion. That's how we're supposed to approach it. At the same time, however, we need to realize that this is true of many people. It is very difficult to tell people what is right or what is wrong to believe.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u173	Mr. President. We here discuss a bill to correct a change in the general penal law that has been called in the general discussion of the circumcision bill. It is true that in many respects the attention this issue has received here and abroad has been observed at least every year. At the same time, we may have come to realize that here the people of Iceland, the Allied Council, could take a very important step, as they have done in certain human rights. How valuable it could be that the Icelandic Parliament, or General Assembly of Iceland, had guidance there, as we have done in some other matters! You should state at the beginning of the discussion that I am one of the transporters of the bill. I want to approach this issue first and last, using the Human Rights Department and the Health Care Department, i.e. We are not that kind of society that makes unnecessary and irreversible actions against people, especially if they can't be asked permission. That's just not how they do it here in Iceland. It would, for example. I think it's a sheep thing today if it had ever been in Iceland's religion or religion here in Iceland that all children should be removed from their necks and we would still be doing it for some religious reason. Of course we would not. We'd revise it because there is no scientific foundation behind it, that it has some sense of reason in it. In exactly the same way, we're in some ways, I'm not going to say maybe under a lot of pressure, but there's been some reasoning that it's so health issues. I'm going to let me say this here: It's wrong that there's something healthy about cutting a part of a baby. It's not like that. It can be if there's any harm, but it's not right there. The reasoning that has been presented is for example that this blessed boy would defend him for foreskin cancer. ◯Dah, someone would say - I'm sorry, Mr. President, it's unconventional speech on a speaker's chair. Of course, a person does not have cancer of an organ that he does not have. To use it as a reason to keep this going is ridiculous. On the same basis, we would wonder if we would remove some of the essential organs that could lead to cancer. Would we ever agree? Of course not! That would never happen. We'll discuss this first and last as human rights matter. It is important that we think about it that way. We are not talking about the inability of young men to decide when they are mature enough to ask for this kind of operation. They are completely allowed if they want to do so for religious reasons. But we're defending the right children. The United Nations Children's Covenant is absolutely clear in this regard. The American Children's Hospital has taken a very decisive stand on this matter, i.e. They don't consider any medical grounds to perform the circumcision of boys unless there are some that we call medical indications to do so. It's rarely. During an official discussion in Iceland, many doctors have been quite prominent in the discussion. It may be appropriate to mention that some 500 Icelandic doctors have signed a declaration that they agree or agree with the contents of this bill. Here in our discussion today, there's been a little debate as to whether the line of punishment mentioned in the bill is normal. There's also been a little debate about whether there could be some sort of degree difference between these crimes, because we're already, and we'll figure it out, then. Councilmen, defined as a crime in the case of girls or virgin children, have been defined as "a crime. " So you might wonder, " Is it really possible to define an operation on boys as serious as a crime, but like a whale? ' paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson came in back then, it's just a point difference, it's not a difference of nature. This is a phase difference, and it's important to keep that in mind. I don't want to minimize the importance of religion. Not at all. Men below, they can look up council talks that I've been holding on to. I think freedom of religion is one of the most important things that people have and on, but faith must never be the premise that it harms some individuals. It's not supposed to be the right. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Ólafsson also came in earlier that there are religions where people refuse blood transfusions. Of course, when it comes to those decisions, it has been judged that parents are not allowed to refuse blood transfusions for their children if rejecting blood transfusions can cause the child to die. It's just not like that. It has also been noted in the discussion whether this means that in the case of other medical procedures, other medical procedures, or other interventions to our children, any rights of the child should always be valid for the future decision. There's a fundamental difference, huh? Senators. When we talk about action, let's say immunization of children, let's say action that reduces the risk of children who have been chronically infected in the middle ear and others who get such infections again, behind critical tests. That's the difference. That is why it is very important to remember that these two things cannot be compared. It's just not possible. The children must always benefit from the doubt. There are religious groups and communities in many parts of the world who use man - made circumcision. In some parts of Africa, there are examples of these acts of dedication at 16 years of age and occasionally at 18 years of age, i.e. These boys have become themselves. It's a fundamental difference again. There is no denying that, in some cases, it can be of particular importance to perform an circumcision on a boy in health care, but that is, as shown in the case Kristján Óskarsson, a child surgeon, on the TV the other day, perhaps half to one case here in Iceland. That's not more than that, it's very rare. The operation is not comparable to surgery on girls' children. Of course she's not. True, there are several ways of handling girls, but it can't be said to be completely comparable. Of course, it can be discussed in seconds. ...and the Board of Education whether to make any difference. I wouldn't see anything wrong with men accepting that discussion on the committee. I would also stress that this information would be given from a previous source. the welfare committee on the case, i.e. A global and educational committee would get such information from a welfare committee. In this discussion, people have also wondered if the Intersex people are affected by this discussion or whether the discussion would make it impossible to perform action on the Intersex population. Let's figure it out, huh? Councilmen, that the legal battle of the intersex population is in exactly the same direction, i.e. trying to prevent the action of these children who are born with what has been called a sex or an unwanted sexual traits and that they get to decide for themselves when they know and develop to see if the sex they eventually become is a boy or a girl, or if they just keep being an intersex, which is entirely an alternative. Children's managers in the North have been very supportive of them, including the U.S.A. An agent of children in Iceland, that we put this in law here in Iceland. That is exactly where the United Nations Children's Covenant was quoted. It still promotes the importance of human rights because these measures are irreversible. That's why we always end up there. We, however, may be able to do so in foibles, for it is a foreign word that must not be used in the public assembly, but we may be a bit steeped in foreign discussions from abroad and everywhere we are walking on the rights of our children and the right religion, etc., but it is not. In Iceland, we put down some physical punishment a long time ago, there's probably some lawyers in the room who can tell me how long ago we've been doing it. It's been a long time since, I guess, some 100 years or more. We are not in this place where a community is going to walk that way. I think we should seriously examine this case. I suppose this will be discussed seriously on the council committee. It may be that a party arose that could not be seen by tourists. We discussed this bill in preparation for a number of such friendships, but this led to its conclusion. I'm not apostate, because in any way I discuss it on the Committee whether there can be a change in the law, but the prince's rights, the rights of children, the human rights of children must always be the strongest.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u174	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For his speech, Þór Gunnarsson's Ólafur must have been given knowledge and good knowledge, as you would expect. I cut by one in a speech of two. A senator who raised my joy. He somehow put it this way when he discussed these matters and interventions that would be irreversible or unsuspected: We are just not such a community. That made me happy. I agree with that. I don't think we want to be that kind of community. I want less, not a particular whisk. A senator also thinks that it is not long since we did things that were not beautiful. These include sterilization surgery without knowing one's knowledge. There has been significant talk of an intersex child in the past. I won't say exactly how it is today, but there have been things that we wouldn't or won't accept now. We've had some quiet talk about it. I say this now and speak to all of us, I'm not speaking anything specifically to what. An agent, that we also need to be careful in all our discussions that we also remember that at times in the past, we have been weak on the ice, just to be told.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u175	A respectable president. It's good to be glad. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson. It is true that his case was correct, of course, there are aspects of this nation's history and even the past of our religion that we are not particularly proud of. When I speak of our religion, I refer to the National Church, which is, in fact, a disagreement on whether to be a national church. That's different now. Nevertheless, as a community, we have been successful in reevaluating our position, reevaluating the down - down ideas we may have had in the past, in the light of new knowledge, and in the light of new social attitudes. There's a small chance that progress in society would be reduced if we never did, that we never revised our minds, that we never looked at the overscind, no, we've always done it this way. We've always done things like that, in itself, it's extremely dangerous because it actually sets or can put the brakes on any progress. But I really think that what the senator was pushing to us transporters, and I take it completely to myself, was to treat those who have other opinions and ideas other than us. I'll be the first to agree with that with what. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u176	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. Councilmen for a very objective and informative discussion today. It sounds to me that members of Congress focus primarily on human rights. Most of us have agreed on that, I think, as I understood the talks, that the prohibition against circumcision would not conflict with religious freedom. We've had a lot of people wonder about today's best move. Whether the bill as it is presented for its purpose, whether it is possible to place such a prohibition into other laws. And then we've discussed excusing laws and other forms of violations of the law, so we place great confidence in what we do. The General and Education Committee, which I expect to get the case to treat. The committee will introduce guests and reviews at the Committee, perhaps giving a clearer view of legal matters, because this is a complex matter and many aspects of it. But I would finally like to read here from an article that I ran into, published in Science today, by child surgeon Þráinn Rósmundsson. He has studied this matter and is one of the authors of a large article published in the magazine Peditrics, i.e. Children's doctors, a very well - known article, in 2013. This article went on to refute the previously held evidence that the handling of boys would be healthy, following benefits. In this famous article, Þráinn doctors, as I said earlier, are driving the prosurge into boys with medical reasons. In this article, he reviews the story of this matter, and he also explains why we present the matter to members of the Parliament. I would like to read from this article, with the permission of a president: In 2013 a young man contacted a local agent and demanded whether the guardian of a child could decide, without consulting, to have his client's healthy body parts removed, such as. the foreskin. This led to a debate followed by a partnership between the powermen of the children of the north. On September 30, 2013, a joint statement was published signed by the executives of the children of all the northern countries, along with the leading infant doctors, child surgeons, and nurses of these countries. The statement states that an operation without a medical reason for a person who cannot personally agree to the operation will fundamentally violate his human rights, especially since such a procedure is irreversible, painful and may result in serious side effects. Please turn to Article 12. the United Nations Children's Covenant to which all the North countries are involved, as well as to Article 24. to protect children from religious and traditional practices that could damage their health. It also states that the child's best interests, which must always remain the right parents to perform religious or traditional actions on their children, must be protected. It is granted that children (boys) need not take any action, such as this. An action that is in harmony with the parents'religion until they themselves have the legal obligation to make that decision. The Þráinn continues: ▪ Circumcision is an ancient procedure in which the foreskin as a whole is removed. This is not to say that distance is just the front part of the foreskin, as the preceding discussion has shown. The foreskin has the responsibility to protect the head of the penis. Prophylaxis studies have shown that the preputial nerve endings in the preputial form are much higher than those of the penile head itself. Then the foreskin plays a role in the immune system. There are sources from the ancient Egyptians who performed circumcision most likely due to preputial infections. These sources are much older than Abraham, the Bible's originator of Jewish circumcision (1800 B.C.E.). K.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: %s Abraham's older son, Ismail, is thought to have been the father of araba, with whom this custom is believed to have been transmitted to Arabs, later to Muslims. There is no mention of circumcision in the Muslim religion, the Koran. The postuli Páll felt that circumcision was unnecessary. Therefore, circumcision is not a religious matter in Christianity. Later explanations for the development of this action are that these nations lived in a desert area. Undressed boys were easily allowed to play, e.g. grains of sand under the foreskin that caused infection there. There were no antibiotics and hardly clean water. Thus, men were forced to remove the foreskin by incision to clear the infection. Gradually, this developed into the removal of the foreskin and gradually began to be performed for prophylaxis. No anaesthesia was available to make this easier for the children as the least possible, e.g. 8 days old (in Jews) - so there was a lack of anaesthetics - at least a few years (in Muslims). The mother's protests were silenced by putting this into the religions that all ruled. In Western lands, circumcision was rare in the early 1870's. Then, in the United States, theories on the benefits of circumcision were presented for a great deal of health. The operation was to cure subsuria, epilepsy, various kinds of insanity, impotence, and prevent self - abuse - which is naturally very sinful - ◯ to name something. Even though none of these events lasted, this custom reached a rapid spread of the area. In the United States, 50 to 470% of men are circumcised and less than 10% are circumcised in Europe. In all Western countries, including the United States, the incidence of circumcision has declined over the last few decades. The method of those struggling for circumcision has largely been to try to find medical reasons for the procedure. In 2012 an article published by the U.S. pediatrics Association claimed that such health benefits were to be achieved by a newborn boy's surgery to pay for the tax procedure (an incision is the most frequently performed operation in the United States). - So today. This statement was answered in Article 40 of the Western Doctors of 2013 - that is, the 38 doctors mentioned earlier, but Þráinn is one who writes the article I now read from -- ◯ Where all the evidence of health benefits were deteriorated. In addition, it was noted that complications that may follow the procedure, even if the procedure is done under the best circumstances -- take note: even if it is done under the best circumstances - a substantial amount of ◯7%. The side effects may include bleeding, infections, scarring of the operation site and narrowing of the urinary bladder. Part of your penis head has been described as removing and taking too much skin that can lead to pain problems later, for example. During sexual intercourse I'm just going and shooting at the fact that I've received many letters and more members from both circumcised men who have had problems, both mentally and physically, as well as from the wives of these men, who have described pain after sexual intercourse because of this. It has been shown that there are many nerve endings in the foreskin, that it has a purpose, that's just a fact. So it is wrong to say that circumcision on boys does not affect men's introductions. A certain object is being taken away that cannot be recovered. A person may be circumcised when he is old enough, but he may not be treated as a child, a few days of age, or several years of age. But the article continues: A 2010 science report shows that more than 100 boys die each year after circumcision, even if the procedure was done under the best of circumstances. The cause of death is usually bleeding or infection. Then it is vital to recognize the anguish of circumcised boys who grow up in an uncircumcised community. Finally, it should be noted that a large proportion of cases of religious circumcision are performed without anaesthesia or anaesthesia. - The main reason is that children are too small and are under-satisfactory. It should be noted that the procedure is extremely painful - yes, with all these nerve endings it says a little bit itself, doesn't it? --and all the talk that children of a few days of age can't feel is an empty fabrication. Children feel. Recent studies show that these little children even develop posttraumatic stress disorders; maternal relationships become more difficult, such as breast-feeding. A child is often suffering and is much longer recovering, so this is a serious matter. [[Up front.]] Continue with: ▪ The lively discussion that the bill has raised in the media and on the Internet gives evidence that people care about how babies are treated in the country. The fact that much of the medical profession and other health - care professions are signed under a declaration to the bill, even though the collection of signatures is only on the index shows this person's concern. Then you can be sure that a public signing campaign in Denmark is started to ban boy circumcision, which allows the individual to decide for himself what he wants. Most of the differences seem to be about the border, but 6 years of imprisonment is a long time. A tough protest from abroad was to be expected. This has always been the case if the case has been moved. That's exactly what I'm talking about. Of course, this matter has been discussed elsewhere than in Iceland, and the same has always been true. The discussion has become primarily about religious freedom and less about the rights of the child. It is our job as lawmakers to react when we receive tips, when we receive tips from agents working in protecting children and in securing the interests of children, such as the Children of the North and the Children. If such individuals point out that action on children violates their human rights, we as lawgivers must carefully investigate the matter. It's just a solution. We agree on that, I think we can all say that, we must all agree that the unnecessary action of children that are irreversible, that can cause them pain, could possibly harm them, and even death. The work ahead provides the right way to ensure that children's rights and protection are honored. Surely we can do so together, work out these legal issues, how best to put such things into place, what to punish. Should there be punishment, or should there be guilt? Is that supposed to be a prison sentence? How long? As noted, the article Þráinn - because some have said that we should make some rules that this will only be allowed in a medical facility. But the land hospital and doctors there have now published that such measures are not being carried out in the Land Hospital. On the other hand, new figures I have from the surgeon general show that these measures are carried out in a town of experts. In recent years, their numbers have increased. Cortologists refuse to inform the surgeon of their actions and number of actions. A surgeon's reply also showed that quality checks had not been reviewed by expert registrations. So we don't have very much. Still, we can see that these are not many actions. However, this number of measures are increasing in recent years. Is it enough to tie this to operating rooms by specialists? According to Þráinn Rósmundsson Rosmund's article, this is not enough. Although action is being done under the best of circumstances, it is still very dangerous. In this case, the rate of death due to these measures, despite the best circumstances, is presented by the physician, and there are all types of complications. So we just have to take a real careful look at this. I hear today that the minds of members of Congress are involved, and people find it interesting. There's something new for us, and we need to take care of it. The discussion can take time, and it is important that we be careful. There is a number of concerns, and this is exactly the subject of intersex and other matters that we need to discuss here. I thank you for a good sound and really good discussion. Finally, I suggest that the case be referred to the General and Education Committee for further development.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u177	Mr. President. The issue I recommend here has some background, but the bill is about a change in health care law, No. 40/2007, No. 125/1999, with subsequent changes. My importers on the bill are quite a few people, that's why. Þorsteinn Víglundsson Signý, Andrés Kristjánsdóttir Inga, Vilhjálmur Þórsson, Willum Þór, Oddný G., Kristinsson S.. Like I've come into this case for a few years. One present at the 139th legion of the 139th legislation for a single estate in aging institutions, which at the time had actually not been introduced in that form, although the matter was often handled in a council hall. The conversation that had been discussed in the Assembly Hall had been somewhat consistent with the fact that this was probably an issue of rights and that the matter had to be eliminated. Nevertheless, the matter has never really been fulfilled in law texts. Over the years, many in nursing homes have declined, but on the other hand, we still share, as shown in the bill's report, with fewer than 500 homes of two farms or three blocks, and thus we have a space for over 500 people who do not enjoy their human rights to live with those whom they may choose. A year or two ago, the cost of coping with this change was calculated. The cost of the bill may be in the range of 5How7 billion, spread over the amount of time the proposals assume, but we should not forget that the elderly's budget would easily be in charge of the money or money they have today and from the financial resources that have been funded through the years. As a precaution, it can be said that the provisional principle is at the end of the bill that a minister should plan for five years to complete this problem, making it easy for society to deal with the project and to offer such human rights. In my discussion, I have heard that this may not be necessary because some simply want to live with someone else in nursing homes. You may be right. But in my previous job I certainly remember one and one case where they would like to live with some other person in a nursing home room, but such cases are very few. One good man said to me at the time when I was preparing to move this bill first, that when we built a nursing home, our thinking should always be that we were not building a nursing home for our grandparents, but we were building a nursing home for our grandchildren. Therefore, when we meet with a nursing home, we should try to put ourselves in the shoes that may be normal after 20, 30, 40 years or so. I think there's a lot going on here. The other half of the bill turns to the rights that have often come up in discussions over the past few years, that a spouse or a partner will have the opportunity to live with their partner in a nursing home, even if the person does not have what we call skill and health evaluations. This is a little more complicated, actually, because the legislation and the rules we have today about performance and health are quite clear because no one should live in a nursing home unless he or she has had this so-called skill and health assessment. So the bill, as stated in Leviticus, is the original text. more complex, more complex, and so more complex than in the highest bill. current health minister, Sigis Svavarsdóttir, who was transferred to the 145th legislature. But the writer here sent a review of the bill where I pointed out the need to handle these matters so that such individuals would be prepared for all rights, not only to those living in nursing homes with skill and health, but also to those who move there and in what way they might have the right to enjoy service, etc. That's why the 3rd bill's all about it. I'm going, with President's permission, to read it. It says: ▪ A permanent resident in an institution for the elderly should be able to stay with his or her spouse when circumstances permit. A man should pay fair rent on account of his presence and pay the cost of his stay. Depending on the circumstances, the Agency's services will be available for charge. A marriage mate according to this number is an exception to the ◯ - notice, for what? Councilmen - a state-of-the-art and health assessment and shall have a legal home outside the organisation. - It's pretty important. For up to eight weeks after a man's death, he can stay at the aging agency. At this time, the possibility of continued stay on the Agency should be determined and the right to stay at that time should be dropped unless the result of an assessment of performance and health status has been established. Section 15. The law says that there is a basis for continuing residence and that the right of the individual to the home is an institution for the elderly. The minister appoints a marriage mate and a partner's law on aging institutions, which include: The funds, payment arrangements, rights, insurance and the cost of the state should be specified. This is quite thorough, but it is by no chance. You see, this may not be defined as meaningless. For example, consider a nursing home where circumstances are just like that or the composition of a household so that it simply will not be possible to touch them, it could not be made as if we were saying. But by inserting it into the lyrics that this can be done when appropriate, we actually have rights for people, at least to apply for this position, and, in most cases, if I know the rightness, would be tried to meet this. On the other hand, some homes in nursing homes are narrow, and there is little difficulty in getting there simply because of lack of space. Unfortunately, several nursing homes in Iceland today are completely below 10 square feet [10 square meters] and even in some absolute exceptional situation something smaller than that. So this is not always possible. Then, too, there are situations in which little closed units are involved, which may also be difficult, not perhaps because they are not allowed to choose to move into a closed ward to their mate, but because it may be difficult to put them on the law of separation to an institution that he or she should care for the other members of the home who are closed for some reason. All these views, therefore, need to be taken into account. Then, when the mate falls away, it is very important that the husband and wife have no second law; it has not been designed to make sure that he or she has something to disappear but also that he will have the reasonable period. Today, we aim for a rest period of up to eight weeks in aging institutions each year, so it is inserted into a column that is up to eight weeks that may be this period of fear. Most National Education and Health Committees meet sufficiently to allow it to survive within this time frame, i.e. to decide whether a person should become an independent person to live in the home or not. I've thought up and thought about it in the past, and, in fact, I have a question to the highest degree. If we can say so, a health minister will determine the cost of living in nursing homes, as well as the human language. Hence, it is important to try to determine what it really means to stay in a home or to live in a nursing home when it is chosen and to provide for someone in a nursing home. In some cases, the cost may be estimated relatively high. That's why it's a legal warrant for the Minister. Today, we have a Regulation that says that there may be up to 400 of you involved in the cost of living. K. per month. I'd think it was totally the upper limit. I'd think it'd be less than that. However, the Ministry is assigned to evaluate it and to decide it. I've had a bit of a reaction when I proposed my bill and people have asked me if I was serious about any list of waitings in the country to assume that an adult would be in a nursing home. It is not unusual, in itself, for humans to be concerned about this. However, it is not to be expected that those who arrived as partners in a nursing home would take up other space. Rather, they would normally be expected to stay in rooms or quarters of their mates and thus not to take up space from anyone else. Of course, they might need a place at the table or the lunch table or whatever it is, but I think in most cases it should be easy to resolve. People have also asked me, " Won't this be just what everybody asks of me? ' But as a gerontologist and a worker in that business for several years, at least in my case, these events have been on both fingers for the past 20 years, where they have usually been in the discussion. Because, of course, that's what we all understand, and I think the majority of the people in Iceland, and considering the public health code we live in, we are not generally suggesting that healthy people settle into clinics, which is not the spirit of the bill. The vast majority of the time when a mate has lost his health and needs the services of nursing homes, is so sick or in good health, and his circumstances are so far different from those of a married couple, that there is no reason for a healthy couple to move with him at home. But there's a case like this. The bill is an attempt to answer the concerns that arise in society because of it. I suppose the bill will follow this discussion to the question. I'm looking forward to the discussion there, hoping that the matter will be established during this council, or the next in case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u178	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech and this very interesting and good bill. In fact, his speech was accurate to answer the questions that had earlier come to mind when I asked for an answer in some way in the latter part of the talk. This may have been about how they were resolved with a marriage mate when one falls away and both live in a nursing home. Of course, it is so easy to agree with human rights that people will be allowed to live together despite the need for assistance from another individual. For some reason, this case has been in the discussion a long time, but so far, we have not been able to accomplish it, as I know. In view of the fact that I know what to do. A senator is very familiar with this group of litigators, and I wanted to know if he knows how the situation is in these languages somewhere abroad. Do we have an example that has worked? Or perhaps they've given some replacements at home to make it work? If so, what is the experience?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u179	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir That's the spirit of Haraldsdóttir's daughter. Yes, I know the example in this country. There are a few cases in which a nursing home has simply decided to resolve such a matter on its own, so simply a spouse is invited to be in the shape of a rented home. But there is really no law against it. However, these are just a few examples. I quickly remember two of them here in Iceland. There may be more. I don't know national legislation, but I know that in countries where there is no public health system, it's practised to some extent. The experience, however, is the same as in Iceland, that this is not a lot to ask for. This is not to say that even if their mate is sick, they are asked to move into a medical facility. That's understandable because of the reasons I traced back here. It is clear that if a person is ill, he may need to attend a lot of health care even if he has to live in a medical facility.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u180	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. He came into what I wanted to ask about next. In my discussion, I had heard that moving into a clinic was not necessarily a demand for people to do so. The other point is that it might not be necessarily the benefit of the individual. When people enter a nursing home, they need much care. Could it simply be that such living arrangements in a nursing home help a person to overdo or to serve his sick mate and thus to cope with stress from employees, yet the pressure is too great on the person who moves in there? I'd like to ask you, too. A senator to the request for a house of his own. I mean, I mean, when we're building a nursing home today, they're thinking of being alone. To some extent, I think we're working with that part of the situation. I have stood in that position to visit a nursing home for my grandmother, and then I was told by nurses at the nursing home that it wasn't so bad at all to be in a two-and-a-half farm. These people would now be in their age that they may never have experienced being alone in a room and that they would be associating with one another. There was a little hint about it and trying to sell you that it would be a pretty good option to live with others.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u181	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the questions. Hv. paritaprevir How important are the words of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir: Are we perhaps putting the healthy mate under stress that he or she should not submit to? That's been a lot of discussion. In health care and health care, it is often a concern that husbands and wives are simply wearing themselves out because of their immediate care. Among other things, I think that's why this service is not very much applied, it hasn't been asked very much, not much said about it. I think the Senator can be absolutely right. Of course, we need to consider the interests of these individuals in particular. For one thing, this authority is included in this Regulation, which is to address both the rights and the duties of the marital union. I moved a bill eight years ago or about a farm in nursing homes. Then I wanted this to be over in the next five years. Since then, eight years have passed, and we still have something about 500 individuals. I think it'll take something like this to push the case over. Something like this is needed to push us to complete this mission. Of course, we will never forbid anyone who does not want to live alone in a nursing home to be with others in a room if such a person is found, because the bill turns to rights to farms rather than to farms. I don't think we have to worry that there will be a big wave in the community that requires anyone to be in doubles.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u182	A respectable president. I recommend a proposal for the resolution of digital carpenters, but the movers are thirteen from all categories, I, along with Trausti Fóðfjörfjörfjörður Elissólund, who are the first prime speakers in which we worked this synonym and the co-dicators are the Birgir of Þórarinsson, Guðmundur In Kristinsson, Þorsteinn Mogensen, Sæland Góndand, Jón Þór Ólafsson, Smári Víglundsson, Willum Thordur Þórsson, Thordina Þorgerður, Friðbertsson Katrín, and Gunnarsdóttir Oljörstir GeIIur. The General concluded to hide an education and cultural minister working out a program for the development of digital carpenters with the aim that all high school students have access to such carpenters. The plan will be carried out in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Culture and Professional Road and Development at the National Institute of Creation, the Union of Iceland, the University of Education of Iceland and the University of Akureyri and other clients. In addition to high school, e.g. This is where there's a good opportunity to introduce these digital carpenters by e.g. Interesting features of their activities, the art university, and other people who are interested in using these technologies and digital structures. The concomitant plan will then be developed a core and high school teaching policy that includes take into account all the basics of the study, the learning eligibility criteria and the potential review of the primary secondary secondary studies of high school in order to consider this access to digital carpenters for high school students and their ability to train in these carpenters. The plan provided by the Ministry of Education and Culture will be clear on the progress of the project and the completion of the work, as well as fully funded in financial programmes. So the Consolvement proposal goes out to give a message from the council to the government to work on a financial work programme in order to create access to digital carpenters for all high school students in Iceland. New creations in the 21st century relate to computers, Internet, and technology. This is true of innovation within conventional employment practices, services of enterprises, as well as pioneers and wands. Few jobs can thrive without technology, and there is a need for creative, technical, and well - educated people in all aspects of the future. In fact, we are at the turning point as a society that considers digital technology and self - efficiency in all areas. How glad we are that there is an understanding among all categories of those matters! This is actually linked with an effort to further the education and further emphasis on education, such as. in high school, where this is the future construction center. Building an education and the ability to face radical changes in the economy and in the community is vital. Thus, using the permission of a president, digital architecture, known as FabLab, Fabrication Laboratory, can be a site for action that falls on a larger digital Iceland policy. Iceland's competitiveness has deteriorated greatly in the wake of the economic crisis in 2008. The 2012 Boston Consulting Group report makes Iceland very effective in comparison with other countries in terms of network infrastructure and development. Iceland is also high when it comes to how much money is spent on the Internet. Icelanders stand much lower on the list when it comes to how much they use the Internet for business and employment. This suggests that Icelanders are consumers of technology rather than using technology, as is more common in controlled countries. In research, assessments, policy-making, and various conclusions, it has been pointed out over and over for years that Iceland's competitiveness for the future is based on our potential for innovation in the power of knowledge and ability. All agree on the importance of increasing focus on engineering and technology and promoting the proliferation of technology and science experts. All agree to take advantage of the nation's opportunities to achieve the scope of promoting the share of the international sector in the Icelandic economy, as such is the case. Mckinsey 2012, Charing a Growing Path for Iceland, which is popular in this context. Now, the fourth foundation, called the birth of a new birth, is not a great support. When it was supposed to be the product of innovation in Iceland and for the Icelandic economy, the tourism industry actually came into play as a fourth support. All too little has been done in the fourth development to be done, which is evident when considering government follow-up by implementing the Council of Technology and Science. New plans have now been made that are less likely to reach certain financial goals and more about developing a policy and that the carpenters should blend in. Digital carpenters, FabLab, are important tools to work on and reach these goals that I described earlier. FabLab provides students with access to digital manufacturing technology that enables them to develop tangible solutions. If you have the right to create a study in FabLab, they will open up new opportunities for your child's ability in real life: science, technology, engineering and mathematics, as these carpenters actually offer a certain digital brush. But such skills are essential to our success in strengthening the interiors of society and at the same time building a professional life that is competitive in a global environment. Digital carpenters are designed to offer public access to highly developed computer - controlled production tools. The purpose is to give the public and the students an opportunity to learn how to use this technology, develop ideas, skills, prototypes, and start sceptical companies. Dignifications provide environment, skill and training, advanced technology, and materials to create things in a simple and practical way. The builders are to be accessible to all: pioneers, students, artists, smaller companies, and, in fact, all who want to create something new or create something for themselves. In particular, the proposal focuses on high school students to be accessed to digital carpenters, but it is important that bioavailability does not become restricted to high school, but it opens both basic schools in local and public areas. It's FabLab's ide that the builders are open to everyone. The reason why we focus especially on the higher schools in this suggestion is to take the first steps in education and then distribute that knowledge from the higher schools, in effect, to spread it. It is important that at the same time, the carpenters are well trained personnel who have knowledge of both tools and tools, design and valuables, as well as the loyalty of teachers. The digital technology produced in the digital industry is varied, ranging from the size scan and - print to the laser shield and textil, along with imaging, in two dimensions and in three dimensions. At that time, much programming and programming are being done in a practical way. Digital carpenters are certainly a future construction firm and an ideal setting to achieve goals in advanced work, occupation, and art studies. Digital carpenters have their origin in MIT, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where it's an interesting TED lecture in the URL www.com/talks/Neil_gersfeld_on_fab_labs--hopeavour that everyone has achieved this and is stamping this into his browser - and the idea that the solution of local problems is often found in close society, that access to production tools to develop solutions and work with ideas is the basis for the future community. Today you can find digital carpenters in Akureyri, Hornfjordur, Isafjordur, and Sea of the Year, in the Far East, in Reykjavík, and in the West. There are also indicators for digital structures in various other locations such as, for example, The Grinch High School. Most of them are employed in cooperation with local high school. In addition, similar carpenters around the world, in all continents except in Antarctica, are being encouraged by the government to set up a digital carpenter for close society throughout the country and to take the first steps together with high school. This is the policy of the council in the right direction for the future. The sooner the better. The basic concept of digital carpenters is that everyone can produce. This is a fundamental revolution in connection with the revolution that took place, for example. with the Internet and community media where everyone could write news, everyone could share in the discussion. Dignitaries offer people the opportunity to learn skills and access equipment so that everyone can make it. This is one of the cornerstones of the manufacturing community. Just as we can share opinions in an open and accessible way, we share things and productions in an open and accessible way. The ability to use this pen, sometimes I've wanted to say it, is a key factor. This is about, in fact, teaching everyone to read and write with a new type of pen. At one point, not everyone knew how to read and write, but a reader needed to announce the king's orders, the information revolution came with the printing technique, and the learning to read and write. This also reaches everyone in the manufacturing process. With the support of the movers from all categories, I hope that this body of Congress proposal will pass through during this council so that the government can start planning the plan that would then appear in the budget of 2019. I don't think it'll be allowed to be placed in the 2018 financial programme, but if it's the highest. A minister of education might then be able to get a little budget for 2018 to take the lead in euphoric behavior. I suggest that at the end of the discussion, the situation will be resolved. General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u183	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, the first member of this matter, for presenting it as well as the opportunity to be a representative of the case. I'm going to start by confirming in case there's any doubt that the highest. Lilja Dögg Dög Alfreðsdóttir is a far-sighted minister. I have no doubt that the highest. Minister is supporting this case. It's like you're looking in here and there. A senator entered are here members of all categories. This will fit into the administration contract at the highest. Governments and in many ways, this is a big deal that I appreciate, not only in school, but also in the social and social changes that lie ahead of us. This involves education, technology, computers, digital Iceland, a wide range of educational systems, local solutions at the same time. A senator spoke here. This has proved to be a way of opening up carpenters for the public which is also important. For example, relationships with high school are important. A senator came in, and as it has been, it has already begun with good results, but, of course, we need to take care of our basic schools and school systems. It was the last time I heard unsubstantiated inquiries. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy with a query to the highest level. Economic and economic secretary on economic development and the highest. A minister came to see how important the government lays on innovation, which is a complete password in all of this. As we discuss the future economy and sustainable economy, we need to consider innovation. I would run through the government covenant just before speaking, always good to have that covenant with my hand, not to mention when it comes to those words, such as innovation, research, and evolution. True, we put money in a new world that is good and should be done so. This case reflects it when we examine things and the educational system in a complete sense. On holiday, we talk about linking professional life with school. Such a clicker fit for the ideologies, opening the possibility. There are many positive things in this regard. In this synopsis proposal for digital architecture and access, they are suggested by the Allied Council to assign the Minister of Education and Culture to work a plan on this, so that all schools, elementary schools, universities and all the school community, but it's very important, I want to draw it out here, as proposed, to ensure the survival of Iceland's Neon Institutes. In fact, that assignment is a practical feature of our home, the knowledge and the assignment. That is why it is very important that the New World Translation Centre establish this policy ahead and anyway, as mentioned here, because it is so important to distribute it to the United States. It's a community case along the way. This is really a big deal if we go to that discussion. That's why I'm very happy about this matter, so I wish it all the best, and it's going to get better. As I said before, this will fit into the government's plans and enter the government covenant. I was going to access the bioavailability, in fact, we should have carpenters like this in all high schools. There's a site I looked into in connection with this case, there's a link in itself to the lecture of the ideologies. Then we have a nice web here called Fab Lab Iceland, where the ideologies are being considered. I encourage all who want to learn more about this. I'm not gonna have my whole case any further here, chief. President, who is very welcome to this matter and is convinced that there will be some positive reviews and publicity in the expected highest level. A top-of-the-art Board of Education.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-01-32.u184	Madam President. I recommend a bill to correct child law change, No. 76/2003, with subsequent changes, for policy maker in paternity. My importers are down. Councilmen of the United States, Adda María Jóhannsdóttir, Elíasdóttir Frifjörg of Elias, Ólafur Ölfur Ágústsson, Guður S. Brjánsson, Oddný Harðardóttir Hardborndóttir, and Logi Einar Einarsson. In 1st. The bill is suggested, by permission of the President: - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. A sentence. 1.mg. 10th par. The law puts it this way: If a parent has not been determined, he may be the child himself, the mother, or the man who thinks he is the father of a child. 2 mg. Refer to Article 6 of the article. 2.g. is said, by permission of the president: ▪ Following the words of a child's father 2 gts and 1st Twenty-one. The law comes: or a man who thinks he's the father of a child. Section 3. is said, by permission of the president: ▪ This law already comes into effect. Madam President. A similar bill regarding the change in family membership has been given several times here at the General Assembly, but it has not been achieved. This bill suggests a change in children's law, with subsequent changes, that limitation of the one now in paragraph 10. The law as well as the 21st floor. The law on man's authority to employ a family language and a language of relics will simply be dismissed. The bill for the change of paragraph 1 of paragraph 10. Child law has been introduced twice before, at the 135th legion and 136th legislature, but it did not succeed. At that time, the bills of this material have also been submitted at the General Assembly of 144th, the legislature and the 145th legislature. The reason why things did not work out was not because of opposition, as can be seen in the case of the council, as well as in the case of deliberations made available, but simply because there have been no political launches and not heavy promulations. That is why these bills have simply arrived at the council. Madam President. It's time to end. It is a fundamental matter of the fundamental right of a child, of knowing his background. In current 10th degree. According to one man who believes that he is the father of a child, only a father can appeal to a father's name that a child was not a father. This involves a limit to a person's right to seek a court order on his rights and duties, as 1 mg. 70 C. The constitution, as well as the limitation of a child's right to know his parents, is in line with 1st. child law, in the case a child has not been the right father. Therefore, a man claiming to be the father of a child could remain, if this bill is accepted, undisputed to its fatherhood to confirm, although only by limitation that there is no paternity to be used in the case of a child of two women mentioned in ART, as 4 mgr. Section 6. baby law. Linguistic rules have long restricted the rights of men who claim to be father of a child to appeal to court cases to confirm the fatherhood of a child. " The Law of the Law of the Christ, " No. 20/1992 was used as a means of paternity to the child or to the mother. In the Supreme Court of 2000, pp. 4394, listed the Supreme Court then, which is a judgment decreed 18 years ago, a limitation to rule out father from seeking justice against 70 C.E. The constitution, as well as 6th par. European Convention, 70th C.E. it is a rule of independence that the general right of people to plead their case under courts and that all restrictions on this principle should be explained in the light of it. Based on an equal rule 65 C. The Constitution can also say that the men who consider themselves to be the father of a child are being violated and want to seek justice. It is a great interest, both for society and especially for the child, because its fatherhood is properly revealed and determined. What happens after that judgment is passed on to the Supreme Court 18 years ago? Yes, the lawgiver responded, but only in part, and then he proposed a change in child law. In a paper with a bill, what later became a child law for those of today, No. 76/2003, was suggested for the transliterated paragraph i.e. 10th par. on the subject of a paternity affair, a change in the court of the Supreme Court, and a change of attitude toward the child's right to know both parents and its right to get along with them. An recognition of the rights of a man who claims to be the father of a child to appeal to a father's case had fallen to support these rights of a child, being a fundamental right. In the treatment of the bill at the General Assembly, a joint committee proposed the later approval of a man who thinks he is the father of a child should be limited to the cases that a child is unfathered or false to his father. An committee committee noted that the main purpose of this change was to prevent unfounded lawsuits. Only in these matters. This committee had thus given a concern that men would start a group lawsuit to disturb innocent women. It has to be believed that the views laid down in the bill that became children's law, based largely on the above court's court, are still applicable today, since this limit has not yet been corrected today in this arrangement of Article 10. child law, which the Supreme Court said is slaughtering against 65th and 70th. The constitution as well as 6th par. European Convention of Human Rights. To this day, men who believe that they are fathers of children, who have been born with either a pater est rule of child rights or only with fatherhood theory because the mother has decided so, were excluded from seeking her rights and the child's right to know its origin. Is it, then, with the bill that is once again submitted to the change that a man who believes himself to be a child's father will be authorized to appeal to family matters without any restrictions? A man's right to the tradition of birth now in Article 10. if you see an abnormal child, and not at all for the best. Fear of unfounded advocates must be expected to be unfounded, and the rightness and the treatment of tribal matters should be prevented, including Because of the regulations on the matter, rightness and strict proof requirements. In the BA Guðbjörg of Anna Bergsdóttir in law at the University of Reykjavík, for a paternity application, a study was conducted on how many marriages had been made for the County Court of Reykjavík from the current children's institution since 2003 to March 2009. During this six - year period, 39 counts were set up in the family, where a father was a parish servant in one of them. At that time, 29 cases were dropped, but in none of these cases the father was the parish servant. At the same time, 21 cases were settled where a father was a parish servant in one of them. It should be noted that in these matters the child was obviously not the father; otherwise, the child could not have found out. In view of the above figures, the writer of the controversial essay concluded that worrying about whether a man's legal authority in favor of a father would be to appeal to a paternity case, there would be no reason to increase the occurrences of the unprovoked lawsuits, i.e. The evidence used by the board against opening this up. The bill also suggests a change in judicial hearings to question the fatherhood of a child or to invalidation of a father - to - child teaching or in a so - called webseed case. The procedure in the courts has been that if a child is a father, the first thing to do is to appeal to a question of adoption before a father's father can properly be restored. According to current legislation, a limitation system is deemed in Article 21. The law of the law, i.e. Mother, registered father, or child himself. Not the man or the man who thinks he's the father of a child. The law suggests that a man who thinks he is the father of a child who is already a father has no means to force him to know if he really is the biological father of a child. With the same logic as previously diagnosed, i.e. 65th and 70th. constitution as well as 6 mg. The European Convention on Human Rights is a violation of the rights of the men there. If the bill is legal, it will lead to a person who believes that he is a father to a child. According to the movers, there is a great and necessary improvement in equality. A little bit about the last one. The bill. These are children conceived with assisted reproductive techniques and are not expected to produce a suitable sperm donor, which was later conceived by an egg, by which it may require that the child's father be registered. when a man and woman with their own free will have fathered a child whom the father is so different from the father. This was for introductions on the bill. After a discussion, I would like to request that the case be referred to. The welfare committee and the 2nd Environment Committee. and I have high hopes that the committee will be taking the matter for good, but at the same time, careful coverage can finally be completed once and for all, so that we are not moving this bill more often. It is a fundamental matter. Already there are many reports of various sources, including an agent of children, and all have been very positive. Therefore, we do not hold back from doing the necessary rights for the welfare of our children.
