ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u1	The first session will be adopted, the election of a state accountant, according to Article 2. track No. 46/2016, of a state accountant and reviewing state accounts, to six, from May 1, 2018. The vote applies to 7 mg. 82. g. Parliaments that say that when choosing one person, they are alone and alone, not contradicting it. According to point two. Act on state accountants and reviewing state accounts, No. 46/2016, the prime committee proposes a recommendation to the General for an individual in order to serve the office of a public accountant. At the meeting of the Presidency Committee this morning, a unanimous agreement was made to make a suggestion to Skúli Eggert Þórðarson. Since other appointments have not been passed to president within the period of the law, he alone is elected. The President has decided that the vote will be made by the vote system, such as by Congress. It can be tied to a secret written vote. The vote system will now be set so that the tablets on the walls will only show who paid votes, not how they voted. The same applies to the computer storage memory. Those who choose a Skúli Eggert Þórðarson press the yes button, but those who want to return the blank push on the button marked, do not vote. No button has been disabled. A yellow light on the middle button of the council when a vote has been paid, no matter which button you have pressed. Similarly, only yellow lights are on the wall. Therefore, I now present a Skúli Eggert Þórðarson, a state accountant from May 1, 2018 to the next six years, and on behalf of us generals, I wish that he would succeed in his work and we would expect to benefit from cooperation with a new government accountant.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u2	A respectable president. I don't agree that this meeting will be extended in itself. However, I made arrangements tonight because I did not realize that a meeting would be extended. If that had been clear in advance, I probably wouldn't be putting up with it. But I don't want to get into the habit of putting up with other senators until tonight if I can't be myself. That's why I don't vote. Also, I'd like to make it a matter of sharing information, not of whether a long meeting is today. In itself, it is not. It's about working and sharing information. So that they can be fed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u3	A respectable president. I'd like to speak to the President's conference board, including... Because of the council as it is, and because I see here on our schedule today, there are four issues submitted by a formal extension, i.e. Therefore, on April 1, the council is to be agreed on whether or not they should be addressed. It is the fourth, 7, 8, and the 10th session on the newly published program for this assembly, a subject that was not published for the appointed time. Now I want to ask the highest. President why I don't see on my schedule to vote on whether these cases should be taken over at this assembly without any delay. How, then, is this usually done? To be honest with you, I'm surprised. Mr President, that we stand here to discuss a long-term conference meeting for matters that are overdue and that we are even asked permission, whether these cases can be handled before the council. I'm asking the highest. President: How does this arrangement appear?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u4	In a sense, the president said that it had already been searched for a measure of variation in the nature of these issues. He was not aware that in any case this situation had not yet been searched for, but, of course, the matter is being investigated. Give them to me as long as it's OK. paritaprevir Gunnar Sveinsson Sveinson, 6th. We're out of here. "The word.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u5	A respectable president. I think it's important that the president decide whether or not they're right. A senator, who felt that he could have agreed on these four matters. Before continuing, it is important that you do so. If you do, I'll agree with that. Senator. It's strange to be having an evening meeting if any lapsus is in this. But let's hear what the President says before we go further.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u6	This case has come to an end, I think. So much for all these programs that they were registered before April 1. They were all booked before April 1, although they may have been distributed during the following days. But all of them were written in here by the specified deadline, so it does not need to be taken lightly.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u7	Mr. President. For a considerable time, the request has now been made for a report from the highest level. The minister of state where the first mission is Resa Brynjólfsdóttir Bryfjordsdóttir, and there are others in this case. I think it's amazing at the highest. A minister cannot be a little more alert to make comments and discuss this if he has any comments to do this instead of resorting to this advice to stop this in some panic response. To my surprise, the secretary won't accept his request. The secretary shall accept the request directed by the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u8	As the president has already informed them, this case will be explained. The president promises to make a clear and clear explanation of the case when it is proposed on Wednesday and does not have any other purpose, as stated earlier, but that the will of the council will be shown in these topics.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u9	Mr. President. There's obviously something new here on the distribution and registration of Congress. I've never seen this before. The Congress Act says, by permission of the President: No summer breaks will be planned without the approval of the council. 81st At 81 st. goes on to say: A vote allows for the outcome of events and matters unless it is decided differently in the Constitution or in the Congress. In that case, they can be part of the program if distributed. I want to know about the president what's the difference between this registration and distribution because it's important for our Congress to know how things can go on, we'll get into it ourselves. We say, "Hey, I've been praying that this case be written down before. " But then they said, "No, it's the day of distribution, see." It's got to be quite clear, then president's answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u10	This will be used in decades of tradition, however, that this wording is interpreted as if the case is completed, signed by the president, ready for contributions, and available for accounting and registration at the council is in relation to that date. But there are probably bills, and then they are printed, and they are formally distributed during the following days.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u11	Mr. President. Of course, I'm happy that I'm the highest. The president will explain in a poetic way why it is decided to postpone the vote of a report request here. Of course, it's completely unacceptable if the highest. Ministers can delay such cases by writing letters to presidents, but of course I do not know the contents of the letter as the highest. Mr President has told us today that this is the reason for this investigation to be delayed. But I suppose there are some very perplexing and valid reasons for the postponement, for, of course, we, generals, cannot find pleasure in the highest degree. Ministers do, with some messages and letters to the President, that the request is not signed here under votes. It's obviously completely unacceptable. But I expect the letter to be the very important reasons we can agree to be justified in postponing such a case. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u12	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to a new overall layer of marine and coastal systems. The bill was based on the work of the Environment and Resource Minister and in extensive consultation with the Ministry, agencies, the European Union of Iceland and other stakeholders. The bill opened the introduction process, as well as the comments of stakeholders. As reported in the overview of a paper with the bill, it made certain changes for its contributions to the 146th legislation following the reports received by the Environment and Resource Ministry. The reviews received by the 146th Environment and Transport Committee also led to certain changes in the bill. The design of marine and coastal areas is a new topic for planning in Iceland. This subject has been discussed substantially in recent years, with various analyses and reports on the situation. There have been reports of increased diversity in marine and coastal areas and a growing demand for a clear need for planning in these areas. To place such planning on governments and thus the obligation to enforce such an organization, it is necessary to refer to legal planning of marine and coastal areas. If this bill becomes a law, it will be a turning point, as there is no law on an organization in Iceland's seas and coastal regions, which have been called by many. The legislation laws deal solely with the strategy of rural society and include areas within their jurisdiction. The bill takes into account, among other things, the aims of the 2015/226 national planning policy aimed at the more clear and efficient planning management of marine and coastal areas and sustainable use and regional planning. In part, the objective of the bill is to guide the needs of the people of the country, health and security, to provide the basis for the wide range of sustainable uses and protection and to ensure that the rightness, justice, and cooperation are assured. In view of the reasonable use of marine and coastal areas, everyone's interests are essential to decision-making. Therefore, the bill suggests a policy on marine and coastal systems will always be developed in national planning. There will also be the basis for the development of a coastal system that will set up areas to be organized. The regions defined as coastal areas of the bill range from the networks to the specified reference line at sea. This is a line drawn around the country and is a guide to the reporting of fishing vessels, under the European Fishing Railing Act, to fish in certain areas outside the line. Small functions other than fishing are expected outside the reference line and there is a low likelihood of conflicting interests. Coastal areas under the bill are outside the jurisdiction of rural society and therefore the custody of the state. The bill expects the development of a coastal zone structure in areas defined as coastal areas. It is suggested that the Environment and Resource Minister direct a so-called Regional Council responsible for the development of a coastal system for specific coastal areas. Regional councils are expected to be appointed representatives of the local minister, who would make more of the council, and representatives of rural society and the Union. An environmental organization is also expected to have an audience in the Regional Council to protect the public from the environment. Organization has a key role in the implementation of the law. Among other things, the Agency is intended to monitor the implementation of the organization, such as the guidance for licences and the use of marine and coastal resources. The Agency is aimed at caring for the development of a coastal zone structure and providing advice. Then it is designed to monitor the development of organizational issues, including the need for design and change in a specific coastal system. The bill specifically points to the role of the institutions and water - treatment committees, which are regional and organizational guidelines for counselling, and providing the necessary evidence for organizational work. At the end of the bill, the lack of perspective on marine and coastal activities was discussed, which is dependent on various legislation and allowing several institutions. The primary obligation, therefore, is to allow the legislators and managers to ensure that all marine and coastal activities are in line with current marine and coastal organisations. Furthermore, the obligation to allow the Agency to provide information on the published licenses published by the Agency on the Agency's website is mandatory. If this bill is legal, it can be assumed that its benefits will be high for stakeholders, societies, and, in fact, the whole community as a whole. The decision to use and protect using a coastal region structure will depend on a policy agreed by the legislator following a broad consultation process, i.e. with national planning policy. The coastal system, however, will be cooperated with countries and communities on specific objectives, including the global interests of the public, diverse and sustainable innovations based on ecology approach and overall vision, as well as other important factors. One of the objectives of the bill is to ensure consultation and cooperation with rural areas on coastal areas and its strategy in rural areas. With the bill, rural communities are allowed access to decision-making decision-making outside their jurisdictions and thus can protect their interests, including those relating to employment and development. The presence of rural populations on coastal areas is not available today. The establishment of a coastal zone structure will be expected to help solve the problems involved in stakeholders and simple decision-making activities and the procedure of the license team based on the current implementation and activities in designated areas. This bill made it clear that the demand for a specific activity in certain areas along the shores of the country has been high. The reviews received by the Environment and Resource Ministry and the Environment and Transport Committee showed that it was important to plan for early coastal areas in the West and Eastern Europe, especially as a result of increased fish farming in these areas. In view of this, in the terms of the bill for temporary work, the construction of a coastal zone structure for the West and the east in the autumn to come is proposed. In addition to the above, there are some laws that are presented to conform to this bill, including organizational laws and other laws dealing with individual licences. Among other things, the permission team may delay decision-making for a certain period of time if it is proposed that a coastal system for the area has been advertised. A respectable president. I've traced the bill's main subject and suggested that it be at 1st. Pointed to why. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u13	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for the contribution of a bill. I'd like to emphasize that one of the objectives of the bill is to ensure consultation and cooperation with rural development of coastal areas and to meet its strategy as planned. In Comb 4. The bill says that the Regional Council is responsible for the construction of coastal areas. In the 5th. which turns to the Regional Council, it seems to me that the influence of rural society is rather minor and the planning is moved away from the locals. If there are more than three societies, for example, there are only two members of the community. That's why I'd like to ask the highest question. A minister of these ideas, which have been about to be experimented on the west and east, that there would be an experiment in these six rural communities so that they would stick together to meet these regional bodies. [[The president calls.]] How does that feel? I don't necessarily believe that my rural society is making enough room for this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u14	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. To answer, it may not be right to say that the organizational authority is removed from the local people because they do not have it today. What we're dealing with is a planning of what we can call the ocean of the public, which is outside the grid; it's actually giving the rural communities access to the organization. However, they are not in much of the share. It's true that if there are very many societies, they have fewer agents, and then the idea is that they'll agree to put a number two agents in the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u15	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. What I'd like to stress is that with this bill, if it goes in so unchanged, there's an opportunity to power the rural communities in these areas and to promote the participation of democracy. I think this might become a development project to take the initiatives of the local people and give them the job. Even if the custody is not being transferred from the communities, because it does not have it, it should rather use this opportunity to give it to them. That's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u16	V.E.G. President. I now believe that it is important that our rural society come to this as far as possible. I agree with that. Senator. The export, as it is presented in the bill, accounts for a greater percentage of the Ministers' representatives, not members of the countryside. It is difficult to tell how this is going to work, but I can agree with the senator that it is most desirable that there will be extensive consultations within the regional council, which is the meaning and is written into the law that it should be. It is natural that this will come about as far as peace is concerned, about the work that this organization needs to embrace. I think everyone agrees that such legislation is extremely important. The arrival of the local community is absolutely loyal, but I'm well aware of the opinions of many members of the community, that they would like to have a rich access to these matters. The committee is likely to consider this too.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u17	Mr. President. I want to move on a little bit as fast as possible. paritaprevir Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir mentioned, i.e. Section 5. The bill. It says, naturally, to agree with a greater portion of the local council council council's representative, so that a case is decommissioned is accepted, although all representatives of the local council may be approved. In his review of a previous bill, the European Union, by permission of a president, considered it to be unusual that a representative of the local council is reserved for the denial authority of the region. Because of the directive, the bill receives authority that jobs do not require an equality level which is very unfortunate and, in fact, completely abnormal with regard to local interests for which local members of the community should secure by their seat in the regional council. So I'd like to ask the highest. Minister on his position on this section 5 paragraph. and whether he thinks he might it may be possible to find some compromise in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u18	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator is a great man for the counter-sponsored. I'd like to add a previous answer that the rural communities come naturally to this job in a richer way than I described before in the short time I had, including that when describing the organization, it is also open to public discussion and the whole process. Of course, your rural communities are represented in the regional council, and they are equal to the rest of the population in these cases, but if that is the case, if that is the case, the vote is clear, as it were. One senator noted that this is a major part of the government's custody. I try to answer the other part of the question afterward.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u19	Mr. President. I appreciate your answer. Minister. I hope he'll respond better later, but I'd like to change my course and discuss the financing. I'm glad that on the bill, as it is currently known, a coastal zone organization on Eastern Europe is organized into an organization on the West, an enormous task to take. In fact, neither of the initiatives can go on any longer. The report that follows the bill assumes that the Organization Fund will obtain additional funds to cover this project. So I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if he knew that the financing was available.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u20	V.E.G. President. With regard to the previous compromise question, there is something that is likely to come to the committee's attention. I am personally very close to the fact that the arrival of the rural society is rich in these matters and will not take any offense if you can implement this in some way that could put more into play with your rural society. I wouldn't interfere, but it's important that there's a form of custody on the hands of the State. In terms of funding, as the senator points out, the Eastern Coastal Organization is expected to be paid in the way that the senator reported. We're working at the Ministry to make it work, of course, because we understand well the importance of this being going on. The Easterners are certainly adding, in effect, from a previous bill submitted a year ago, but we are trying to find ways to make this work.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u21	A respectable president. I wholeheartedly agree to the importance of working to be organized for sea and coastal areas, and in order to establish a law on that type of work. As mentioned earlier, this bill is not unique and has not been the last few years, and most of it has come from the local communities. So I'm glad that a minister is open to more of the local community's access if there's a way of implementing it. I also welcome certain changes from a previous bill, including the provision of a coastal zone structure for both the East and the West in the autumn. But I have already received the question: So when could it possibly come to the outer part of the island? I'd like to direct that question to the minister. As for me, I would like to ask if a minister knows how and if the innovation programs that the communities have been letting work get into this business.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u22	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Yes, the recruitment programmes of a local community to be able to fit into this. It's about making it as useful as possible. Regarding the areas following these two, there is, in fact, a provisional principle that allows for the implementation of a coastal system for the East and the West. Other areas that follow are to be included in the policy taken as part of a national policy. There you will set priorities for which area will be next in line. I'm expecting us to take up a job in national planning soon with a planning agency. Well, I guess that's one of the things we're looking at. What kind of work is going on with this? I can't tell you exactly when outside Eyjafjordur would be on schedule, as the situation is now.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u23	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The minister's answer, but would you like to ask further about the divorce or the overlap of marine and coastal fishing and seafront planning, whether it is intended to be organized at sealands. The current port areas are well defined in rural port rules. Would it not have been considered that an organization at sea fell under rural areas? On the other hand, I wanted to ask about the coming of a water - area committee, which is referred specifically to as a recruitment party. I wondered for what purpose it is and whether the above are really active in all areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u24	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for his inquiry. In terms of overlap at the docks, it is assumed that there will be a special consultation with port management through the areas mentioned in the bill. This is due to comments observed during the review procedure. In terms of water management committees, they are part of what the Regional Council and Organization are supposed to agree with; they should be employed for the work at the regional level. This role is, in effect, an action plan on lakes, lake areas, and so on. It has a representative of the EEA, a local partner, and anyone else, if I recall correctly.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u25	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for this bill and for presenting it here. I'm glad I haven't measured it yet and I realize it, but I understand the basic factor. For me, a question arose, as a matter of course. In fact, members of the council asked earlier about the presence of local governments in the matter. In 2016 a bill on marine crops, thong, and sea bill was adopted that has become a law. I ask them, Is there any room for overlap? I read here, for example. In terms of deportation from land 30 m on torrential flood and 115 m on shore and one in that direction. [[The president calls.]] Is there any danger of conflict in that relationship?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u26	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. The bill assumes that the organizational arrangements will take into account all the permission groups of another organization and so on the streets that have taken place before. In this case, I assume that there was a certain permit unit behind an incision that would take account of the planning of the coastal region.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u27	V.E.G. President. Can I understand the answer so that there's an overlap, so they'll stand there somewhere if this bill is a law? It also involves speculation about Internet law, e.g. ... abouta grey-free fishing business. In fact, there are no or little seals in progress today, there are also Internet legislations, so it is not possible to talk about conflict. Other than that, I'm glad that this bill has been released. I haven't read through it, so it's going to talk more, and the case goes back into a committee. We have to take care of our resource, I totally agree with that. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u28	V.E.G. President. I'm pointing out what. Senator on 2 mg. 10th par. In this respect, but it says: The Trand area will be built on and in accordance with the marine and coastal policy. ... The following events should also be consistent with other coastal areas by law. The design of a coastal region should also be in accordance with planning guidelines. It should also be taken into account by administrative regulations, other laws and legal decisions on the use and protection of marine and coastal areas, for example, where certain activities are restricted or banned. In the case of the presence of some activities in the construction of the coastal region, consideration should be given to prior decisions made.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u29	Mr. President. I want to begin by celebrating a new project on marine and coastal systems. It's like the highest. In recent years, a minister has called on local and stakeholders for long to establish legislation on coastal areas, a new subject for planning in Iceland and a very exciting subject. As many have been identified in recent years, there has been a large rise in marine and coastal activities and an increasing demand for territories, including ... fromfishing, travel and packaging. Experience in recent years has shown that there has been a lack of perspective and policy development and, therefore, a great need for laws like this. We've got a lot of examples of that, both in Western and Eastern. In fact, the Westerners have taken the lead in setting up a strategy for the coast of Eaglefjörður, where all stakeholders were called to the table along with rural communities to cover the use of the distance, i.e. in areas offlined by a line that runs 115 m from a heavy-flown board and to a line that leads to 1 seam outside the base of the landway. The plan is the nature of the situation in accordance with no legal planning, but the design of a regional structure was guided. The strategy has been the guide of rural society in making decision-making in the coastal region, such as the development of reports and permission companies. The experience of this strategy, as well as the experiences of other nations, has shown that by doing this, we can contribute to the sustainable use of our coastal areas, reduce the risk of their conflict of interest, and protect the environment by planning procedures that must be the aims we all want to see to become reality. So this bill is important about the use of our coastal areas, and it will likely result in significant changes in the overall reporting of licenses and other activities. Therefore, it would be preferable to look to other primary signals related to the use of coastal areas. I mention it, e.g. Article 6 of Council of Sea Scourge and Agriculture Ministers, case No. On April 10 of that year, 457, which was recommended. Unfortunately, the bill did not mention a single word on coastal planning, nor was it found in the historical record of the Greats. Minister, rather, there is talk of consultation with adjacent societies. I hope so. The environment and transport committee specifically examined this, end up at the palm of the layer, in which these prime signals are being combined, taking care of this and making sure that there's a line between them. Let's hope these bills both come into play during this council. The bill we deal with here is about a lot of good, even though some may have done well. I'd like to go further, especially with regard to the custody of our rural society, as we came across the lines of opposition. They have long called for coastal areas, up to 1 seamage from the base of the weekend, the custody of rural society. I believe, however, that in this bill, a fair compromise has been achieved, where local representatives will remain in the so-called regional councils as shown in counter-responses, although they will always be there in my section. In many cases, interest in rural society is very high, in some cases due to possible job structure, and in others because of the importance of protecting the environment around the community, which is less important. In this context, I have to make a significant comment to the rendering of the paper bill on top of the page. 36, in an explanation of 5th pars. which says, by permission of the president: So let's take care of our community's interests on the use of the resources in the coastal areas in which they live... It might be concluded that the Ministry believes that rural society is not also interested in or interests from coastal protection. I think this is wrong, and I've been misinformed by my rural society, as an example of the attitude of my rural society at Isafjörður in regard to fish farms in the glacier. Mr. President. There is also one major change in the bill under consideration from the previous council, which is now assumed to be acting by an environmental agency to receive an audience in the Regional Council. With all and great respect for environmental groups and the important work that they all do, I have to count in the highest sense that one interest group outranks other interests are assigned to a regional body, which must be considered to be in the value of a Regional Organization Committee. I think it is very important that the implementation of planning procedures is in the way that stakeholders are kept from final decisions in each structure committee, but in the strategy itself, as the highest level. A minister himself came in earlier, making sure that all views are presented. Of course, it can be said that it is good to have an environmental organization early in the planning of coastal areas, but it needs to be done in this way, as mentioned earlier, that it is quite abnormal. I would also be surprised to learn that an environmental organization would want to be responsible in this way and thus lose perhaps. a position in potential lawsuits. I also wondered why the representatives of such organizations should rather than other stakeholders be emissaries in the local council. Why, for example. Don't representatives of other stakeholders like a local organization or, if we go further, representatives of fish farmers? We can expect representatives of the main industry to feel that they have even greater claims than environmental organizations to have access to regional policies. On the other hand, if such requests occur, there may be a considerable number and the more reasonable way to ensure that they will be found in another way. If the idea is that they're in there because of the lawsuit, 2 mg. Ninety-one. The Act on Nature Protection, by permission of Presidents: The Court is responsible for those who have legal interests in relation to the requested decision and nature and environmental organization and an outdoor agency owned in Iceland, while members of the organization are 30 or more, and it is consistent with the purpose of the organization to protect the interests of the government. Mr. President. I also wondered how to do this. What if many environmental groups show interest in a session in these regional bodies? Who decides? Keep an organization in the region, e.g. More right to session than national demyelinating organization, etc.? It's also a matter of the right society as I came in earlier. Who is he? People and outdoor groups may also have a legal case. So, then, should they not also have an audience member of the Regional Council? Therefore, I would like to roll it up here and hope that the Environmental and Transport Committee will consider it. To meet the viewpoints of the bioavailability of environmental organizations, they can be mentioned separately as someone who would be obliged to consult the viewpoints, as defined in Article 7. The bill for special consultation with relevant rural areas on harmonisation of coastal areas and planning programmes under organizational legislation and port management policies. I think that would be a much more natural way to make sure that I am able to make sure that the rest of the environmental groups are more suitable than I second. Of course, we have to do all the organizational work to ensure that the most extensive consultation with all stakeholders has been successful in many ways. I'm expecting this view to appear in many committee reviews. I'd like to use this opportunity to encourage some people. Environment and transport committee members to change this in their discussion, creating the necessary reconciliation for the bill and marine and coastal planning.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u30	A respectable president. I agree with the members of Congress who have spoken here and are happy for the performance of this bill. I think it's a long time for us to look to the areas that are now playing a different and more important role in many rural society and will yet do in the future than we've gotten used to. It is certainly true, though, that in recent years, decades, and centuries, the rural communities have built their produce in their area of the sea. They thus grew up, and there they have often enjoyed a measure of survival. Now, a new force that is about to matter a great deal and will no doubt be of great importance in the future, the fish fire. On the basis of this court of law, if we can say, as the rural communities must have been in their area, I feel that the views there have been normal, that the planning will be at the scene of the rural society. That happens for many reasons. One is to form the one that needs to be coordinated in legislation that there are now great monuments to which it is reasonable for mine to have some kind of fees, the value of real estate fees paid by all the workers that are built at the dock site or in that town rather than there. The people of these rural communities have these activities in front of their eyes every day. They depend on their livelihood in this area and on this work as well as on others. There is a conflict in our keeping the rich organizational rights of our rural areas in such a way that in view of the changes in the area near the ocean, they are somehow excluded. It is not unusual, in itself, that such legislation should be taken in advance of the local community. In the past some years, or since the implementation of the environmental assessment laws, many of the tasks that are urgent, especially to the local people, have been held into some sort of hostage. Even at the last minute, sobriety appears. This will result in a delay and a huge social cost for individuals, making it highly suspicious of all legislation around these matters. It will also reflect the response of the local communities involved in this legal bill and this way, in which they do not trust that they will have some real effect despite the approach expected to be handled through the regional council, when the more part rests elsewhere, and they actually have no authority. There are so great interests that we must look to responsible people in the countryside and in the areas below, where they can exercise authority like other organizational authority in their neighborhood. This does not mean that everything should be free of these things and that some situations should not be allowed to suffer. Of course, we need to develop a bond. There is also the third element that causes suspicion, i.e. Participate to these regional conventions. I'd like to agree with those who have mentioned that part here. I don't see the evidence for their involvement any more than many other stakeholders. I was in charge of the rescue organization for many years. Why are the rescue forces not involved in the regional council? I think if we go out to these psalms, we don't see the end of the dispute that it could cause, we'll secure the rights of these organizations, the public to have access to matters through the charges we have in the law. A respectable president. At this point, I'm not going to give a long talk about it. As I've said before, and not just at this council, about a case we can't perform before, I have a clear understanding of the Supreme Court. A minister could not have handled the matter before. He is not to be accused of these things. It is in many places when men are starting a new field, and that understanding applies to us as far as the whole government is concerned. All of us should take a look at ourselves when we criticize it, some reason. Senators, we're late for this. This, of course, is only natural under the circumstances that have developed. However, it also means that we in the greater part and ministers in the government must accept that, in many cases, it is recommended, they go to Congress and they will be sought out, but they will not necessarily be completed in us. But that is the benefit of offering it, that is the benefit of starting the conquistador and further shortening the time of the hearing immediately in the fall and hastening the beginning of work, as well as the use of the summer to review the comments that have been received and to try to achieve greater agreement on such matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u31	V.E.G. President. First, I want to thank the two of them. The members of the council here spoke very highly for their material and good words. First of all, I'm glad that general reconciliation is the need to recommence the overall marine, coastal, coastal, and coastal legislation. I'm just gonna take what has happened here. I think I've responded to the approach of the rural society. In the light of a comment. paritaprevir As for Elíasdóttir, the lifesaver of Elijah's daughter, she was mentioned on page 30. 36 in the report, I'd like to point out that it wasn't directly against the communities in one way or another, as I understand it. Their interest in protecting territory was not to be diminished. I know it well myself, both in Western Europe and in Eastern Europe, that there is a wide interest in protecting the birds and other areas. With regard to environmental groups, they are given an emissary officer in the regional council to try to reduce tensions and conflicts so that cases will be further prevented in a lawsuit. I would like to point out, however, regarding a lawsuit in this case, that the organization that such a thing is not charged, because it ends with confirmation of a minister. On the other hand, there would be allowing divisions on the basis of the organization, such as fish farming and other things, that could be charged. The idea of putting representatives of an environmental organization there is to try to ensure their presence earlier in the process. I think that in this room we've all agreed that it would require improvement, just to reduce the tensions we've been experiencing. It is proper to point out whether more people should be no part of the business, the business, the local organization, and so forth. I've wondered if this might apply to a local organization, and I find that very interesting a suggestion; as I say, I have considered it myself. However, there is a fundamental difference between environmental organizations and the commercial organisations involved. Because the commercial industry has a financial advantage for the activities they take in these organizational areas, but environmental groups do not. They have social interests guided by environmental and natural protection. About what question? paritaprevir Elíasdóttir the Friðbjörg of Elisdótir, how many organizations would like to be represented, there is a set point in the Ministry, the consultation site of a union organization, an environmental organization which is usually asked to bring in and name any form of committees. I suppose that would be the way it should be. A little more with regard to organizational matters. I now state again that I am very willing to be examined by the Committee how to cope better with my rural society. I hear and feel that there is a great deal of desire among members of Congress. However, I would like to point out that this is in line with today's community line; the community organization, today's organisation, reaches the Network. The coastal region, which is being discussed here, is not in the organizational history of the rural communities today, and it is certainly being made available to the communities. But again: I'm really ready to see if there's any further landing here that would increase the area of the rural society. I want to agree with that with what. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son that it's bad that these matters are happening so late, but the work they did took only a certain amount of time, as the senator described. I'd like to mention, in the case of my office, that some new matter was planned to be brought into this council, and we got eight cases that I think can be considered kind. I'd like to conclude at the end a little bit about the importance that we work this case both fast and well and we'll get it done in spring. This has been called for by the rural communities and by the industry involved in a very long time. It is very important that we be able to engage in coastal zones for both East and West in the coming autumn. So I wish that the committee would be successful in their important work of working on the continued progress of this case. I believe there will be a great improvement in these important areas of employment and the important principles of protection in these areas. I think it's very important that these laws be done so that we can improve the overall structure of these areas. I want to finally thank you. For a very careful discussion with members of the committee, they wish well for the success of their work.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u32	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to correct a law of law No. 106/2000, assessment of environmental effects. The bill is based on a suggestion that the bill prepared by a group of personnel who were assigned to work the bill for changing the above environmental assessment laws due to the implementation of Directive 2014/52/EU. The implementation of the directive also calls for adjustments in organizational laws, No. 123/2010, and Environmental Assessment Act, No. 105/2006. The bill was published in the Management Board's consultation guide for introductions and comments, and some changes have been made in subsequent comments. In chapter 5 of this series of articles, we will consider comments on how to consult and make progress. The 2014/52/EU Directive went into effect on 16 May 2017. EFTA, ESA, has begun a trial against Iceland, where the directive has not yet been implemented correctly. In the United States, a brief opinion has been received from the EFTA Institute of Observation, where it is reported that there will be a case for the EFTA Court if Iceland is not completed. The bill suggests some changes in environmental impact assessments designed to enhance the cognition, quality and transparency of environmental assessments. Therefore, it is suggested that in the process of the assessment a more thorough presentation will be made. It is requested that the Agency be introduced electronically and that the Agency also suggests that the Agency's assessment and primary assessment report is carried out on their website. In addition, the legislation is proposed to simplify administration as a source of cohesion on the environmental assessment and the environment evaluation of the organization. The bill suggests that there is a need for expertise in the production and review of environmental data, on the other hand, that the employer ensures that the primary assessment report is prepared by qualified specialists, and on the other hand, that the Agency has access to or has access to the necessary expert knowledge in the review of data. The bill also includes the requirement for more detailed information in the primary assessment report and assessment report. In order to improve transparency and prevent conflicting interests, the bill suggests that rural management will include other members within the local administrations of the Commission making a complete decision on the assessment of activities when the community is itself a candidate. The bill suggests a change in the law's law on assessment. It is suggested that the permission team member be required to request the Agency's decision on whether the evaluation of the environment needs to be done in whole or in part if the application for the implementation of the application delivers its license after five years from the evaluation of the Agency's assessment of the environmental impact of the Agency. The current law holds that the license party needs to request a decision made by the Agency to review the assessment report if it has not been started within ten years. That time has been too long. The 2014/52 directive insists that version allowing the implementation of the Agency should ensure that environmental assessment is still applicable or available, by permission of the President, at the time of death, as stated in the Directive. In order to meet this obligation, Member States are permitted to set time limits on the environmental assessment. The five-year duration of the environmental assessment should be considered in which experience shows that, in most cases, implementation has been granted at the end of the five-year environmental assessment. In addition, in most cases environmental assessment has been conducted at over five years of age. It can also be noted that in the bill for a change in law No. 106/2000, which became law No. 74/2005, was originally suggested as a six-year basis for the possibility of environmental review. However, time was extended to ten years in the hands of the council in its own time. As noted earlier, experience has shown that in many cases this time can be too long and it is considered appropriate to plan for five years, as previously said. He responded to comments in consultations, but the bill assumed that this time was three years. In other words, it was extended to five years in the case of the Ministry after reviews were received. It is believed that the above changes can lead to a reduction in charges on licenses, since the origin of such charges is often attributed to the loss of environmental assessment, i.e. the word out - of - date. The bill also suggests the same time limit, i.e. Five years, these measures should apply to non-evaluable activities. This is because no such law can be found in the current law. If, after five years, the application for performance is carried out, the decision to not be evaluable should be repeated. The bill is concomitantly suggested that the period of implementation laid down in organizational laws be extended from one year to two. This will allow the Commission to extend scope for implementation and meet short-term observations in terms of a review of the report from 10 years to five years. The bill also suggests that when applying for projects that have already been submitted to environmental assessment, the earlier legislation on the review of the report will keep its value for three years from the implementation of new law. The bill is also suggested to provide more detailed requirements for permission of the Member States on granting permission for the evaluation of projects. The permission team must submit the opinion of the Agency, the evaluation of the environmental impact of the Agency, to the basis of permission. He should agree on a release form where the permission agreement between the permission and the results of the Organization's opinion is established and should be specifically reasoned on by the license if the decision is submitted. Further careful monitoring of the licence holder is also recommended by the execution of the Agency's legislation on counter-importation measures and monitoring in a manner authorised for evaluation procedures. The bill presents the new possibility that the Agency will be authorised to lay administrative guiltys on the manager if he has started a procedure without evaluating its environmental impact or without announcing it to the decision on food. The Agency will also be allowed to submit capital guiltys to an executive if they have misinformed the Agency on the implementation or environmental effects of the Agency. At the bill's contract, the Prime Minister's report on the repairs of economic violations, dated October 12, 2006, refers to administrative legislation, and chemical legislation, No. 61/2013. It is also stated in a clearer way than in the current legislation on the Agency's obligation to make clear of the practical options they have investigated and compared with the environmental impact. In addition, the candidate should specify the reasons for the main management of the environmental impact of the project. By means of the agreed bill the Agency will be allowed to combine environmental reporting initiatives with a report on the environmental assessment of strategies under organizational legislation and a report on the environmental assessments. It's the same with a presentation for the public as for the clients. Concomitant change of environmental impact assessments law is proposed to change the planning laws and laws on environmental assessments. It will also be permitted by the bill to combine environmental assessments which are obliged to be done under other laws as a result of the license of the Member States for specific environmental assessments under the legislation on environmental impact assessment. The above changes are thought to result in saving time and money and simple management practices around environmental impact assessments. A new section on the valuation of environmental impact is expected in the bill. It is suggested that specific measures be set up for the assessment of environmental impact. It contains every step starting with the preparation and payment of the assessment plan and ends with the opinion that the Agency's assessment of environmental impact is laid at the disposal of applications for approval. The information on environmental impact, which replaces the definition of the concept of the environment, is also provided in the section. The bill also contains provisions that include permission for the extension of time periods, the exception of environmental impact assessments, the restrictions of information consumption and the change in environmental impact assessments. The bill also presents a change to the Annex 2 of Law No. 106/2000 on the aspects to be taken into account in the assessment procedure. These changes are in accordance with the changes made by Directive 2014/52 of Annex III of Directive 2011/92. Finally, it is worth telling you that I have decided to go to a general review of environmental impact assessments, and I expect that work will start this year. As an example, a specific consideration of the threshold for assessment, the environmental assessment, and the need to simplify work on an assessment plan for some aspect of the occasion should be considered. A respectable president. I've traced the bill's main subject and suggested that it be at 1st. Pointed to why. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u33	A respectable president. I recommend a synopsis of the national policy strategy for the construction of infrastructure for the protection of nature and cultural memory of 2018 and 202029. Iceland is particularly rich with beautiful, unique nature and landscapes that tourists seek to see and experience. In a few years, tourism has grown very much and is now one of the most important occupations of the nation. Its main foundation is the use of a variety of natural and cultural qualities, which are especially the quality that attracts guests to the country. This requires new controls and effective action. On April 5, 2016, law No. 20/2016, on national development programmes to protect nature and cultural memory. The aim of the law is to develop and coordinate structure policies on structure, management and maintenance of infrastructure in the interest of nature protection and the protection of cultural memory due to the pressures of tourism and curfew. According to 1 0... The Council shall be submitted by the Council for a resolution on national policy agenda, but the plan shall be in accordance with the aim of the above-mentioned legislation, in line with the structure, management and maintenance of infrastructure for the protection of environmental protection and the protection of cultural memory. This should be done by a national policy programme to 12 years of age according to Article 3. ... whichis hereby submitted. At the same time, this three - year project program shall be under law according to Article 4. which is part of and within the frame of the 12-year plan. A national infrastructure strategy involves tourism, tourism, and tourist attractions and takes place in a country owned by State, rural society, and private citizens. Forests, in the sense of a law on national programmes, are designed to reduce pressures, prevent damage to nature and memory, and increase the safety of tourists. One is material infrastructure, which can improve the performance and safety of the individual due to increased tourism, such as parking lots, view windows, toilets, footpaths, and signs. However, these include immaterial structures, including communication regulations, management, and possession. I will now follow a few dates on the job process. On March 18, 2016, the law was No. On April 5 of that year, 20/2016 approved at the General Assembly. On June 20, 2016, the current Environment and Resource Minister has appointed the national programme management in line with Article 5. track No. 20/2016 and started then even win the national policy programme recommended here. As well as a representative of the Environment and Resource Minister, the Ministry of Education and Culture, the Travel Minister, the Prime Minister and the Union of Iceland. On February 9, 2017, the advisory committee was appointed according to Article 6. The infrastructure, the project was to be a project manager for counselling and consultation in preparing a national policy strategy to be 12 years old. From February 5 to March 19, 2018, a work programme was conducted on the basis of proposals for the Agency, the public and the stakeholders to provide headlines on the facts and the environmental report of a decision-making programme. I'll take a closer look at my consultation process later on. In March 2018, the project management reported to the Minister on the proposal to the developer of infrastructure for the protection of nature and cultural memory. The report of the project management, along with the environmental report and the overview of the reports received in the reporting process, is included in the documents of the Parliamentary Directive I recommend here. Ideas and future vision of the national policy programme are based on several main reasons: First of all, the policy presented here is the main reason that the natural and cultural health of the country should be protected and, when it comes to the utilisation of the quality contained in it, always look to standards for sustainability. A significant part of the most important nature and culture in the country for which tourists are attending is also under the law of peace declared or otherwise protected. Second, this policy also rests on the main reason that tourism is an important means of many opportunities, and it is of great importance to the economy and well - being of Icelandic society, as well as to building up. Third, policy development has to be followed by a balance between protecting nature and culture, as well as their uses for tourism where appropriate. This should not have to be incompatible with goals, but the fact is that tourism in Iceland is based on the image that here is available, and it is also an unscrupulous nature with adequate protection. Thus, all means to avoid loss of natural and cultural resources are to be searched for in the utilisation of tourism. In this way you can help tourists to meet their expectations and that tourism can develop in a sustainable way. Fourth, it is of great importance that not all of us are beautiful and unique places in nature are built up but are also preserved by the quality of unmoved nature. The choice of local infrastructure measures must therefore be based on an understanding of the local nature, the nature of local tourism, protection values, organization and further policy. Well developed infrastructures in designated locations, regions, and paths followed by tourists in nature are one of the criteria for sustainable tourism in Iceland. Fifth, the interaction of public rights, property rights, increased tourism, and increasing tourism needs to be taken into account and a search for ways to control tourism. There is therefore an essential part of the infrastructure that needs to be built up for the protection of nature and culture but at various important sites, with a number of such factors being developed that pressures are severe. sixth, policy makers aim to work on increasing harmonization and perspective of the many institutions and organisations involved in these projects, including state and rural society, to look for many years at the same time, and to achieve a comprehensive and consistent view of the structure and structure of needed infrastructure. In the 3rd. track No. Regarding national programmes, 20/2016 says that in a policy-making programme to 12 years of age, policies and objectives for infrastructure are shaped for protection of nature and cultural memory. The suggestions presented here include policy-making goals and emphasis to work toward the progress of the strategy. The five priorities are management and sustainable development, protection of nature and cultural memory, security, planning and design, and tourism. At that time, sustainable development and the use of funds were guided. I'll take a closer look at the five subjects below. In addition, I presented my emphasis in line with Article 4. Section 3. The Act and were the following: In the areas and areas where peace-crowded and protecting the memory in which they are; in the places and areas under heavy pressures for tourists and nature and memory, to be seen; to promote landkeeping in order to protect nature and to protect nature and the service, and to be more closely involved in future activities; to manage traffic in the interests of nature and memory, and to be done in terms of public rights; to contribute to increased professionalism, the challenges of landscapes, improved planning and good work in building projects; to provide long-term vision, cooperation and co-ordination in the performance of the environment of the environment and to the environment of nature. As for a detailed review of the work of the project management, I would like to refer to her report, which is followed by the proposal. However, I would especially like to review the legal consultation and introduction process that took place before the proposal was submitted to me. As stated in the law of No. 20/2016 presented its projection report on the national policy programme in February 2018, as well as the environmental assessment programme in accordance with law No. 105/2006, the environmental assessments, providing institutions, public and stakeholders with the opportunity to provide statement on the subject. That scheme lasted six weeks, from February 5 to March 19, 2018. In this process of reporting, the projection received 16 reviews of a policy-based national programme, and seven reports were received through the environmental assessment of the programme. Is their contents tore up in an Annex with a report on a project management. I will briefly tore up the five main subjects involved in this Convention's resolution proposal and take up the selected examples of priorities defined within each subject. This is covered in a report with the proposal as well as a report of the project management. At the aim of management and sustainable development, there are four emphasises on operating laws and rules; national and local conventions; the tolerability of tourism and labels and communication. Among the emphasis is to review the law and the rules so that the availability of tourists in the natural world could be better controlled, including the possession of extraneous cruise vessels and the opinions of wild animals. There is also further harmonization in such terms as signs and exchange of information on the delicate nature of the country, especially in a digital way. For the aim of protecting nature and cultural memory, three key factors are presented, which are the management and protection of nature and cultural memory; oversight, responsibility and ownership, and evaluation of pressures, conditions, and needs. Among the emphasis is to further contribute to the projecting of the strategy for the protection of tourist attractions, to define tourists in a tourist position, and to implement such oversight responsibilities, and to assess the status of tourism at regular intervals. For the purpose of safety, there are five key elements set out, and these are safety rules; oversight and responsibility; assessment of the safety of tourists; safety of infrastructure and coordination. Among the emphasis is to ensure that there are sound rules and plans for safety in tourist areas associated with the national programme and to help clarify the responsibility of the caregivers on various aspects of the safety. For the purpose of planning and design, there are five emphasises, such as the design of rural society; design, superiority, and location of material infrastructure; choice of materials; professional knowledge and coordination. Among the emphasis is the organizational issues in which rural communities are responsible. It is also strongly encouraged to promote professional knowledge on all aspects of tourism infrastructure, such as the quality of landscape design, cohesion of matter to a closer environment, so that there is support for local, local, and observation of the visitors. The objective of tourism is made up of two priorities, a policy on walking routes and their management and the management of tourism. Among the emphasis is the development of hierarchical resources, with the aim of developing a network of tourists with a defined oversightal responsibility and adequate infrastructure. As I mentioned earlier, I'd especially like to go to the beach guard. I think it's desirable that we run slowly in the process of building things that can change the appearance of places in the long run. A vital control tool, then, is a fast - paced action that does not leave behind signs for long periods of time. Therefore, it is important to continue to develop and organise groundkeeping in order to achieve the objectives of these laws. Of course, at the same time, it is important to build places around the country in tourist areas, with respect to infrastructure. At the end, I want to reiterate how important it is to have a comprehensive long - term policy on building structures for the protection of nature and cultural memory at places visited by tourists. With this work, I believe we are taking a big step forward in managing this big subject, and I would like to thank especially all of the many things that this work has come from public, business, and community organisations. A respectable president. Here I have explained the main point of this proposal and suggest that it be followed by a previous siege. Pointed to why. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u34	A respectable president. First, I'd like to thank the Minister for a fine review of this synonym. What I would like to ask at the outset, so I understand further coverage and speculation about this plan, about private property. Is it correct for me to understand with areas that may fall under this program and in private interest, that a person can make a decision not to participate in the program? If I have any beautiful pond that could fit in some way, it's in my property and the state or any of the slots mentioned in the program, I could just say no, please?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u35	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson for the counter-sponsored. Yeah, you're right. To be honest, a private person needs to wish for it through a rural society if he wants his pond or whatever phenomenon to enter there on a strategy for building infrastructure. But I want to point 'em. A senator notices that after the travel - service fund was changed a year or two years ago, there is also the possibility of getting a private member to apply for strength to build up in tourist areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u36	A respectable president. If a private member decides not to participate or wish to be a part of this, is he in some way forfeiting his right to apply for some kind of strength, financing, or one of those things by the State?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u37	V.E.G. President. No, really, he's not trying to forfeit his rights because he can apply for a tourist position, and later he could come through the local community. Farmers submit suggestions to the national programme on areas to which they would like to be taken. In some cases it may be a private area. The person doesn't commit his rights, maybe he'll find out later, and something like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u38	A respectable president. I'm glad that this council proposal has come up and thanks to the highest degree. Minister for his excellent story. True, if the proposed proposal is accepted, we will have a great privilege and many that are difficult to answer, including all. Laws and rules that need to be followed. One of the best things I know. I'm sure a minister agrees with me that we Icelanders have a delicate cord when it comes to a free journey across the country. We would like to travel our own country as free as possible. Of course property rights need to be taken into account, etc. I see, however, that there are limits. The law and the rules will be considered when it comes to protecting areas that I completely understand. One reason I put myself against the natural pass was because I didn't understand the ideologies that I had to have some special ID up my pocket in order to travel through the country. When it comes to controlling traffic and limiting it, nature protection issues are being considered primarily, I think the highest. Minister is declaring it. Then I ask, "How will he make sure that we are doing okay in the country and keep the holy order that is free of our own country? '
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u39	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for a very good entry here. It's absolutely true that there are many projects waiting for us, and I think this is one of the more important projects that will follow. It began work in the Ministry last October. If I recall correctly, before entering the Ministry, where I work on a preliminary law on the Protection Act of nature, to try to better explain the public rights in terms of organized travel services that try to distinguish between Jón and Gunna, if I may say so, me and you, me and you, me and why. Senator, I apologize for this centuries' trial of the country's past and then for travellers in organized groups. I hope to provide the bill of this material in the fall, where this will be tried, where at the same time, it will be tried to keep this right common people around their land, in view of the laws that the country holds on public rights, and at the same time to put these matters on a better pace in regard to organized trips. I'd like to mention in this context that it also takes my opinion to make changes that will increase the P.R. after the changes made to 2015 on the law and may have been stored at the discretion of the Environment and Transport Committee at its time. I am well aware that these matters need careful attention and will try to do so with zeal.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u40	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister very much for the answer, especially the latter part. What a joy it is to know that it is in preparation to strengthen the public rights! There is one more question, perhaps in all of this, about the time of oversight, responsibility, and possession. This is a section that says that governments will act against the sale of land and/or construction policies, including the U.S. to resolve differences, etc. I can in itself quite understand that, we have, as a recent example, but I'm on the other wing and wonder if the highest. Minister can agree with me when I claim it's at least can give evidence that protection is better in the hands of private people than the government. Let's think about it sometime. I'm also thinking in general about government ownership, not only when it comes to solving differences such as those mentioned, but also that there are hundreds of earths on which the state has, indiscriminate soils, demolitions, some of which are reasonable and right that the state has, historical or out of some nature protection principle, etc., but a large proportion of these authorities are in such a way that there is no evidence that the state holds possession of them. I would have thought it should be part of some kind of policy, that it's at least pointed out in national policy policies that the country generally has its own policies when it comes to land in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u41	V.E.G. President. In terms of holding on to nature protection, I think we can look to various ways, to be honest. I think it's important that we continue to own a government that we're protecting, but I also point out that nature protection is a form of protection not only for tourism but also for people's experiences and outdoor existence. You can also refer to the protection of nature for yourself. In the protection Act, individual parties are expected to be negotiated for regional oversight, so it may be said that already it is possible to enter into such an environment. I can also name Lake Bay, a park where some landowners make a deal with the park. Their territory will really be inside it. Of course, they often have some activities, such as tourism or such. Then there is a very interesting point. A senator entered the realm's land. You wonder about their oversight. The environmental protection environment is very widely distributed today, with the EEA, the Waterland and the Þingvaval Park, we have a special law on Brenufjörður and the Moy Lake specialties and Luxau, which are actually directed by the EEA. Should the State's land be owned by some institution or by some one government? You could add the national forests, land transplant areas, etc. But these are future depressions that would be very pleasant to discuss with you. A senator with good shit.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u42	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Ministers are very, very happy to bring this proposal into the council. I see in the package that the report of a project report, which I expect the proposal is largely based on, dated in March 2018. V.E.G. A minister has not asked for the message but has made this suggestion. What may cause you to worry about this - now I know that a very good group of people has come to this proposal - is that this proposal has been in progress for two years, and in fact it's just a prelude. It says: "It is suggested that the sun be filled with water. " It's very well done, but it's a bad thing that the first three-year plan is not to follow it. On page 18. 9 of the report says, with permission of the president: As mentioned, a three-year project program, which is part of and within the framework of the 12 year schedule, should be carried out. I don't think it's a good idea that this isn't part of the program. I don't think it was in any of the other documents either, but I wasn't aware of it. V.E.G. A minister will correct me if I'm wrong. Of course, we are paying for the distribution of his rule. Well, we have Environment Minister, EEA; we have a travel minister, and it in itself is extremely bad when control of such a major cause is as widespread as it is today. I remember that in my former life, I was traveling through Latvia with the Environment Ministry; there was traveling under the Environment Ministry; and in fact, community service. There is also one thing we need to be open to, i.e. trying to do something more so that these limited powers are not as scattered as they are. This also means that those who serve in this article are constantly running all over to apply for permission, to receive service. They are never sure where to carry them. And even if it's not related to this case, when we changed the law here three years ago, in an effort to establish a link to homework, we didn't have a chance to check that it was in order to be simple and on one hand. No, we had to have that rerouted. The result? There are 310 of 3500 in the country that are recorded and paid taxes. This is one example of how we seem to be inclined to choose the longest possible approach to things that we need to do and that we need to do quickly. Then comes the time for what I was about to point to the next page. 11 The report lists the sum of this proposal for the next three years, 660 million dollars. In a year that's naturally too much, far too small. I say again, it's not at the top. Minister to accuse him, he's only been in this office for a few months. The person standing here takes his part because he was supporting the government for four years before, who did nothing, nothing, to bring in a special fee for tourists. I am under the responsibility of seeing that the minister of the then action party did not suggest any suggestion to try to achieve a currency that was both efficient and simple. What is so evident in the Treaty is that a person is going to want to consider whether or not he can pay special fees for tourists, such as coming or leaving expenses. And when do we start it? Well, work should be over 2020. But we just don't have this time, I'm sorry. Because as many tourists as they come into the country each year, the amount of wounds that become larger and larger and more difficult to heal leaves behind, unfortunately. This is at least decades of neglect. Again I say, I'm not focusing this on the best of them. Minister now seated. What I'm saying is, we can't wait until 2020 to get paid on the tourist side so that large, building projects can be built up to protect nature in Iceland. And that's another thing, because I agree with it. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason said earlier, on free journeys around the country: Me and the Icelanders are a little split up when it comes to this. Yes, we would like to have free passage around the country, dream of walking in the corner of the land, and break ice on a stream to get us to drink and catch fish on the side of a snowy mat. It's very romantic. But the oldest legal excerpt involved was made at 40 o'clock. there were people in the land who walked between sheepskins or rode a horse between parts of the land. Speaking of the fact that a law letter is a child of its time, and this one has done quite well, it wasn't done for the fact that there were 350 of you. a man and a half million tourists who came here every year. It was just not like that. I am convinced that we should try to learn from what foreign countries have done best. I'm quite convinced that we could, for example. looking for a German carpenter. We could look for a carpenter from the United States who's got their territory planned. They collect, but the areas are also arranged, and they are to travel in such a way that there is no question of which to choose between the traveller's rights and the rights of nature. Of course, this should be an example for us, and we should not be afraid to seek that knowledge. I heard four years ago about a German man who has a connection to Iceland who has helped Africans build one eight or twelve national parks. Of course, we should look for men who have this knowledge. We should not always try to invent everything ourselves. These things have been done very well, very often before. Of course, this interpretation proposal is a good first step, but we're just so fucked up on the next step. That's why, as I said before, we can't wait until 2020 to pick up any dues or excommunications. We need to establish a law about it now, if not at this council then in the fall council, and let it go into effect on January 1, 2019. Then, naturally, we have to collect from this black job that I pointed to earlier, which was shown in a report last week that it was about 20 billion last year. If we assume that this 10% of our activity is the largest in the sector and they have more than 25 to 30% of all the room I was talking about earlier, there are still 14 to 15 billion left as taxes and duties are not returned. Besides the security offered, there is nothing, for much of this place has not been taken out of firemen. As long as we act this way, we cannot expect to succeed. Of course it goes this way at the end, and I'm not going to agree with those who think that tourism can fall down here at no time, that this experience that humans are looking for will wither and disappear, if we don't watch it. Thank the Minister very much for this proposal. But there is much to follow that we cannot wait long.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u43	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's croissant for this speech. I want to thank you, too, the highest. Minister for his transfer to the council arrangement. I listened to her and welcomed her, but I like to say something. paritaprevir Þorsteinn Sæmundsson says it's the beginning of a project that you don't provide for. I'd like to say something, because the senator talked about coming and leaving; I went up here in answer to industrial, tourism, and innovation the other day because of those charges. I'd like to ask the senator straight out - because he spoke of this as being on the program for the council in 2013-2016, and that didn't happen at all, and then also in the brief assembly of 2016 - if he can bring any advice to the government on this matter and why there was no decision on this. To me, this is a rather simple matter and would not have to be a problem with those who will pay the price, but I'm sure that they will help us to offer a better service far and wide around the country to receive visitors and such.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u44	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this answer. To me, this decision is very simple. It is very simple in itself to add either a coming or an exodus, e.g. a thousand bucks apiece, every ticket to Iceland, whether it's flying, on a ferry, on a cruise ship. Would this hurt someone? Maybe those who come here at the cheapest airport expenses, but for others, this wouldn't remember anything. At one time, I spoke to people who sell trips to Iceland and asked if they would damage them. They told me, "No, if the currency is simple, it's no problem selling it to foreigners." I've always thought about it here, and I've thought about it, and maybe I've proposed a bill of it, that this price, this thousand call, should possibly be called a natural fee, and it would be possible to sell the tourists who come here, to pay in itself that Iceland itself is like one huge park and that the price there would be used to protect Icelandic nature and to build a suitable facility for tourists. At one time, when the hosting fees were set here many long ago, a hundred call on the head, it was to be provided for the first year 320 million, went down to 80; very difficult to collect and the stay fee was the same in the corner, at a hotel that may cost 70 points. Call the night, and in the tent of Saturday. Floppy collects, hard work, animals. We don't need that. All we need is a simple collection that brings us the necessary income.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u45	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for that answer. I'll think of it, for this endless discussion of this matter at its time and up until now, that I sat several years ago at a seaside station in the west of Stykisholmi. Then it was talking about the cost of passengers carrying a ferry, a passenger transporter, who was very concerned with the management of the fine company, because it would be so expensive on the ferry. Those were some crowns. This took quite a long time because no decision was made. Then the decision was made, and no one noticed. I think it's that dot, all you have to do is make that decision. Advertisers who see the catch because it would be to raise their fares not to think it through. This would surely increase the travel movement to the country if we could improve the availability and services of the country far and wide with a better approach. A similar question arises: What does it take to make things all right? Then I mean natural transportation, parking lots, toilets, and stuff like that. Is that enough? And how much? This is what matters. The discussion has somehow gone out of the stomach and thighs, or flushs into the toilet that is going to connect, because of all this mess.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u46	V.E.G. President. This weekend's discussion of financial plans made it clear that we are far from ready to fulfill what we have to do in order to be welcome to tourists. For example, the so - called big offense on roads is below all caves. They have already identified the amount needed to get them out of harm's way. I also say again: We need to think this matter over as if it were a season. We are going to have these visitors over and over again. Hence, we need to make sure that their experiences and receptions are in a way that they want to come. In other words, we should not grapple with them blindly. We should not try to look for ways to try to make as many people as possible, most of them on as possible, on all, on all, on all of them, and on the contrary. We're not supposed to do this. They're supposed to make sure they're not done. I can't imagine that one of the nation's largest currency sources now, or this industry, is being blamed for that. It's annoying. Besides the fact that those in tourism, which are naturally a lot more things, that are standing up for all their taxes, are not sitting at the table as those who don't do it. This is a situation we should not offer anyone. That's why I say, "We're also supposed to be afraid of this. " There will come a time when we will have to use the mass limit. We should have started doing so at the most vulnerable and subject to the slightest reproach. We're just supposed to make these decisions and not be afraid of them. Because there's so much under there, as I say. We're going to have these same visitors over and over and over again. We will not be able to offer them a road they cannot drive around, and we will not be able to invite them to a toilet position, which may come up for a year. We must accept these people properly, but for that, we also need to pay our bills.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u47	Mr. President. The synoptic proposal we deal with, on a national policy plan, is important. I don't completely agree with everything that it says, but we can approach nature protection from various sides. We can talk about it from the moral side, i.e. of our duty to return the land to the next generation for at least not worse than we accepted. We can also refer to the beauty, the wild and unsatisfactory, the gift - giving salmon and trout rivers that I have enjoyed since I was a little boy, or the vast, highlands that I am so happy to enjoy every year, more than once and more than twice, or from public health, or from the emphasis on healthy environments, and access to wholesome air, water, food, etc. But we can also view natural protection from another economic perspective. I've slowly and more convinced myself and understood that nature protection is one of the biggest economic issues we've ever seen. This is a large economic project. These are important economic issues, i.e. If we just want to put a dollar and a dollar on everything, the protection such a thing is quite profitable. Because of economics, it makes sense, although not for other reasons. We can say that nature's protection and the profit we have become involved in, that we can support this very plan, even though we may be able to debate its unique forces. In recent years, I have made more and more money in the carpenter Birgir, the late Kjaran, the senator, the writer, the publisher, the practicalist, and the grandfather of Ármannsson, the son of Aarmann. The chairman of our party of independence, but in April 1970, he had the history of a bill to a new nature protection law. His message was not just timely 48 years ago; it is vital for us today. Then, as they hoped, Iceland could become a tourist country, and it would give us some support rather few of our economy, which was more dependent on the fish, and then there was one African power in the south of Straumsvík. At that time, there were a number of foreign tourists 60,000 a year, but the move would be profitable, profitable, as he called it, with a warning. By Mr. President's permission, I'd like to quote what the Birgir said in their ledger: But if the tourists don't get their wishes out, they're not just a decent place to stay, but rather to see an unstealed island, as Iceland does. Birgir see, the farmers believed that Iceland could be made a tourist country and that the source of income, as he put it, could be as profitable or more profitable than a major industry that had been working here for a few years. That man was right. Kjaran Kjaran's vision was far superior, and many of us would have listened better when he spoke. It was not until a year later that new nature protection laws were accomplished. I think it was also the right thing Birgir pointed out, as he said a year later in this hall, that we need to establish certain social rules for international and foreign tourists in connection with Iceland's nature. As he put it, with permission of the highest power. President: ◯ And we also have to make sure that the tourists, both from abroad and from abroad, are in a suitable position. It's cool to appease countries, and it's nice to start national parks, but at the same time, let's do it this way, that the people there have easy access and facilities are created as to what hygiene and other things are needed. That was less than 50 years ago, Mr. President. This speech could have been held here today, and that is why I quote it. As I said before, I'd say that more and more Icelanders are becoming aware of the potential for economic protection. Of course, because of her own emotional and moral reasons, we are supposed to be on nature protection just to bring the country back to as good or preferably better than we were given it, as I agreed in the beginning. There are also reasons, as the man would say, 'Comet's good business, ◯ Mr. President, to pursue nature protection. If we succeed, we will reap bountifully. Therefore, it is important that this sort of conjugal proposal be made here, policy-makers on national programmes, on the construction of infrastructure for the protection of nature and cultural memory. We may be able to identify individual teams, but I think that the main theme here is that we can all join together on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u48	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. A candidate for this talk was of great importance. In fact, there was one point that appeared in his opponent earlier. A minister who fired me up in this chair of speech, i.e. The question of the government's sale on Earth, of the state's soil, and so on. In my memory, both as a member of the state and as a member of the council, the lands owned by the State have been at home in three places in the administration system, if I recall correctly. First to the World Committee, then on the behalf of the National Aeronautics Office and the Environment Ministry, the last time I heard of it, I'd expect to be in some geological facility. The question is, what is it? In the first place, a senator considers how we should treat the many earths that have been owned by both genetics and other things, and with conditions that the State has and does not give up, whether we could make any effort to put these earths into a home and make it so that they will not fall down and be the same as they have been. It also contains something of value. Many of these earths are in many tourist resorts and could be very useful in uniting this and renting those people who are competitive and well - meaning; they could get out of the business that was suitable for both, i.e. both kingdoms and individuals. What does it say? A senator of that?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u49	Mr. President. I think I will and will. paritaprevir Navigator Sæmundsson is not far from each other in this material. I think it's between five and six hundred ground, or something like that, owned by the state. They vary. Some are desolate, others are new, some are built. Others belong to the government because we want it to be that way. We want certain land to belong to the State, land that is out of the question that others do not belong to the State, that we only share them. Fields, Jackstons, fields there, etc. There is strong evidence that the Kingdom belongs to the earth. However, this does not apply to much of the earth the Kingdom applies to whom we share it. The danger is that they become orphans. They are now orphans in a desk drawer in the Ministry of finance instead of allowing individuals, farmers sitting on the ground to have them by agreement, thus allowing them to get along with favorable contracts. I think it's wise to start there. It would also be wise to consider whether some of the ruined land are so that private workers could find use for them, such as for travel services, etc. The key point is that there must be logic, cultural logic, historical evidence, evidence from nature's principles of protection that the state has a place of land and that we are to protect such possessions. But we are also to say, "There is to be someone else. "
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u50	V.E.G. President. I think it's such a simple conservativeness that unites us, huh? A senator and me, but they smell the same thing, but not just on the other side, because the senator was still. said: "We're supposed to have some of the ground we're supposed to have all together. I wholeheartedly agree with him on this. I think that now very recently we lost one such piece of our hands that I believe the state should have entered, i.e. The Beasts of the Multistudes. At one time, a foreign man's interest in that earth was greatly disturbed. Finally, she ended up in a foreign home, another ethnic group - doesn't matter. However, at the time of the greatest mud storm on this earth and the greatest discussion, it was seen what humans were after; there is probably no earth in Iceland that has as much fresh water as those in the mountains. Now this has gone out of our hands, at least for now, unless the government offers the land's owner an offer he can't refuse and we buy the earth back. Then comes the question: How do the senator feel we should go far to this end? West of the Horn Coast is a country in private possession in a peaceful area, a country of peace. There are certain rules for selling on earth. Counts the senator, e.g. that we should make it hard to make sure that the Kingdom had a considerable amount of land to protect the area and to make sure that its traffic remains as we wish? That's when I'm talking about the government, i.e. so that, as has only been carried out, there are no risks of rushing onto ships and doing their part to further protect this area. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u51	Mr. President. I believe that it is in general that the earth is well owned by individuals, and individuals have shown through history that they are quite good and even better than the official, rural, or state, in order to protect themselves from nature. If I say so, for example. how to protect the Icelandic salmon population. I am convinced that if the salmon season in Iceland had been shared or Stateized, we would have little wild Icelandic salmon. It is the very right of possession that has provided a measure of protection. I'm not going to talk about Monsters in the Multis. I've been there quite many times. I don't understand and I don't understand why the state should own Grimes in particular, but I do believe that there is something else that should be considered, i.e. ... foreigncountry on Earth in Iceland. That's what worries me. If my information is correct, we'll most likely have the only liberal legislation when it comes to possession of foreign people on Icelandic soil. We have seen foreign wealthy people gather these lands with natural requirements, especially salmon food. That's what worries me. This may be necessary, and perhaps as a result of our consenting to this synonym to allow us to consider intensifying the general rule of possession of land in Iceland. That's what worries me. [[The president calls.]] But I am greater advocate of freedom in that matter than many in this chamber.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u52	V.E.G. President. Thank you. Congress members who have participated in the discussion today for the benefit of their advice. I'll have a moment to respond to what has been presented here. In a matter of what. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Gerstein, the Sæmundsson of Sæmund, said that it might be viewed as a prelude to what was to come. I think you're right. Here we are taking the first steps to shape the frame so important in order to cope with the subject. It is good, though, that we have arrived at a place where we can start to build on it. There is considerable work ahead of us. Only to respond to the first three-year strategy, it should be submitted not only to the Parliament but only to the existing environmental and transport committee. The information presented in the Parliamentary decrees on the amount is based on the amount that was guaranteed by budget 2018 and then to three years of age. Then in a financial program now, we assume that there will be an increase in financial support. Therefore, the strategy will be reviewed as soon as possible next year. It may be said that we are already the government to respond to what the Senator entered and criticized the lack of funds that I take lightly to have been in this regard. Also, I would like to point out that in these matters, of course, there is a need to consider that once the land is so damaged that it is being destroyed, there are laws in nature that enable us to simply shut it down temporarily. Hv. In recent times, members of the council have no doubt followed up on a discussion that had to be taken on such advice. It is very important to keep them inside but at the same time that we look to the future in order to build up our important resource. I can't agree more with that. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason on the economic aspects of nature protection. I say for myself that there is something in my heart that drives me to want to protect Icelandic nature and then something in my head that tells me it's also very sensible as well. A senator came in so nicely, even if only for economics, so I'll use his own word. Natural protection is profitable as it is. A senator said. In this context, I would like to point to the first study conducted on the economic effects of national parks in Iceland, about the cry of Snow, showing that its economic impacts were about 3.9 billion per year, of which 1.8 or so in the region would be about 9.9 billion per year. I think we'll see more research in that direction. I'm going to go to the Ministry to put money on these things so that they'll also become more attractive as a national community service. But I'm not gonna have this any further. I thank all members of the council who participated in a great deal for a very good discussion, and I think it's very important that we get this case moving fast and forward so that we can continue to work on the basis of this framework set out here and wish for it. The Environment and Transport Committee for the best in her work on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u53	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the speech. I'm not going to extend the case any further. We need to get something to eat. But I'd like to ask you one question, even two, about nature protection. I'm a nature protection man with a big N, even though I'm not branded green. But I have worked with nature, I have been a sailor, and I am also from islands, born of islands, and I know those aspects of nature well, since man has lived with them through the years and is now many and most have become desolate. And there have been times when this counsel has been taken, I know examples of peaceing islands, but they have gone very badly. Because they have grown up with weeds, such as rough and thin, and virtually all birdlike life is gone from those islands. These too need to be handled with caution. But my question is about national parks. I don't have anything to do with it, but I've heard that in our national parks our fox is Icelandic and that he gets to go through rough. It comes upon a bird, I have heard, and bird life in general. Is there any surveillance of foxes and minks in national parks? Will he be contained, or something like that? Can the Environment Minister teach us about this?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u54	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. When referred to here as a pacification, natural protection is really a great deal of shade or a note when it comes to how much peace or protection it contains, from being a very much calmness to being a protection where there are quite a number of different applications, such as bait, fishing, and other traditional applications that have been known for life. Regarding foxes, foxes, and minks, the mine is an alien species in Icelandic ecosystems, and in many places it is funded to try to cope with and reduce its spread. Regarding the fox, he is the only mammal here when the man arrived. In most peaceful areas, he enjoys immunity, is able to live in those areas without being caught. On the other hand, the minute is different. That's the big difference in most areas, anyway, as I know it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u55	V.E.G. President. I thank the Minister for this. Yes, the fox was here when we studied, the mink was moved to the country a few years later, so it does not have the same immunity as the fox evidently did. But what I feel is that it should not be considered as a cause of harm, such as. that a bird he lives on should not be allowed to live, is up, because the fox reigns in a ageless territory. I think that's very sad in the context of the mosaic must have lived in Iceland before we studied the country. He should have the same protection as the fox. It's just my opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u56	V.E.G. President. Thank you. I think what we're discussing may be primarily about how different types of ecosystems affect one another. So the birds here at the land mine have been in the same ecosystem as the fox, and they had some kind of communication between them, so that I can get to smudge, dynamite, between robbers and prey. I think it's something that's just part of normal progress in ecosystems, whether it's here or anywhere else. That's the explanation. Probably from the 1930's, the bottom came up here as a result of more damage, as it is thought to have caused more damage, as it is an adjunct to the ecosystem, thus having a more dramatic effect. Or more impact, we can say, on bird life and, in fact, more species like fish in rivers and lakes. This is, I think, an endless lot of strife, with the fox and the mink. I think I'll give it up for now. We'll talk about this sometime later.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u57	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a change in telecommunications law. The bill suggests that there will be changes due to payment for rates, both in the terms of the Post and Communications Act, No. 69/2003, as well as Communication, No. 81/2003, on the other hand, to reduce specific frequency charges and to alter the definition of currency and, on the other hand, for the extension of high-rates. That leads to a change in VI. section of the law on communication, which section deals with public service and specific communications services. The bill was composed in two parts, but it was combined in one bill for convenience. Changes in VI will first be explained. section of the Communications Act and subsequent changes due to receipt prior to rates. It is important that laws about communication be updated to an all - time public service. It should be noted that among those included in the public service, there is public telephone service, data transport services to a certain extent, phone numbers information services and communications services for users with special community needs, as well as emergency telephone response in the number 112. The administration of an international service as defined in communication laws has not changed since its definition in the subsequent European regulation since 2002. There have been significant technological advances since then, e.g. the establishment of high - speed grid services and fiber - optic cables. Current telecommunication laws require that all services have the right to network up to a minimum of 128 kilobytes per second, and this can be considered an adequate network connection today. As we have noted earlier, it is important to keep up with speeds of technology and to update laws on communication with an international service. Twenty-two-six. par. The bill consists of regulations aimed at changing the law in the case of public services. First, it is clear that the input of an international service does not reflect the minimal share service that is natural for users to be available in relation to the current technical level. Although there is no basis for new technologies and/or services provided under an international service, it is clear that legislation needs to be improved. This applies primarily to international data transfer services, but the law-defined data transfer rate does not allow a useful Internet service to be taken into account with the needs of users today and in the predictable future. Therefore, an up-to-date approach to the services of data transport within an international agency is required and makes the primary change to the particular services that Internet services should be technically able to perform rather than specify a minimum amount of data transport that the experience shows may result in rapid discontinuation. Second, it has to be noted that by means of the technological advances of recent years in communications, there has been an opening of opportunities for all services to provide more technical means than via telecommunication. In some cases, such technical solutions, e.g. Farnet service, be more practical than constant connections, and give the same good if not better service. This is especially true in case of law home and/or workplace associated with copper-system nerve and anywhere away from a telephone station or street cabinet. Therefore, in view of practicality and efficiency, it is appropriate to cancel the terms of the communications that bind all services to solid Internet technology. The change will not allow services to be confined to specific technologies, so it can be determined locally in each case how best to provide an international service. Such a change is also designed to reduce the number of requirements that are available today on the appointed public service providers, i.e. Milu ehf, the need to provide fixed Internet connections to law homes and workplaces, although others are equally good or better technical options are available. A respectable president. Next thing I'm going to do, I'm going to make an account of a change in currency for the sake of time. Remuneration changes are just as important as changes proposed for public service. Changes due to frequentity are three-item and are the first two in Article 1. The bill and the third one in Article 7. First, there is a change in annual charges for the use of frequencies paid to the post-Semittering and telecommunications agency. The changes proposed to the law on the Post and Communication Institute, on annual charges for frequencies, on the other hand, on fixed relationships and on mobile telephone networks. Such tents are intended to run to the Agency to cover part of the cost of telecommunications monitoring. It is reason to make changes in annual annual reductions with the primary objective of improving communication and the easy spread of communication. Remuneration of fixed particles through microwaves is suggested when used for the connections of individual buildings in rural areas, where the expense of connecting places with fiber optics is not ideal, or there is a delay in the development of fiber - optic cables. This will make it easier for candidates to connect in a different way. Individual areas, therefore, do not have to be left behind automatically in an organized update on whole territory communication. It is then suggested that there be a exchange of pay on the basis of the use of mobile telephone networks that the law more accurately reflects the value of the times than in the current law. Various factors can affect the value of different rates of burn. For example, a higher and shorter frequency range usually includes more building costs. This requires a much larger proportion of the frequency range due to each frequency index in the higher frequency range and where annual costs are based on how many megahertuzums are assigned due to a set of frequencies it is expected that the rates of the higher frequency range would be burdensome, even to reduce the build-up of communications. A more precise way in which the frequencies of public communication networks in relation to such views can be used to create the necessary incentive for market edification. Second, the plan is to create a change in the share of currency for the frequency extracts. Experience of the distribution of the times for a network of public communications, especially a wireless access network for a fixed connection point, has shown that the cutoff of the currency of existing legislation is not entirely appropriate. In fact, it is thought that the costs for frequency use are higher in the most densely populated area of the country, i.e. capital area. However, this area is marked as southwestern country from Southnes to Acdérus. As a result, less urban cities in this area become more currency than chemicals are available. For this reason, it is reasonable that the capital area should be more precise in the law and that the rural communities should be designated in particular the higher rate of bankruptcy. Third, the frequency in question is 7. The bill discussed reassignment in the form of resource bills due to the redesignment of a particular era. This is a new provisional law on communication. Remuneration is normal for the use of these components of the frequency root. In terms of payable rate rights, it has generally been required to allow temporary reimbursement in temporary terms, provided the distribution of different rates of burn may be different. Longevity rates are limited resources, and such frequent use can mean considerable financial value. In many parts of the world, there is a tremendous amount of money that is going on. The number of markets, but also many countries, needs to match the incidences with other countries that share with them. The different parts of the frequency feature have different properties and thus differ. It is evident from previous projects and international comparisons that the price of the frequency range proposed in the bill is moderate, even if it takes into account well - equipped communications companies from an appeal number. The tax returns in the bill are comparable to what has been practiced in the past. The cost of mobile service in Iceland cannot be estimated as a burden for market users, with the most efficient cost in Europe. A respectable president. The changes proposed by the bill are marked together. To contribute to the aims of the telecommunication programme and national edifices through the rural fiber structure, Iceland's campaign light - related. The changes are designed to promote more reasonable payment and to promote communication. Here I have explained the subject of the bill and suggest that it be followed by this discussion referred to why. Environment and Transport Committee and 2nd Environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u58	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalise the changing of various laws due to international release on the work conditions of passengers. (b) Why is this so important? No. 35/1985, Icelandic passenger and shipping laws, No. 76/2001, and shipping law, No. 47/2003, in order to validate the worldwide release. The International Release comes from the International Labour Organization and was adopted at the Agency Council of 94th in 2006. Iceland was among members of the council. Two changes have been made in the agreed terms 2014 and 2016. It is aimed at validation of the agreed agreement here on the issues committed to Member States, i.e. The rules and rules of the rules to take into account the changes made in 2014 and 2016. Recognition of the approved specific instructions is not being made, as they are not committed to Member States. So the bill suggests only minimal changes in the law. If the bill is to be legalized, adjustments must be made to regulations in the field and therefore shape policies in certain cases. The agreed bill and the changes in regulations and policy are the basis for validation of the agreed agreement. It should be noted, however, that many of the regulations agreed upon by the board are already filled with Icelandic rights. As mentioned earlier, the approval takes place on passengers who are employees on passenger and freight ships. The agreement will be divided into five chapters, and it will be explained to each section by which law changes are proposed in the bill on their behalf. The first chapter of the contract contains minimal requirements that passengers must meet in order to board ships. The chapter contains four rules, i.e. Rules 1.1 on minimum age, rule 1.2 on doctor's proof, rule 1.3 on education, training and ability and rule 1.4 on registration and advice. The bill suggests a 3 mg change. Section 8. Seaman song on rule 1.1, 4. legalized the crews of Icelandic passenger ships and transport ships on rule 1.2 and new articles are submitted, Article 10. A same song, on rule 1.4. No adjustment was considered necessary on the basis of rule 1.3. Chapter 2 includes the requirements for recruitment. Chapters contain eight rules, rule 2.1 about the job contracts of passengers, rule 2.2 about pay, rule 2.3, worktime and rest time, rule 2.4, holiday course 2.5 about the end of the world, rule 2.6 about reform for passengers if ships are lost or lost, rule 2.7 about design and rule 2.8 about the possibility of career and professional skills, as well as the increase in job opportunities available to passengers. The bill suggests a change to 2.g. and 6. August), No. 35/1985, due to rule 2.1, change to 30. g. and 1st. 32. The same song on rule 2.2. This suggests that two new articles, 7th paragraph. "C" and "7." D, is included in the legislation of Icelandic passenger ships and freighters, No. 76/2001, on the grounds of Regulations 2.4 and 2.5. In addition, changes in 2kret are made. a seaman song because of the rules of the chapter. Legal modifications were considered unnecessary due to rule 2.3. On work time and rest time, due to the rule 2.6. On the rule of road reform if ships are lost or lost, due to rule 2.7. For rule 2.8. On the increase in careers and skills as well as the increase in employment instruments available to passengers, they must already be counted to be filled with Icelandic rights and/or the nature of policies rather than legal legislation. Chapter 3 contains rules about living quarters and hobbies, food and service. The chapter contains two rules, a rule 3.1 about living quarters, and a temporary position and rule 3.2 on food and service. The bill suggests a 3 mg change. Section 3. legislation on monitoring of ships due to rule 3.1 and 61th, respectively. Seaman song on rule 3.2. Chapter 4 contains health protection rules, medical care, well - being, and insurance protection. The chapter contains five rules. Protocol 4.1 about medical care on board ship and country, rule 4.2 on the responsibility of the workers, 4.3 on health protection, safety and accident prevention, rule 4.4 on access to national welfare centres and rule 4.5 on insurance protection. The bill suggests a change to 2.g. a seaman's shape, such as 333/4,41. par. The law also applies when it applies to those who do ships other than shipwork, and then a new article, Article 7. E, in addition to the legislation on the crews of Icelandic passenger ships and freight ships, which guarantee that all crews who sail under the Icelandic flag will have the same rights. Other material modifications were considered unnecessary because of the rules set out in this chapter, and the rules of this chapter must already be counted as valid, although some aspects of this section may need to be implemented, as well as others by regulations in order to validate its acceptance. For chapter 5, he contains responsibilities and execution procedures. The chapter contains three rules. Section 5.1 of the duties of the flag, rule 5.2 of state duty and rule 5.3 of duties in connection with labour management. Change of law is not necessary because of the rules presented in this section, except for Article 11. the bill, but when changing regulations in the field, care must be taken to validate the rules and criteria in order to validate the agreement. You should know that in your case, you should check that in your case. Legal on Transportation, Transport Administration, No. 119/2012, i.e. It should be noted that the Agency should monitor that Iceland meets at any given time the commitment recommended in international conventions, as per Article 3 of 1.mg. this article. That puts you in the 9th. The same law has to do with navigational activities. It is evident that the Agency is required to perform and comply with the rules agreed by chapter 5. A respectable president. As mentioned earlier, the bill suggests changes in sailors'law, the shape of Icelandic passenger ships and freight ships, and the law on the monitoring of ships. If the bill becomes the law and the necessary regulation changes followed, and policy achieves the approval goal of ensuring passengers the conditions for which the agreed. Although the main objective of the agreed agreement is to ensure specific rights for passengers, it is equally necessary for Iceland to conduct effective port management, i.e. monitor that other countries comply with the terms of the approval. When the approval of Iceland has been approved, the Grouping Agency will be able to access the Paris Convention's base on harbor control, which has to do with the points on the approval. Is access very important for all waterfront control. It should be possible for other countries of the North, i.e. Denmark, Finland, Norway, and Sweden all in recent years have validated the approval as well as a number of other European countries. According to information on the Homepage of the International Labour Organization, 84 countries have approved the approval and possess more than 91% of the world's seating chair relative to the number of grosstons. A respectable president. Here I have explained the subject of the bill and the international release involved and suggest that the bill be followed by this discussion referred to why. Environment and Transport Committee and 2nd Environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u59	A respectable president. It is with great pleasure that I now recommend a proposal for the resolution of a policy-based development program for the 2018-2024 period. The proposal has been in preparation for some time, and wide consultations across the country are behind it. It is the beginning of June 2015 that the General Assembly agreed to a new protocol and application plan, No. 69/2015. The aim of the law is to promote regional development and increase consultation between regional, national and administrative sectors, as well as to move to rural governments greater responsibilities on urban and social development areas. The legislation shall, under the law, describe the state's policies in regional and social coordination with other policies and public planning. It says, by permission of the president: The main objective of the programme shall be to match the opportunities of all the people of the country for employment and services, to balance standard of living and to promote sustainable development of countrywide. Special attention should be given to areas where people are chronically depressed, unemployment and monotonous jobs. Following the sentences of the law, preparations began to be developed for a new community plan. By letter, by day. March 9, 2016, a secretary of the Office formally assigned a groundwork plan under the new law. An open assembly process was emphasized by the Office. It was sought to determine how a structured plan should best be used by new laws as well as how the integration should be done in national conventions and plans for counselling. In January 2016, before the construction of a new community plan, members of the congregation were invited to a meeting in Reykjavík, where their emphasis was sought in regional matters. Special meetings were organized by councils, the Council's Management Board on community issues and other sources. At that time, each of the eight national body members met twice, each appointing a number of individuals from all sectors and territories and shape their application programmes. An open consultation was held on the website of the Based Agency where the data were available and all could offer suggestions, tips, and comments. In order to obtain an external focus on eutrophication, Iceland's future site was designed to analyze regional developments in the country until 2030, with the results being presented at an open meeting on September 27, 2016. At the same time, the Agency reviewed 93 official policy documents and plans for co-ordination. In addition, all recruitments were sent a log to fill up a discovery on the development of based programmes. The request was made that the plans of every Ministry be recorded, which led to the objectives of a structured program. In development, the attention was particularly focused on the action in strategy schemes that focused on meeting parts. A new strategy was submitted to Ministers in January 2017 or at the time of urbanization to the new Department of Transport and Regional Affairs. In the fall of 2017, a group was appointed to represent all the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs, Based on the Agency and the European Union for the full work of the Agency. That work was done in close collaboration with the Ministry and Board of Directors on Social Affairs. As suggested by a recommendation for a policy-making strategy for 2018,2024 was introduced to the government on March 2, 2018, followed by a resolution in all councils, followed by the consultation of the Council of Management Board on March 12. A total of 25 reviews received, and they were taken into account as far as possible. V.E.G. President. It is worth expressing appreciation for all those involved in this process of preparation and consultation. That contribution is important to the value and content of the plan. Similarly, I would like to express special satisfaction in how many rich and detailed reviews were received when the proposal was made for introductions in March. to the Board of Directors' Opportunities. In my mind, they confirm that high expectations are bound to be effective in this area. A structured plan is an important tool for governments at any given time to influence the progress and shape of national and regional policy. Thus, a core plan has been developed and adopted at the General Assembly as a synopsis since 1994. The government has great ambition in regional affairs. The Government Declaration carries it with him and with the plans of an individual minister, which includes: published in a financial program for the next year. We consider the land to be something of great value to be in a more prosperous land. The people of the land are to have equal access to services, employment opportunities, and incomes throughout the country. We want Iceland to be on the front of modern infrastructures, progressive services, valuables, equal quality of life, as well as strong rural areas that can handle local projects and provide economic and good services with the aims of sustainable development to guide the inhabitants. Basic services will be given to the inhabitants of the surrounding community as much as possible. In the capital area, the center of government and central services will be readily available to all the people. The structure will be integrated with other groups of subjects, as appropriate. This will be an impact on the development of individual communities and habitats and will be reviewed in all the policy and planning of the government. I think that the main projects in the urban areas of the next few years are going to have to cope with a decrease in the number of individual areas, monotonous employment life, technological changes, and development and adaptations for individual sectores. We also need to provide transportation and access to services. I think it's important to put special emphasis on an area that stands close in this context. By doing so, we contribute to the flourishing landscape throughout the earth. V.E.G. President. The production plan is now set forth for the first time by clear targets and measures. The goals are three. 1st Equal access to services. That may even happen. includes providing the most basic services in the neighbouring community and making provision for central services in individual parts of the country and across the country. 2. Just as much a chance for a job. It even hides. in addition to improved infrastructure, such as communication, transportation, and safety in electrical energy as a basis for a broad range of employment opportunities. 3. Achieving sustainable development from all over the country. It even hides. There are strong communities with a core of services, good access to education, a variety of employment life, a more intensive culture activity, and finally recreation. Defined are criteria that will be used to assess the effectiveness and progress of the programme. Average standards include the share of homes and companies in rural areas with access to fiber optics, the percentage of those within 30 miles of the clinic, elementary schools, day - to - day supplies and forwardage ratios. The status of these factors will be determined at the beginning of the based protocol and regularly monitored for changes in the timelines of the programme. There are many emphasises and measures designed to help achieve its goals. A total of 54 of the operations involved, or indirect, all the services of the bone department. Thus, the aim is to ensure integration of based programmes into most topic areas and the plans of the State. The actions also involve many activities of rural society, which also have a major impact on how we are able to implement this ambitious development program. It is now important to thank local, national, and national organisations for an important contribution to the development of this program. I'd like to conclude with a brief understanding of how we intend to ensure integration of regional programmes with other policies and plans. It is important that there is a close consultation between recruitment, government institutions, rural society, employment and civil society in the implementation of regional policy. The action taken in this regard is as follows: Regular discussions in the area of the government for the state and implementation of the building plan and the opportunity to integrate. A control group of the Council's Council on Social Affairs will be strengthened. A service card shows national access to a public service and will prepare a panel that will shed light on the status and progress of regional legislation. A close and practical consultation with the European Union and the national community. A regular report to the Generals will be assured. Finally: The systematic media of information, research, education and international comparisons. I stress that the implementation of the law on public financial matters will be specifically discussed based on the shape and contributions of the financial programme and the budget of each year. It is important that all of us put on built - up glasses as we study our plans and priorities. Fraternity of action is established by a structured strategy, e.g. The task of community-based fractures, funded by the community plan and the legal rights of the particular group, includes the work Iceland photorelated, i.e. In 2020, or entirely financed by the case, for example, a project on microinvolved activities. The budget is determined by each year's financial resources, but a proposal to finance from the development programme at each operation will take into account financial programmes. Thus, total funding on the budget is over 4 billion for this seven - year period. The total cost of all actions is not yet available. This will depend on both the financial resources each time and the closer cost estimates made in relation to a project program prior to each operation. The same principle applies, of course, to financing measures from the base plan. A respectable president. I've traced the main outline to a proposal for Congress resolution on the geographicity of 2018-2024. I am pleased with the document I set here for the high Council for further discussion and final payment. That's a lot of advice. A lot of people have helped. That's how we want to work. It will have results, especially in urban areas. Therefore, I suggest that the synopsis proposal will be followed by this discussion referred to why. Environment and Transport Committee and subsequent discussions.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u60	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for this fine story of this very important matter. There are a number of goals and projects that many would find especially important for the future. There are a number of aspects in the council arrangement that would be nice to discuss specifically with a minister. I will enter some of them in my talk afterward. But the ones I specifically wanted to ask the Minister in and the first thing that caught my attention is in II. section, D-involved B-parts, which are referred to as ensuring the collection of funds and maintenance of tourist facilities. Is this a goal that the government has agreed on how to pay for travel service? And then in tourist areas? Can a minister tell more about how to work toward that goal?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u61	A respectable president. As noted in the Government's declaration of policy, it is being carried out, and in fact it has been published in the news, in the press, in terms of coming or leaving expenses, or in such expenditures as tourists. It is being done in the travel Department, as has been shown at the council in a special discussion. Therefore, it is no secret that the government is all united behind its own policy, which is evident in the government covenant on such matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u62	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. But, actually, I don't quite get it. I know the debate naturally, like him on the charges of return and specifically looked up the government's policy in terms of reimbursement by tourists. But in the course, in an existing Parliamentary arrangement, which is now under discussion, there is a clean, well - chosen payment in tourist areas. Which I can't interpret as coming charges or anything like that. He might look at it. But there was another question, another thing I wanted to come up with in the second answer. In III. A chapter sounds like the last sentence, so, with the permission of the president: ▪ In implementing a law on public financial matters, the community will be specifically covered in the shape and contributions of the financial programme and the budget of each year. Something that is very much in harmony with our previous conversations. Minister of this room. But I'd like to roll that over with the highest. A minister would not be able to handle a similar route as an assessment of the equality of the bills, so that all prime particles will be fully detected or that the potential impact needs to be explained.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u63	A respectable president. As I stepped into the entrance or in my history, I believe it is important that when we're doing this policy, people need to put their built - down glasses on much more than they've ever done. Of course, this is especially true of all the Ministry, not only in the local ministry but also of the institutions. And that also applies to the Council. That's why there's an idea. The senator that when we're considering specific matters that in some way can relate to whether they have a different impact on the country's settlements, I think it's wise to make a point. And then at Generalist development, calling out for such information to ensure that we use this tool to be used, this ambitious plan, for it will certainly not work if we don't cooperate with it and use every opportunity to put the cohesive eyes on our noses.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u64	A respectable president. I welcome this groundwork, which is proposed at the General Assembly today, to strengthen the settlements and to keep the country inhabited, the whole country, and to strengthen especially those inhabited by great palaces. It's a great piece of paper, and it's detailed, and it doesn't need any of these promises, certainly it doesn't. It's dozens if not hundreds of teams listed there. Of course, I have some questions and thoughts that come to mind. First, about the power access of all the people of the country, i.e. for small industry, three phases of electricity. V.E.G. A secretary of transportation knows as well as I do that southern settlements have complained that they have to pay the so - called speed fees or at great expense for the change in equipment and tools. That's what it says in B.1. In terms of electricity compression: ◯ It must be given to provide the grant of a part of a quick fee... --is nothing more about it than to consider giving granting grants to balance this massive potential between those who are going to go to business on land and those in other countries? There are other things that I can think of. I'll fall, for example. I'm thinking about the parish plans. There are eight parts in the program, they are, and I have long had the idea I would like to ask: Has the minister or the government not considered setting the Western Islands there as a special part of the country, i.e. The ninth region?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u65	A respectable president. About your last question. Of course, a senator can be within a very different region, so there has been no particular view. Of course, Western girls are special in many ways. The same applies to the Eagle. The same applies to many areas on the West. Yet, they live under the same part of the country. Regarding the senator's speculations and questions about the use of electricity and its importance, it is absolutely correct, and it is discussed in this regional programme that if I remember correctly, they need to speed up the project, if I remember, it is not intended to complete until 2035. Actually, it's a significant improvement because when I came in here a few years ago it was supposed to take 60 or 70 years, so it's shorter. However, it is unacceptable long before the areas that are actually waiting for it now. On the one hand, work under the leadership of a man. paritaprevir The Haraldur - looking son of Benediktsson is working on these matters. However, the groundwork reports that when Iceland's projects finish light-related, we will have more money to play on this too, that the main objective is to speed up electricity production across the whole country, which is very important to create a variety of jobs and to promote a wide range of activities and more efficient activities.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u66	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A secretary of transportation for his answers I'm celebrating. I would like to encourage him to consider this idea and that the next time a program is reexamined, the Western Islands will be made into the ninth sector. That's totally fine. It's crowded in a small area, and there's a special sheriff and a county lawyer and a district court going out there, so there's a lot of special stuff out there. I encourage him to think about it anyway. Another question I was going to ask is the growth of a businessman. Is that particularly a program for the government? Or should the county's offices continue to be so salted up that they stay down and then breathe soon thereafter? This is a very important office in the country. This is often the only official in a large area. I'm the highest. A minister to protect this office and not let it get down as it is heading right now and has been in the past few years. I will inquire of birth in the inhabited earth. I am returned to the islands of the West. I saw in the plan the aim of ensuring access to services due to pregnancy and birth. I'm asking: Is there anything in the plan to make sure that, for example? Western eyes can feed their children in the Western Islands? Is that expected? Or do they have to make the enormous cost of going to the capital city for regular, tens of times a year, with even marriage mates and children, and staying in the capital every two to three weeks? One of the main and largest settlements, such as the highest. Of course, the secretary of transportation knows the transport. Now we know exactly how the transport program went. Then I ask: " What are these good words in this plan? Should they be financial or not? ' [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u67	A respectable president. Thank you. Senator. In fact, it was a number of questions that I could certainly not answer all in two minutes. In terms of financing, more funding is being put into a community plan and part of the 54, not hundreds, but 54 measures there, are just funded directly by the community plan. He's put more money in him. I think we can have about 500 million in the current year for such actions. They are earmarked for specific tasks. In other cases, in order to produce a fauna, a trust is involved. I can name Iceland's project light - related, with a population of 100 million in support of the communities, rural communities, which need further support, whether due to size or size. Then, too, there are projects that are largely funded by the Ministry. I mentioned in my speech microdoers, that can be true of other things too. Regarding births as well as labour. A senator asked about them, and I know that he will go through the discussion with professionals who have attended a council in the Southland and in the West. You often feel that it is completely unnatural that it is not as if it were where people could feed children everywhere. Now, a plan has actually been established in which people say: " We're not going to put up with every risk meal because we can do better. Hence, the direction we have witnessed has been chosen. When you suggest surgery in the Western Islands to address very few cases in the event of a high - risk birth that needs to be made into emperors suddenly, it is simply said that there will not be enough training in this place. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Then we'll be a little small when we're going to make a decision that we think is right, but the professional people say is wrong. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Therefore, this community plan is not suggested to set up an operating room in the Western Islands.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u68	Mr. President. We'll discuss a proposal to develop a strategy for 2018-2024. I must admit that I have a balanced optimistic view of the plans that have been made, and there is evidence of a structured plan, since the wonderful promises that have been made in a structured program have, unfortunately, not always been fulfilled. Men make extensive consultations and are well - meaning, but more often than not at the time of the item, there is no funding to follow up the plans that have been made in the community. In fact, a structure plan means that rural areas are competitive for people and businesses in their territory; to ensure the basic services that the inhabitants require and finance it, to provide transportation between areas, and to say that the minimal services available to the inhabitants of the country require today. Job life needs to support and enhance our variety. There's a lot hanging out on the line that's responsible for the governments and the communities themselves, how this interaction plays all together. So I think we're going out with an ambitious groundwork plan. Of course, if you tie up hope and wishes with it, you can only count on the next few years to reflect that law, to show your will. There are some things that are interesting. I have discussed in the discussions ideas of identifying a ministry in each of the nuclear regions and can mention an experiment, as is now being done in Thyatira, called the Blue Bank, where various public members meet in one place to fulfill their role as a ministerial servant. I think it's a very exciting experiment that needs to be followed by support and funding, both by state and by rural society. In addition, demand to comply with the work being done by every department involved. In times of trial, it has often been difficult to pull from planned public jobs, jobs without location. There's a lot of conservativeity going on. I hope this experiment to go into a different assignment is effective. This has been so often but not so that when a job goes abroad, local people have to fight with their mouths to keep their jobs. Sometimes two steps forward, one step back, and one step back, holding back the things that have been taken with great effort forever. Of course, walking is one of the key elements. It makes you wonder how you can support yourself like you would when you flew. The flight is part of a public transportation system in the country. Will we start implementing such ideas as have been mentioned, e.g. The Scottish way? I find it a very exciting way of doing experiments with them as soon as possible, there's nothing to wait for. This has been discussed in the General Assembly for quite some time, examining this Scottish route. I think it's a long time for an experiment to take place in this country. That would make a difference for an equation to live in. People in the country area need to make great use of the international flight to attend the various services in the capital area. National public transport needs to be supported by the fact that they can be kept on going as best they can. Many areas of the world seem to have given up a message in these areas. There are a number of factors, such as transport equations. I've been telling you that he's going to be replaced much more than he's ever been. He's been doing business in the export sector. I think we need to get it together. I understand that there is a basis for looking at support to other companies in the country, both trades and services that need to depend on transport, which will appear in the service and products of the citizens of the country. I think it has to be an equation that has to be applied to the sector. Then it is electrical energy delivery security. It is, of course, one of the most important things in the world. The eternal battle seems to be in operation. It's a thing we have to start supplying the end of how to secure the electrical transport system and improve the electrical security. As we have seen, we are on the opposite side with things like a three - phase electricity. In some areas where e.g. Agriculture is, let's say, as in my district, at the Minirus, where there are dairy farms, where farmers may be of the age that a new generation will not necessarily take over if there is not to be offered a three-phase electricity in that area. It is beyond the reach of such things after 15 years. If it doesn't happen within ten years, I think it's pretty hard to get jobs back on track in that area. We're competing there at a time, ensuring many of the land's naturalities at other locations in urban areas, to ensure continued residence. It flows quickly from the glass of time to that level. There's been a few things that have been introduced here and that can be talked about for a long time. I am and price and have been a great spokesman for the development of small boats in the country. I think it's one of the issues of small sealands of enormous importance. One of the cheapest ways to strengthen these coastal areas is to promote small boats around the country. It also requires variety and strengthens the foundations, allowing for the subsequent diversity of jobs. I believe things like an increase in coastal fishing are one of the cheap and disintegrating measures on the part of the government. At times, you may need to look at what you see in the discussion of building a house. It is not always necessary to invent a bicycle in those areas, although it is urgent to look to a variety of employment opportunities, education, and health care, road transport. There are sometimes opportunities that are open to people of all parts of the country that the government has to look up and take into account in the local discussion but not all too much control over it and make it out of the central government, but on the grasslands and call out for what local people think will be the best to build up. As I understood. A minister in his history in this matter has been very effective in his subsidiary. I hope this development program will help us build up and strengthen our country's settlements, for it is very important that we maintain stability in our habitats and our country's habitats.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u69	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir for her introductory. I was wondering a few things. The proposal reveals great ambition for regional affairs by the government. There is no doubt about it. But my main concern is whether these words have become empty, as was the case with a transport plan, whether they will be less effective with many of the things mentioned and will be heading toward. I sure hope not. A lot of this is really good. I want to ask you why. A senator on the move she mentioned, and I'm especially interested in, to the country. In fact, here in the capital area, this vast region and large area, we have 70-80% of all the population. We must stand guard over the settlements. The country - to - land transport process is complex. The first question is: Is there a desire to take organizations to shore? Has it been shot inundated with a misdeed in that area in the past few years, or is there something going on? I think that's often the only way, all you have to do is stand different, take longer and move in a different way, but maybe it was with a Fish Room. For the transport work, I also ask about the transport of tasks and specifically the transfer of tasks, e.g. to the county and to which government agencies are on the land now few. They're about eight in the country, and they're going down, as mentioned earlier. [[The president calls.]] Whether or not there is a plan to move.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u70	Mr. President. We're gonna go for a second. A senator will want to do business in the country, public work and general employment, and increase in the number of jobs in the country. Hv. At the end of his opposition to the county office, a senator spoke of the matter. I think it's a typical office that can handle various tasks. Then we will not be talking about transporting entire organizations. Rather, we will be able to strengthen our office by taking up the work they have done over the years and showing that it is a very careful work there, a capable person, and then a place and a place. This has increased these sites, which have taken on additional assignments and have been able to take to heart. There's a chance. I trust they'll work with them on a ground plan. Hv. A senator names organizations. I didn't like a single performance of the Fish Room - and now I smile at the top. Minister. I didn't like to tear up with the roots of an entire institution. It always requires much more conflict, and it's harder. Although this may eventually improve, it is much more action in itself and may be harmful to the group of people. Now, as I understand it, they're talking about establishing a National Park. Of course, she belongs on the land and fell into my district, so I'll just mention it to the people here. She'd have had a good fall to be, for example. In hell. But I think it's a good idea to strengthen public work in the country, and now all members of the Parliament need to follow it closely in financial terms.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u71	A respectable president. Thank you. Her senator answers. Regarding carrying projects to the county, experience with it a decade or more ago, when it was supposed to be done, furthering this office by moving to the county, it was successful. Only legal projects were brought to the county and usually just small projects. Some records, small records, small projects that called only in very few cases human beings. So I say again, I hope so. A senator agrees with me that it must then be a serious unit behind it and all the departments must participate in it. There is a lot of growth in rural areas if they succeed in reassigning projects to these institutions that are natural public institutions, often the only public institutions in large areas, and would keep them alive, they have a lot of other projects and are building down, as mentioned earlier. Hv. A senator spoke of something very interesting about new institutions. I want to say something. A senator says that when new institutions are set up, they will be placed ashore, with an increased will to do so. Then I'm talking about real willingness, that's what they do. I've been here for a few months, and I've repeatedly seen that a new office is to be set up, not perhaps a major office, but an office. Always been talking about it, always some sort of plot about it. Why is this not left to a far greater extent than has ever been? Has a what? A senator wondered that perhaps the best community case is moving the Ministry to the country? I'd especially like to mention, for example. Environment Ministry. Why can't it be in Akureyri? What does it look like? The senator of my suggestion?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u72	Mr. President. I just don't see any harm in the fact that the Environment Ministry was out in the country, whether in Akureyri, Isafa, or Egls, and assigned jobs to Reykjavík to keep balance in the country. But sometimes this means that it is farther off to Akureyri from Reykjavík than from Akureyri to Reykjavík, and that is true of many places across the country. Sadly, though, over the years there has been a great law of incorruption. Of course, every time it is political government that is responsible for what is being done. But I think we could have done much better in our time. It's a beam in the capital area. If everything continues to go along, that we are in a good place in the economy, we will continue to expand in the capital area, with plenty of employment. Under those conditions, we should put the sails together where it can be done in the capital area where jobs can be free of government location, in fact, anywhere in relation to modern technology. That's how I want politicians to think and not just bring up a good community plan as it is here, but follow it firmly each one in his own department. There should be some evidence at the end of each year about who does the best in these matters for the Ministry. He even got the favor points from the council to go to the country on vacation. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u73	Mr. President. I want to be the highest. The development of this proposal for a decision-making strategy for 2018-2024 is first welcomed by the secretary of transportation and rural management. There's not much more important for our country's settlements than having strong, clear ground plan, and I know the highest. The secretary of transportation and rural government has great ambition to look to the borders of the country. So it would have been a joy to stand here and also rejoice in the entire content of this proposed proposal, but while there are many good goals and measures, the feeling is somewhat like a document. Thus, there is a slight lack of internal harmony in the program and, in fact, it is as though it were written by many different persons, who in themselves are very positive, but no one has actually read the complete document with the intention of harmonizing the content. Thus, it is not to form a consistent wording of aims between chapters and new targets in the course without being listed in the focus phase and, in contrast, the aims of a phase without performing tasks or actions to work on the target, such as developing the target of Part A- force to encourage the use of a variety of sustainable means of transportation, such as walking and riding, which I see as a means of being unfavourable, as an example of shrinking between Aray and Iransafjörður. What may. is more serious than the objective of the same sector that's safe to transport across the country - but no action is found there. It may be done on purpose, but unfortunately it's how this is done and said to wake up at least Questions. Building policy, and hopefully in the minds of many, should be a top priority in the work of the State. So I have to admit, it's quite unusual to be here discussing regional policy now, but it's not until the fall of the road. Then, the communication program has not been recycled, but it ran out in 2014, which obviously has a significant impact on community discussions. Or you might look at other estimates, even though they are understandable to those who first come to mind. I'd like us to discuss them all right now, and I'd like to see that these plans go hand in hand and that we'd look at them whole, but my evaluation is that if we did well, these plans could work a tremendously well together to build up the country. However, it is good to pursue the development of the electrical energy system as well as to discuss the matter, but there is some progress in the development of electricity transport and distribution systems in suggesting that the structure of a strategy we discuss and that it is important to be checked together. So I think it would be desirable and beneficial - in fact, it would be fun if the head of the Environment and Transport Committee was here to listen to the discussion - if possible. The Environment and Transport Committee was simply asking for information and comments from other member committees of the Parliament on the existing Senate resolutions, as there are projects and policies in the litigators of most, if not all, professional committees of the Parliament. There are many good goals and projects in the Senate arrangement we discuss. Thus I rejoice that the Health and Health Plans should be administered according to a political program and that basic health and welfare services will be defined as and how the right of the people of the country to it will be guaranteed regardless of their habitat. I think it is really important that this is clear and settled, but I miss that action on this objective is defined in the phase of the proposal and responsibility for the implementation of it defined. I rejoice that public service is not to be won by policy, with the objective that, regardless of the population, the same availability as basic services. But I have to count the project a little low-dose funding, an estimated 3 billion. K. from a Based program to this project to work for three years. Then, like others, the emphasis on energy is expressed here. Senators have established, although they could certainly be more specific and with more measurable goals - or with a measurable goal above their heads. Or they could have a defined and specified financing. However, there is an exception to the operation B.1., about the development of electricity, of which some 400 million are proposed. K. from a well-targeted plan. I am somewhat troubled, though, by the manner in which the wording of the proposal is adhered. They are to be examined and conducted instead of simply. I hope, though, you can use the funding it defines to perform more than 400 million. K. will simply be checked. As I came along, I find it especially enjoyable to see both the goals and the actions in equalizing international airports and working as a suggestion, and I hope that the prices of aircraft fuels will be balanced in international airports. The situation today is very special. Hopefully this will lead to a real change, even at the end of this year, if I allow myself to be optimistic. Finally, there were two things that caught my attention right away at my first lecture, and I've come in a little bit before. First, there is a lack of indicators on progress in both the objectives and the initiatives as well as information on the funding of individual measures, with all due respect, rather ironicly considering that the first team of articles appears in the following, by permission of the president: As an assessment of the effectiveness of the protocols, success rates are limited because the strategy does not adhere to success criteria to a very limited extent. There is also very limited information on the financing of individual action. Therefore, whether or not individual actions have been performed is the primary measure. At the end of this same chapter, it says again by permission of the president: ▪ To shape the proposal presented, this experience was endeavored to take into account. Of 54 proposals, more than half, 30 suggestions are provided in the Senate action programme, which does not define measurable goals and 24 suggestions, just less than half, do not have information on the defined funding but refer only to the relevant Ministry. In terms of outcomes, there are only two in each section, six in total, and, first, they are very vague and second, simply not fully consistent with the goals set out there. The second caught my attention in connection with the plan of action is how many projects there are already called or even far off. Yet, even five to seven years of working are considered necessary. I think it would be more useful to set up new projects and I would have liked to see more innovation in approach to a structured plan and, of course, more emphasis on innovation over the head, e.g. food production and agriculture. There are a number of projects and goals that are involved in making a tip or working on something, instead of simply working on projects. This would be closer than spending more time predicting and reuting. I may be able to understand my speech as having a negative view of the contribution of a council proposal. I want to be sure that I'm not really doing that, and I want to reiterate my joy of being there and being here for a discussion. But I thought it best to take advantage of this opportunity because I'm not a member of the Environment and Transport Committee to review all the key factors that drew my attention and reiterate my idea of scurry. The Environment and Transport Committee will consult the National Committee and request their discussion on this Parliamentary resolution of a policy-making strategy where I especially believe this policy will be successful and achieve its greatest objective, what we all must agree on, i.e. to strengthen the country's settlements throughout the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u74	V.E.G. President. It seems to me that on a quick crossing, the strategy is disappearing over the course of the capital area and on the other hand, across the country. In fact, a few times the country is spoken of as a whole, corrosive six times in over 40 pages, but the first thing I saw was that the plan has brought about the equivalent of the cost of recreation to the capital. I wondered, " Is it better to level the cost of all those who want to pursue recreation, since it may well be that the capital population wants to get recreation outside the capital? ' It was just a small example of how things are set up, somehow a capital against the country. I want to talk about it from the community plan. It's health issues. It is a basic service that must be ensured in this structure. It discusses regional medicine and does not increase the number of doctors in the region. It's all about access to a self-proved basic service. I realize that doctors in the country may have to come to an emergency and therefore have to further educate them to do so. Such a study can become a reality in 2020. In the meantime, I think it's best to keep the contractor culture from doctors who were being discussed in the media the other day. In this regard, a report by the National Reconclusions on Iceland's Medical Insurance, which buyers, can be reminded that there is a lack of a targeted policy. It's only close to telepathy in the program and say Iceland can do better. Clearly, the work needs to be performed in a much more progressive way than is being preached, and I really hope that further application will be made to a health - care program that has been offered. Bioavailability to health care is completely unacceptable today. There is nothing natural about the need for people to travel long distances according to the required service and then not even get all the expenses paid. You can't cure everything through the dragnet. I wonder, though, if there could be no idea of increasing the speciality of hospitals around the country and moving the staff between them. In spite of all this, it is only better than the patients themselves. We are already familiar with examples of professional specialists who seem to be doing well where this is done. It is often said that all service to the country ends on the southwest corner. We know that people have been able to move from their homes just to have adequate basic services so that security is guaranteed. These and other factors are basic factors involved in equalizing access to services. I think it's very natural that these factors that I've talked about here, which, although only turn to very limited parts of regional policy, should be much better settled within the programme and then remain under the hat of a ground plan that affects Iceland all.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u75	A respectable president. I'm grateful that this council proposal has come out. It gives us the opportunity to discuss these important matters, the local language. Of course, it may be asked, " Is this not a government assignment that the Council and the Council are in place to carry out these things? Is there a need for a specific structure? ' But developing a structured plan gives us an opportunity to discuss these matters. I am happy to see how this development plan has been worked out, how much effort has been made, and how many have been involved. It only makes others responsible for enforcing such a piece of paper. It also moves others to think about these matters and to listen to them. You see, there has been a lack of coordination here so that there is a co-ordination between council and Senate committees. What is determined by the law and at one agency is moving down to the institutions of the Ministry and between segregations. I would like to start by referring to the project Mishalls. There, a building agency started with a very cool task, although it may be possible to argue about its name, Fragile based, whether it is too negative. An assignment was launched to determine which areas could be exposed to fragility. A program was started, and a project manager was installed. Then the project manager and the project found out what was needed to bring them back to life, as if it were not for Richard. Just say: You can just wait many years to get a triple charge - perhaps the basis for setting up a population that is considered to be fragile. It could not be set in order to be inhabited by those who would be the first to receive the light guide. It's this thing that needs to be completely downloaded. This needs to be followed. Similarly, when we separated politicians and police, and the enlarged county office and law enforcement agencies, which in many ways succeeded greatly, the police were especially effective in many parts of the country. A special legal committee under the president of the Ministry was then appointed to take assignments to the districts, to strengthen them. The main reason that these laws passed through the Allied Congress was that further work should be given to the county. The State Department was the only government agency involved in carrying jobs to the county and did not even make them as powerful as it would be, but did something. The other department didn't know anything about this. We need to make sure that such programs work all over the world and that they do not all end up in the institutions of Reykjavík and are controlled by the thinking that exists there. Why do I say that? Because it appears that the city of Reykjavík will have a tendency to grow but in the country, they will be reduced. It has always begun when you need to adjust or adjust, to cut down what is longest from the institutions of the institution. I've found this in my work here at the council. So when it comes to a highly practical and efficient union, members of Congress simply say no. No matter how cross-cutting it is to unite the relevant institutions; better for the project, better for the country because it combines them and makes them more powerful. Senators just say no. They have become afraid of this development, how it turns out differently. Various people are promised to be united, and there's nothing they can do about it, as I traced it down here with the politicians. It's very important this doesn't go on like this. This has created a lot of fear. There are many examples of this. There is something else that we need to keep in mind when working on such contrary issues. That's when we're doing some real business. What are some of the jobs that sustain the inhabited earth? This, of course, is agriculture, the fishing route, the tourism, and the energy - efficient industry. These are the main working roads all over the country, ensuring that the country is inhabited. It is very important that these trade routes are strong to keep the country inhabited and also to maintain interest in this society. It's just the most important economic industry. I'm telling you, if we hadn't had farmers all over the country, who had started farming services, we wouldn't have been able to accept the tourists when they arrived. We couldn't have received them so well that the land would be so well educated and the tourism would grow so fast as they did. For this, we were able to thank Icelandic farmers for their land. When we discuss the fishing route, the agriculture, especially these two sectors, it is always spoken of as being demarcated in Icelandic society, that they are to be paid much more or too expensive. Overworked on the seabed by overindulging in farmers'money, we are reducing the structure of our buildings. We're making everything difficult. We're arguing about money, which is a low percentage of the total financial resources. I can't believe it's possible to spend the same amount of time arguing about such small sums of money for such important jobs. For the public box, these are small sums, but for these jobs, they are enormously high and are important to their business. It is these two sectores that are most important to us in our environmental work. The marine road has already reached the Paris Convention's environmental objectives and is going to continue even better. I think we should get Icelandic farmers to reduce carbon emissions and bind carbon. Then we will achieve very rapid and successful results, strengthening back what we're discussing here, the settlements of the country. You see, I think our country's settlements can also be self-sustained. We don't necessarily have to talk about transporting institutions or making jobs if we just have their infrastructure in order, this infrastructure. If only we watch the roads, harbors, airports, and these transports are going naturally. All fiber optics need to be linked, at the beginning of their objective; electricity cleaning; we need education, and there can be a university out in the country. You don't have to unite everything in the University of Iceland in Reykjavík. It is evident that since the students learn the ideas, and there they will be working in the future. That is why it is very important for us to have a university in many lands and other educational opportunities. Medical services should be available through extramarital services. The external or medical services, ambulances, airplanes, and helicopters are one of the most important factors in today's development to balance national availability with best available health care. The remotest and intensive health centers throughout the country are extremely important, and the law and the officials I came in here. The police and the politicians are the only spokesmen in the country. It's important that this works. We must unite in these structures. Then I think the settlements of the country are a little self-employed, creating a job opportunity and a way to get their way through it. There I come again to what I'm talking about, to the institutions of Reykjavík, and to how my thinking must go through everything. It's a huge challenge to be in a fight with the Ministry to build up the Fish Technology School in Grindavík, which is teaching this basic working road all over the country, helping higher schools to offer more education for the people in the settlements to work with what they're raised by. That shouldn't be necessary. But I'd like to commend the highest. Minister, when he was a seafaring minister, he succeeded in the advances, using Fish Technology School. We have already fought for the Bifrost and the agricultural university at work. There's another one of these. It's an amazing educational network in many lands; the Ministry of Education has nothing to do with funding it. I'd like to say at the end, you can talk about community matters for so long, you can't do anything about it. The whole system has to take responsibility and keep this in mind all the time. I hope this council proposal, no matter how wide its consultations, will be the result of this being followed all the way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u76	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason for his next six - year discussion of a community plan. But I felt that he was an inactive observer of government policy over the last few years; that he was taken up in the separation of the county organizations and the police offices with good intentions, but nothing was carried out. He spoke like that. He'll have to correct me if I mistake him there. But I can agree with his opinion, if that's the way it is. I'm just pointing out why. A senator talks like an observer. [[Up front.]] He was in charge when this happened. This happened on independence patrol, police and county separation. If he has failed in some way, only himself is no one to be blamed. What happened to the separation of the county and police department? Mostly that the county office was left behind like a man buried in a hole in a desert. He just dries up. Money is not given to the county bodies, not to projects, except for about a year; a few tasks that had little to say. It needs to be in there. I hope so. A senator would agree with me in this and encourage me in the administration that assignments will be made seriously to these offices so that they will not die their Sovereign Lord. I ask him to answer if he wants to do so with me and others. There are also other things to be transferred, such as it is possible to transport organizations in one place or another. A senator came in. I'm asking if he has any opinions about that, any special institutions?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u77	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator of these questions. What I was discussing in my case earlier was that it is the General who determines the course and the authority does not follow. We set this as a law on the separation of the county and law enforcement agencies, that these projects should be initiated. The project then takes the authority not to follow it. That's what I was saying. Where I could influence, at what point. A top-of-the-art Board of Education, we put this into the law and we voted here in the chamber. What I'm talking about here is that when the Allied Council decides a policy, it should be followed by the Commission, which did not happen there. If one Ministry or Minister decides to establish priorities, it must be ensured that the Office of the Ministry follows that policy and after cases by other departments, as I brought in the Operation Freightals built up. There's a building agency, the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs subsystem, the mission, but it's not going to follow through the whole system. I'm talking about how you can see to it and make sure that such a good course is being carried out.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u78	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his answers. I want less of it. Similarly, a senator may not have made it clear before, that he is not just a member of the General Assembly but a member of the government. The administration authority is short of the constitution. Hv. A senator was in charge at that time and is still a member of a government class. They have the authority. If this is a problem, it may be slow to talk it over the board. Without law, better laws must be established. If they do not work and are not carried out, they must be made clear and follow the policy of government, which is reflected in the laws of the administration. I was going to use my time to ask questions other than this. It's about the funding of the county bodies, for example. What does it want? A senator comments on the ideas of moving projects that are in the same places as the Association, Work and Work, Fish Room, etc., and repeatedly sending people into the country with all the related costs? Is it not a good idea to move some of these things, perhaps the best fit, to the county service? Any of these projects, don't you think? Instead of getting paid, they travel through the country to do business here and there. What does it look like? A senator on this? For setting a course and not following it, I'd like to ask why. A senator about the Homes. The parks in our district, huh? Senator, are starving. It's one of the settlements. What does it want? A senator answers about supporting and strengthening our home?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u79	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying that I've talked a lot about reminding myself of the policies that were found in the law to bring these projects and to continue. I will continue to remind people whether they are ministers or officials or whatever they are and whatever they are, that it was the promise made. This is a policy approved by the Generals. It's to be followed. That's why I'm following the ideas as reason. A senator came in, carrying an assignment from the diverse institutions of the state. Also, special projects involving citizens' services. For example, they have a place in the county where people have to deliver or receive documents, such service at home. An electronic synopsis - if the project succeeds, it is the monotonous one to have it with the South American businessman. About another question, which came in the first time. A senator, of institutions and ideas to move safely to the country, I think we should set the focus. Organizations and government services are not the best available to the country. I think we should put the focus completely on building these shallow wood. Then the settlement will be self-sustained. It builds more valuable and progressive jobs than Kingdom service. In terms of the nature labs, I proudly report that we at the council were able to make contributions to them in the last budget. We need to continue to improve their share. They are important to us in these times when we are trying to map out how to protect our environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u80	Mr. President. We're here to discuss key issues, an important convolutation proposal on community issues. Clearly, many of these are improving, and it's different from previous plans. In particular, this strategy may be largely funded, not to six years of age, but to five years of age under a national budget. It will be the first time that such an important building program is funded in equal measure. Of course, it's a happy case, and it shows that the government has a finger on society's pulse in this regard. Clearly, the strength of this strategy is clearly seen in its careful cooperation. An example in this regard, like a program discussed earlier today. This is indicated by its consultation with rural governments, with group members of the rural communities themselves, even between 30 and 100 groups, and, of course, the Ministry that has access to it. Then this approach to the Ministry's consultations was open, there were indications. The 54 separate actions on the surface are set out with a price tag. It is also strange in part. It is both money from the community plan itself and from individual recruitments as appropriate. There's a lot of interesting and nice stuff in there. I'm going to let me read a little bit of this great piece of paper. We are here with a summary of these 54 actions. To mention just how wide this area is, I name the equation of energy costs and the speed of electricity compression. The transport system of electrical energy and improved energy security is here on the agenda, innovation in food industry; heat pumps delivery in cold areas, which is very important; jobs without locations that will switch to large areas; farms in which the government is expected to be activated for good; research and science; support for individuals, including through student loans; increased media in the province; list for all. So is the light link, or fiber - optics, specifically mentioned by a large amount; public transportation throughout the country and air as public transportation. And then I'm going to let me mention one missing point, and there's more hospital transportation in the country. I'm going back to the paper and I'm calling specific parish plans and break-in settlements. paritaprevir Will Árnason mentioned earlier; it will make a difference for many small communities. I'm calling on the field of proactive infrastructure in natural habitats, which have been described by men. It is noted that while building wood in many of these areas, there is a great lack of professionalism, so that the infrastructure grows old, is rapidly damaged, and is important for tourism in these areas. I mention regional medicine, to level access to services, and close services to immigrants, which I find to be a very beautiful statement here. Then to finish this off, I'm going to mention community housing plans and other women in the countryside. Then there is the Ministry's management team on community issues that are now being reorganized, following these issues. This is revised every three years, as shown by the Supreme Court. Ministers, as well as government consultations. I think it's a good job for me in all of this. I'm gonna let myself stay here with a reminder to the highest degree. Minister - he sits here in the hall - to take into account climate and equality in all these appropriate measures - that is just different, certainly, and in some places, so not entirely appropriate. And not only in climate and equality but also in what we can always call the right to service and to ensure continued progress in regional development in these areas. This arrangement now goes to the environment and transport committee, where we have a job to add what is missing, e.g. An assignment under the Ministry of Justice. I could name the police, or the law, rather. A case or procedure that would be appropriate for the State Department. Among other things, I have a work post in mind. In order to end my case, I'm going to ask a question of hope: I feel that changing the attitude of young people in the community is increasing. It is people who want to search outside the urban community and find closer society to raise and work on children. This is what I've perceived myself to be. I hope that other members of Parliament do the same, because there is also a certain hope, not only in the framework itself, that they will be able to stop people from leaving the country and turn the evolution around so that people will be slowly increased, which I think is a key to the future of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u81	A respectable president. Although I've come up here many times, I don't find this plan all the way to avoid, at all, it's a lot of good things. I would also like to mention that many local and regional areas have, of course, benefited from the growth of tourism, so the environment is much less than ten years ago in these issues. We're dealing with everything else but only ten years ago, so they say. What I was interested in asking why. A senator with regard to art and culture, which are of a wide variety of ways in the country, and many things strengthened and supported by the government. I mention, for example. symphonys, operas, museums, and so forth, I don't know how to mention it all, but I could seek learning when it comes to what is underneath. I want to ask you why. Of course, the senator's opinion of the access of people to these institutions, museums, and what all citizens of the country pay with their tax dollars. I don't think that's too much of a job to do by moving these institutions to a country, i.e. Events on their roads across the country. If I name the Icelandic opera and the Symphony, I know that something has been done about it, but I'd like to ask if they're up to C.15, where 32 million people are expected.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u82	Mr. President. I'd like to have a lot of control over this, i.e. I'd be some kind of art director of the country, but, of course, it's not like that. This field, the art of all the people in the midst of the land, is as nothing broken up. But I don't think it's that much of the business of moving institutions to shore, so I don't think that's what it is. A senator meant it, but moved events abroad. There I deeply agree, whether it is called a circuit show or a circuit concert, to use these important institutions, whether they are Iceland's art collection, operan, or anything else. I also think it's a much more multitasking and art class. It's, for example. An art program for disabled people. Art classes can also be promoted in schools. Then there are all the festivals in the country. We are well - aware that there is hardly anything based in Iceland that doesn't have some sort of musical or artistic event, such as. ... inSeylandandmore. I understand 330 shows and museums in this country. In that case, most numbers may be listed in the country rather than in the city of Reykjavík, so it is not enough to be taken away. I am convinced that when these funds and priorities become distributed, all of this will be considered more or less than five or six years of this plan, even though I have mentioned only a few of these.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u83	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir For his answers, Trausti Guðmundsson. Of course, I didn't mean moving the institutions. I was totally right by what I said. Senator. I was saying that these institutions, which are located here, often the largest and most powerful institutions that receive the highest money from the government, go that mine knows far too little on land. I just wanted to ask you if the money that is there, 32.5 million under C.15, is there any reason to subsidize these trips or is there anything else? I realize that there is. A senator may not have the answers. What, then, does he think of these institutions as moving further abroad? I know it costs a lot, but it's just that smaller settlements that may be far away from the capital area can't have many of these shares with capital citizens. I don't think there are many local museums that may be paid by the government, I don't think it's part of the local community that's paying at their expense, so the two may not be at odds. Something else I'd like to ask you. A senator's attitude regarding the transfer of tasks, projects, and institutions is to the country, since he himself mentioned it. What does he think of moving institutions to shore? What's his opinion of transporting the Environment Ministry, e.g. of the largest regional core outside of Reykjavík, i.e. To Akureyri? What's his opinion of this idea that came up here earlier to take it there? Of course, this would take some time and adjustment, but what would his view be? It would be to distribute power precisely, to distribute jobs, and to distribute knowledge that I think is just as important, that not all knowledge is at this angle of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u84	Mr. President. First of all, moving to the country where we can call cultural events or such. This, of course, depends on the situation. It's very difficult for a big band or national theater or the Icelandic dance party or any major cultural group doing this, except in some places. I don't think we'd agree that this is certainly a good thing. I can mention, for example. that each year the Norwegian National Theater has a plan to show certain exhibitions in the country. That, of course, is an example. But like a dog. A senator says, it costs money, so it has to be assumed. As far as deportations are concerned, I don't object to that. I can't take a stand on whether to transfer the resource department or anything else to land, because I can't imagine an answer unless I can get to that in close proximity, that's probably a very complex thing. But in general, I agree that agencies can be exported to shore. I suggest that the proposed National Park not be in Reykjavík, so I'll give you one example. In turn, however, some agencies in Reykjavík can have a large amount of work in the country. Of course, it has to do with fiber - opticization and other things, but the organisations need not always be exported, enough workers living elsewhere. It is not quite so simple, as you might feel at first, that the solutions are fundamentally important in transporting the institutions. It's also possible to do this in the way I'm describing it. In general, we can examine and get a good assessment of certain organizations. Then I'll take my stand or my turn, but this is how I can answer it in general. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u85	Mr. President. It would be nice to have an opportunity to discuss a judicial arrangement for a community plan until 2024. I am now made so that I would have approached the subject slightly different from the highest. Ministers, but that may not be surprising. You see, I would have chosen to be one word that would be the red thread all over the community plan, one word, and that is becoming free of choice. I repeat, freedom of choice. To give people real choices to decide where they would like to settle down - young people to go home, move to their homes, etc. Of course, it is, and it's not just in regional policy, that we should have what we want as a red thread in everything we do here at the Council to increase the freedom of choice of the citizens. To this it is also clear that sadly, our story, when it comes to geographic and geographic policy, is more like the way to destruction, which is protected from good intentions. There, all political parties are charged with the same responsibility. We here speak of strengthening the country's inhabited earth, and many of us have had wrong hands. It is good news, however, that for the first time in 150 years, people are growing in the country. While individual settlements and settlements may still face challenges, let us maintain that the population is growing in the country, or where we speak of the land. It is a deeply established opinion in this council hall, most likely in our community, that the State and the State play a key role when it comes to regional policy. I'm not questioning him, but I think we've learned a bit of a hard lesson in recent decades. We've wasted a lot of money together in the local name. For example, I have serious doubts about the fact that the purpose of the fishing industry has been achieved, rather than reducing the efficiency of the whole marine route. Of course, the cost is paid by the inhabitants of a rural society, where economic and economic efforts are practical and powerful. In response to community action, we will take the magic word into our country, which in my mind is most likely the worst policy of all. You see, I'm going to argue that a new community policy is primarily to invest in the interiors of society: good transportation, efficient communication systems, high - speed networks; a high - speed network; a high - quality health service, good education, and a strong law enforcement system. I think it's the best regional policy. We're supposed to realize that based policy will not be any different than having the primary presumption that this is a lucrative, powerful marine route and efficient and viable agriculture. Thus, a future policy cannot include a super tax system on a fishing road. It can't include overmanagement in agriculture, where much farmers are kept down, or failures of agricultural agreements, and then I refer first to the sheep of the sheep; we can give long talks about it. We are also told: We are a small nation, and we cannot afford to run a large and expensive government system. You see, we're supposed to promote tax moderation, to simplify the work of the industry, and thus contribute to the existence of small and medium - sized companies, not just here in the capital area, but especially in the country. A generous tax recovery and simple rule is most likely more important for an employee in the country than it is in the capital area, which has the potential to cope with the system in its neighborhood. We need to make sure that the capital area does not absorb all the money from the region. So that we here, with help and advice from officials, would distribute the money back. I think we're supposed to let our oxygen out into a country with freedom of movement, an increase in competition. We're here to issue a public assignment, we're supposed to publish it. I don't think there's much we could do better about strengthening the settlements in the country, as the road is a good example. When the road began to produce functional projects, small independent contractors, many of whom are large and powerful, were allowed to enjoy themselves because they decided to care for government projects. Don't move the statehood of Vega to the country, even if it had a branch office, but mainly to deliver projects to the locals so that they could make up their bossy companies, etc. There's a lot in this proposal for concierge that's good. I realize that. And that is just when it comes to the interior, the thing that makes the heart beat faster and that is good at the highest rate. Minister, for jobs without location. I think it's time for us to get out of the chains of our mind, that we stop thinking of institutions as concrete here in 101 or somewhere in the capital area with a legal home here, and start thinking of them services and projects irrespective of location. You can see that much of the projects being done here in the capital area can, in fact, work wherever you can, as long as you have access to high - speed grids, fiber - optics, and connections. That's why it's all very important, because we're standing - the highest. Minister, I'm going to congratulate you on the international recognition that we all received, even though you have received it on our behalf. Keeping what is well done is worth the effort. Then I have doubts about it when people talk here about starting with some transfer system on the equations of shopping costs, etc. Let us see how this is accomplished, but the key point is, of course, that we begin to activate freedom of movement and give people freedom of choice, real freedom of choice, to make our own home. If so, how we approach the project may be important and how we view the Kingdom's assignments from new ideas.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u86	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason for an excellent speech. A lot of things in it I'd say and do. Especially was it interesting to me that the point he entered was likely more important to the region than to the national capital. There are other steps to take in the country than in the capital area, although the financial resources of an enterprise have not been superseded. I'm thinking about knowing what's wrong. A senator makes a living in that regard. Funds were approved in December, financial programs were adopted last week. This more moderate currency or tax system, which I think we both agree to be very successful for business and home in the country, how does he support the trend compared to the financial strategy recently adopted by the government in general?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u87	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason foreman. The plan is for the treatment, it hasn't been approved - OK, I get it, I get it, I get it all mixed up myself. [[Up front.]] I think, however, it's a mixture of two. On one hand, behave in a general way, including In payment of a fishing road, but also that the rule is simple. It's important that we're not building a complicated surveillance system, so farmers - because I'm looking at the highest. Department of Social Affairs who knows it well - will receive regular visits from the others and these monitors. I think it could be simplified and greatly reduced by folding the food industry's resources into one institution, so that men would not be wasting their time on it. The point is: It's harder and more expensive for a company out in the country to follow all the regular work in force - I don't talk about if they need to get their case corrected - but it's a similar company here in the capital area. It tells itself that the presence in itself creates a specific economy, not just for transport, but for management when the system needs to be dealt with. Therefore, it is more important that the country is more important that we not only have the ability to be moderate in taxes but also in all the rule of business. I think it's important.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u88	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason for. That was basically what I expected to do. A senator would say. I want to use this opportunity to celebrate it, and I hope that we're going to work together to get the system and monitoring system on a diet that's gonna be good enough for more people than Central Classes these days. There's no other question. I just wanted to celebrate what happened. A senator hoping that an important job can be done to reduce the cost of the system, the surveillance system, for a company abroad, so that time and energy can be spent in upbuilding activities. Although, of course, I'm not talking about the fact that all surveillance is being run and run, I think we're in the place today that we've come out of the dances on these things.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u89	Mr. President. I'm gonna add a little bit: just one aspect of a regional policy that could work. Art and culture are important to us. They are seasoning of life. But the way we support art and culture may now be quite the way we should do it. For example, we should think more deeply about it. Based on the report made by News Time, artist's wage in 2013 was almost exclusively limited to artists who were here in 101. If a ballot number had been applied, it would have been six times more to artists out in the country than did, six times, six times higher. Less than 200 million instead of a few dozens. I'll say, why don't we change our arrangement for the intervention of the artist enterprise, if we agree that we want to support art and culture - I'm one of them - and bring the decision of the artistry back to the province. If we want to praise the inhabitants of every community to make that decision, e.g. When they give their tax report, how they will spend the money marked for art and culture. I think that many people might choose the art player in their home, their playmate, etc. I guess this would be just a good way to balance the difference and make it more desirable to live in the scattered areas, to be more spicy in life. I think maybe we should work on this idea. We can still develop it together. paritaprevir Berþór Ólason, who nods here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u90	A respectable president. This is where we'll discuss a ground plan, i.e. Suggestion for a decision-making program to seven years of age, the first that will be discussed after a new government law became valid and the first to have a direct connection with a financial strategy that is to be completed together. I have been very happy to see that many of the projects in the community plan are also visible in the financial program. Other areas where tasks are not directly visible, it is obvious that they are expected. The structure is all the subjects that influence quality of life and the competitiveness of parts of the country, such as buma, employment, and innovation. They are about to promote society, the growth of social wealth, employment, education, culture, welfare, transportation, and communication. To me, it is a matter of equal equality to the home, of choosing where people live, whether in city, urban, or rural areas, then of competitiveness between communities, rural communities, or parts of the country. These factors are deeply affected by management measures or structural inactivity. How important it is, then, that all the decisions we make regarding the distribution of capital are always reflected in the existing structure. Like any other boy. Elders involved in the discussion have mentioned them should appreciate most of the basics we discuss as well as how they affect eugenic development. This proposal we'll discuss here contains over 50 actions. There are many actions that I have been interested in or that have been in my heart. I'm going to go inside some of them. First, I'd like to talk about growing research and science. It emphasizes a better link between regional speciality of society, employment and/or nature, to a professional relationship between university and research institutions and businesses in each area. This is a key factor in so many things; innovation, employment, and the development and access of university education all over the country. In this regard it is very important to apply competitive funds, so they take this goal into account in molding the emphasis in their work. This operation is then linked to a reinvestment of innovation in the food industry and access to university education. Next, I'd like to mention close - up services with immigrants, which, of course, are very important. Now, professional life calls for a lot of new people. In recent months, many people have moved to the country. I see in my environment that there are a lot of young people from Eastern Europe who are very ready to learn, waiting to learn Icelandic and to learn about society. That's why the operation there is called New York Times, locally, extremely important. I know an example that what is distributed through Ranni's Icelandic education in adults will only cover the spring in certain parts of the country. That is where we need to see how we can follow that goal. Some people, both in this discussion and in the preceding discussion, have stopped the operation on farms owned by the State, i.e. to become a government owner's policy for farms. Of course, this is of great importance both in agriculture, in nature protection and use of land, to bind carbon and restore land quality, and must be related to how we use this land in building. Of course, as it was in the discussion of the infrastructure program earlier, it is important that we do not only have policy regarding land use in the land owned by the State but also who can own land, because a country owned by a member of which, of course, does not benefit from the community and does not affect working there. One action I would like to mention here is the reimbursement system of student loans to encourage people to settle in the country area, especially people of the field where people lack people. This has proved to be a very important task in our neighboring countries. Then there are some action related to flight, the flight as public transportation, the equation of international airports, the opening up of more flight - sides, or atrial into the country by following aerosol development fund, which took place a year ago, and then the destination plans that I would especially like to make for publicity. The presentation and implementation of destination plans is a comprehensive process in which there is planning and coordination in development and management of all the factors that can affect the survival of tourists in the surrounding region, including the needs of guests, locals, companies and environment. The market agencies in the country have worked together to manage the development and development of areas and to define the role of stakeholders. It is expected that the plan will be completed in spring and introduced in national parts and made available to all economics. These schedules will then need to be followed up in the marketing work. Then perhaps there's something about our coordination right here at the council, that these plans will be followed. We've got two prime messages on the topic of travel and, on the other hand, the National Institutes, which have been working on these programmes in cooperation with them, and it's very important that, with the legal adjustments planned for them, this goal will be followed closely. The programme has very important tasks related to better energy efficiency and better access to national electricity. Eruption is one of the projects I know are seen in many parts of the street, people are waiting for where they can go in order to do this, because there is a lot of savings to companies and individuals. I look forward to better researching these projects on the environment and transport committees and working with this strategy and getting more information about the standards to set out for the projects and the consultations that are behind them.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u91	A respectable president. I would like to thank the senator for his excellent speech, and we can agree on much community work that needs to be done. The important thing is that if you put it that way, it's a central thought now. I personally would have liked to see the local settlements in the Ministry of Presidency and to speak in that tone while that lawsuit group heard me as a minister. The reason is that it is important to have someone who is looking at this centrally, who has a view of everything, and who can link all threads together. It's the Ministry of Presidency that can do it. But I didn't come up here to discuss it with you. A senator. In his speech, I heard correctly, that it would be nice to see how many ideas or suggestions are financed in a new financial program. Today, a financial and structure program covers virtually the same time period. I wonder why. A senator whether it is strange to bring up a financial program that covers a period or almost the same as the groundwork and projects are not funded. We must ask ourselves, " How many projects do we have in the foundation plan and in the financial context? ' I'm asking why. A member of Congress whether it was discussed in the Constitution to correct this, or, according to her opinion, would it be reasonable to submit these two programs, where others should consider the other but not?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u92	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson answer. As the senator knows, financial programs are not designed to fully trace them to unique projects, but they are unbelievably possible through these projects, e.g. all the energy activities. Other projects I view as a treasurer in the program, although you cannot directly trace them to the team because they are going to be divided into a number of languages. Of course there's something I'm going to let myself do - I mentioned one project that I know isn't financed, but it's actually a little bit of money in the bigger picture, so it's just a question of following it. Of course, it is part of the work of the Committee then that they work more closely on the financial agenda of each member. As indicated by the proposal of this article, I see only the financial support that follows, the total crisis being financed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u93	A respectable president. I assume that both, financial and regional programmes, were well and carefully introduced in the board of directors. So I'm just gonna simplify it and ask you why. Senator: Is a financial planning fully funded?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u94	A respectable president. Yeah, yeah. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, I think of it as a treasure. However, I also view it as the role of the committee to apply and apply it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u95	Mr. President. This first part of the discussion is rapidly ending on the proposal to conspire policy development in the built-up programme for 2018-2024. It's an ambitious plan. This plan is bright and springing at the top. A minister who now proposes this proposal at the beginning of the summer - the first day of the summer is Thursday. Target is high. There should be a level of access to services, equal opportunities to work and support sustainable development from all over the country to name something. The whole country is going to be in a more prosperous settlement, and Iceland is to be at the tip of modern infrastructure, progressive services, valuables, equal quality of life, and powerful rural areas. This is good news. It's a good tone, and we're supposed to lay down on one thing that's going to happen. It's not going to be empty. It is in our power, Generalis, to add our weights to the scales. This program is widely available. Councilmen have spoken here tonight with knowledge, experience and insight regarding national affairs. And it's fine. They are to improve services in most areas and to improve access to basic services. The cost of energy for the population is to be balanced, to promote education on the land, and for children and young people to have access to culture and art regardless of the economy or location. Such goals are high. I'm going to cut down a class of issues that I'm going to have as a matter of well - being and health care. The plan says that the Health and Health Plans will receive political treatment as public planning. This is a very important point, and hopefully next, with health, welfare, increased place, and a policy set for the entire population. It's been described, this is our fault, and I think it's a big opportunity for all the people of the country. Hv. Senators who have spoken this evening have talked a great deal about how this program is going on and whose appearance it is. I am pleased to see that men here have endeavors to set standards for the ministry, how they will do this. But it's not in all cases, it's in some cases, and it's like a whale. paritaprevir Elíasdóttir Flanders, daughter of Elias, came in, perhaps an internal discrepancy in the setting. We'll take the will for the job. We want the best for the country, and now we'll take up the years. Regarding health care, our use of advanced technology in our relationships is limited here on a remote health service. In this category, 140 million are to be protected, but it is not good to know whether this is the total amount of money to go to the seminary during this period or whether it is a basic cost. If this is the cost of groundwork, it's as good as it is. This will do for the technical equipment in the national quarters. For the training of health care providers, this facility is designed to educate doctors to specifically work in the country. It's not a new idea, it's probably been in the discussion for two decades, and that's fine. We just have to work these plans out. This does not apply just to doctors. This applies to other healthcare professionals as well. I did not tire of mentioning the vital role that nurses have in the country. They are most likely glued to the field ministry far and wide. We need to enable them to handle increased responsibilities in many lands. It does not appear that we are able to increase the number of health - care professionals or to abandon the arrangement we may have grown up in. Hv. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason made the maternity service a talker and the changes that take place regarding these factors. I, for one, agree with the highest perspective. Ministers, we now have high standards for mothers' protection and birth services, such as other health care services. There is no less requirement for health care than does the rest of the country. Knowledge of aspects of human life that depend on health and human life, and actually both physical and emotional, let's say, has increased, and we are in a position far different from that of two or three decades ago. What makes this imbalance most tangible in the country is, of course, when women have to feed their children away from home. Then the whole world will be cut off, and people will have to step up and move, perhaps for weeks in another part of the country. Often, it is a child or a child who follows, even a mate. In this regard, there is little to say that there will be rules about how to strengthen families who live in this lot. That's good, and it needs to be done. It's not done, and it's in a vagina today. This too is a mental - health service that has been very discussed recently. We're about to set up a mental - health team all over the country. It is good and reflects increased emphasis on mental - health services, psychological services. And they are to include all age groups, from children and older ones, young people in high school and college, and people who are developmentally impaired, people with alcohol and drug problems, to name something. A mental - health team is expected to be in all quarters in 2019 C.E. In addition, expert services should be promoted in the country, and this should be clearly defined. Of course, we have high expectations for a new health - care policy to take on this and for a cost cut, since we need key health facilities in all four parts of the country. It is not enough to express it in words; it is necessary to enable them to work on natural terms in all these four parts of the country. You got a lot of pressure tonight, huh? Councilmen, moving to work and talking about jobs without a location. It is now one of the purposes of this government, and it is set up in a government covenant to increase these possibilities. I can't agree with that. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur, the Árnason, is the traditional work that is primarily the roots and feet of the country. It has to be recognized, and experience shows that public jobs are trapped in many parts of the country, and they create diversity. In most cases, both family members, both man and woman, have become specialized employees and want appropriate jobs. Transport has also been discussed. I'm tired to mention that we have to make some way for tourists to come into this country, not just the highways. We need to consider strengthening air travel from more locations than Reykjavík or Cheflavík, to a lesser extent, Egls and Akureyri. We need to think of a good airport in a Northwestern district in the central part of the West. It may be slow in the 1920's. Mr. President. I've been through my time and thank you for this good discussion. I hope to participate in the second discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u96	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Guðjón of the son of Brjánsson before the speech. Like many men, the Senator is known in many parts of the country. Like signing, members of Parliament know and have served in health care in many lands. I would like to speak only to the senator about whether he sees the flatness of using tools such as a built-up plan - if we call a structured plan - in a more consistent way just to address health services in the country, to form a plan to promote the education of health groups, to ensure that the health groups are ready to come ashore, either by some sort of social or social services, or by any means, whether the senator sees on it. I ask, for example, if the Department of Health and Education could work together to ensure that the status of students on health care or in other medical services would be placed on a greater scale in the country than today.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u97	Madam President. I thank you for this inquiry. I think we've got my nigger out of any unused opportunities over there. My experience is that young people are prepared to move to shore if they are suitable for a job, since it is a more cultured and a multigained human life. Of course, people require that they have faith in their work, that jobs are appropriate, and that they are stable. In many parts of the country, therefore, the greeting has not been done. There, organizations have fought in the banks. We have had no firm policy in which direction health care is going. Is she all going to Reykjavík, or will she be left alone in the country? This I think is very important. In many parts of the country, health - care professionals have different assignments, varied tasks, than at large workplaces in the capital area. I think there's definitely a chance. As people spend more time in the country, they are more likely to choose for a long time. I think there are some things I could help with, but I think they might be temporary. But equal things should prevail in as many areas as possible. Of course, it is a certain cost that residents in the country live in that we do not have here, but it is also in part more practical.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u98	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's introduction to the question, the answer may not come just as I asked him to answer. The building program is a bit based on projects that are carried out by individual advisers, although it is certainly one minister who puts it forward. I'm wondering, maybe there's not a lot of work there between recruitment projects, for the sake of the Department of Health, the Ministry of Education, even the Department of Transport and Division. It is true, as shown in the case of the senator, that there is a significant difference today in the availability of this country's inhabitants to form a special service. But I know that me and what. However, a senator agrees completely that national expert services are not the key to health care there. The key to health care in the country is good health care and basic services. That is where the most important thing is that people can walk that when they need medical attention, it is available in a locality. Even if the community service cannot complete the whole thing, at least she can recognize and organize and provide the relevant people with the services and treatment they expect and which they are really entitled to, according to the health - care laws in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u99	Madam President. There are a number of factors that need to fall together in order to succeed. We know that a collaborator in the country, which I know is a collaborator. A senator also knows about health care professionals. It's been a pleasure. One important aspect of this, as we have discussed, is transportation, that people have safe transportation, that they do not hesitate to live in the country because they are held out for long periods of time. There is also the insecurity of having to travel long distances to attend health care. We haven't talked much about hospital transport tonight, medical flight, which is a key factor we know in the Westland. These are things to consider. But this scheme, that you may go to the bottom of the discussion, is good. I wish to the highest. Minister to congratulate you on putting her up here tonight. Here people are going to enter the light and have great ambition to do well. They wish her to go forward. The big difference between Iceland and heaven cannot be seen if the main objective of this is reached.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u100	Madam President. Here's a proposal for interpretation of a policy based strategy for 2018-2024. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator before us, before the good words and the sunlight, all of us enter the light of this matter. This is a very good bag, I've been going through it to-day. There are many positive things in this and good things on which to be built for the future. One thing is fundamental when I think about geographic matters, and I think it's worth considering that in the big picture, when we consider the results and how things are going there. One of the goals we want to see for the future involves land - to - land shelters, construction costs, and market prices. It's my feeling that we are beginning to succeed in a wide and wide country where new buildings can be built in those areas, we've built it strong economicly, and everything that needs to be built is possible to build a new home. I feel that there should be one of the goals in the plan when it comes to how the house market works and how we approach it. It is not necessarily difficult to figure out how these proportions develop. There are relatively accurate statistics, and I would be very interested in seeing the figures in this way. I'm going to take a few points in the document. On page 18. 17 in section C.4 it refers to capitalism. By permission of the President, I would like to quote the project goal it says: To become a capital policy that will define the role of Reykjavíkurburg as the capital of all the people, rights, and duties of the city as Iceland's capital capital, and contribute to the greater competitiveness of the capital and country. It's a very good thing it's recorded here. In recent years it has not weighed so heavily on the record, I feel that those in the city of Reykjavík are discussing the capital role and capitalism. How happy we are that this work is being handled here! And how exciting it will be to see how this work takes place in the future! For the last two years, it's been the first time, at least for some four, five decades, it increases more in the region than in the capital area. It's totally new that's been happening over the last two years, considering 40, 50 years before. I say that if I come into the country, in the capital and across the country, and in the country around the country, I am involved in the development of different areas. I think we have to keep on doing the same thing. There's a lot of opportunities for travel. There are several points in the built-in format where the facilities for international flight and their structure are being met. Let us bear in mind that there has been a Cheflavík airport built for 60, 70 years and marketed as such, and it became a sustainable airport five, six years ago. That's as far as I'm concerned. We can do this tour with other airports. It's just gonna take time to build it up. However, this is a very important factor, and if this is the case, large areas around the airport will be affected, and there will be a similar situation between the airports. In particular, we refer to the flight gates into the country and their growth, as well as the Akureyri Airport and the Lagil State Airport and the air - development Fund, which is extremely important and has proved itself in recent years since its beginning in the course of two, three years ago, has proved itself well in Akureyri, as we can see by the flight of Super Break and the rapid and rapid changes in their flight. They had 14 trips this winter, but they were heading at least on some 30 trips for the next winter. So it's starting and exerting tremendous influence on tourism in Akureyri. Then, in English, I think it's called, by permission of the President, the presentation and introduction of the destination plans, is referred to in section C.12. We see that today the pressure has become widespread in tourist areas, especially at the southwest corner and along the south coast. How important it is, then, that we look to the future and consider developing a more purposeful way of building up our new destination! We have a lot of beautiful places to build up. Nature and Gold Falls, this is a marketing plan that has lasted for 60 years. It didn't fall from the sky. They've been working on this since 1960 or then building up this destination. So this is a very important document. In this policy-making program, I think there's something very positive about how you're going to deal with these factors and think about the big picture. For electrical transport and electrical charge, these factors are taken into account in the proposal and are very important in the areas where humans live, e.g. not in the case of electricity compression today. There is good reason for this work to be handled by special projects, such as those performed by a fiber - optic project, which has been published many times this evening during the discussion. We have a similar possibility, and we can look at similar possibilities in terms of electrical recovery. The other big thing or one of the biggest cases is the main transport system of electrical energy, increasing energy security. We're talking about the main transfer of electricity, we're talking in general about the base line, and then the distribution across the countryside. We're in a lot of trouble with the distribution. The country is now being developed wide and wide, and this process is to be completed if I recall correctly 2035, 2036. The major project is now to ensure the main transport system. In northern, South, South, and West, putting it on a stand is a key task so that one can have a similar electronic security as in the capital area. I would also like to use this opportunity in my speech and mention, even though there may not be a discussion in this synonym, I would also like to be examined for further ways and connections, such as. such as the Kjalway, which I believe, has been given much too little discussion in the community, but is a huge interest in large areas and could completely transform northwest e.g., there, and in other places. We've been talking here at the council about public air travel, the domestic flight, the Scottish route, and I have high hopes that people will take some good steps in the future and start thinking about the international flight as public transportation. For areas such as the West and the East, I have heard from the East that these have the largest issues in the community discussion, and people are very impressed with the success of developing domestic noises. In the past, I've discussed whether we could look at the budget, the government budget and what we're doing, financial policies, and other things, with our local glasses. Just as human beings have been studying some of the factors, equality, and perceptions of budgets and things, I think it's totally possible that we're putting up the cohesive glasses when we treasure a government budget and something else. Just at the end of the better distribution of tourists, we're running out of time. We have tremendous opportunities for making Iceland a real project so that we have tourists throughout the country throughout the year, thus contributing to the economic gains and to the development of the community of tourism. As I've been involved many times, I believe that one of the biggest projects we've had in the next few years is building in that area.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u101	V.E.G. President. Thank you. Friðbertsson To this speech, faithful Trausti of Friðbert is the subject of trust. He met many in the public talk about this synopsis proposal for a community plan. I cut down a few points that are very large, including about the airports and their structure. We've been talking about increasing the number of portals into the country and the security network of air transports, and for the council there's a suggestion to add a spare airport to a sheephouse, Alexander's airport. See what? A senator of that airport to himself as a reserve airport? Would this not be useful in improving the safety of flying flying in the outland air and in building up of domestic flights? So I'm asking about trajectory of electricity, but the senator came in to go the same way that was done in connection with fiber - opticization. When I worked in this sector 30 or 40 years ago, I was talking about the need to speed up the development of electricity in the rural areas. That was a long time before the fiber optics. At some point along the way, the producer has cut past the three - phase of electricity, and he is amazed to me. Then I'm going to come in with another case in the second answer, starting with this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u102	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. About a national spare airport - what? A senator named Alexander's Airport - it is difficult to discuss in a short period of time. But a considerable amount of service and equipment at the airports is needed in order to maintain groundwork. We can mention staff, airline construction, flying equipment, and all the necessary settings. What has created the possibility, both at Akureyri Airport and at the Lagil Standards Airport, that international flights can be used there, is that there is considerable internal flying activity and there is considerable effort on the ground. At the Akureyri Airport, 70 to 1,100 people work in various jobs, aviation workers, and store clerks, as well as all tools and tools. It's similar in the Lagis, all in position to take care of this from the ground today. That's a lot of effort. We have a hard time handling these two airports today, making them fully equipped, along with Reykjavík Air Force Airport, which these three airports have today. It takes great effort to reach Alexander's airport in the same way. I'm just gonna talk about the triples. He's the One who's leading the light. He's the one who picks up all the homes. This is a big, big deal, and it has had a major impact on urban development recently in recent times, when the optic cable is in place, and humans have access to it. Exploitation of electricity, I could believe that there may be three level projects financially, I suspect, in view of the optics thing. Then we really need to see if we can find specific ways to finance such things. How exciting it would be if we saw that development and found a chance to take up that assignment and finance it!
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u103	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for the answer. Perhaps we can agree that this is the case with Alexander's airport. It is proved that weather conditions are often very good for landing when they are not good elsewhere, e.g. In Akureyri or in that area. But this is an enormous deal. I know why. A senator is very much involved in these airports, so I pay attention to what he says. In connection with the electrical transport system, the main system, the delivery security of electrical energy, the senator came in to further inspect, not in the schedule, linking with Kok, Kjalway, or so on. I realize that it is not in a government contract to consider the matter at this time, but I know it is. A senator believes that. I agree with him that instead of always focusing on the only aspect of the situation that we still need to focus on, we still need to take a similar view of the situation and take it seriously. I really don't have a question about this, but I noticed why. A senator came into this speech, and I wanted to pause and agree with him in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u104	Madam President. In the country, it is extremely important to have reserve airports. We need to strengthen them; they serve very different roles, weatherlike. They must have been scattered across the land for various situations that arise. Regarding the main transport system of electricity - this may have been quite vague from me earlier. But when I was talking about tents, I was thinking about the car tour over Krug. I hope I'll have a chance at the council to learn more about this later and to get a better discussion on this. But as for the main transport system of electricity and explosion, I've talked about the possibility of a human being. For longer periods of time, with new technologies and other possibilities, care must be taken not to shut down the possible link between the River and the North with the so-called T solution to strengthen regions between national and electronic energy systems based on national security issues. They need that prospect for a long time. It seems to me that there is an environmental trend towards a long-range correction of DC strings; it costs a lot today, is decreasing, but with complete minimal environmental impact. Maybe that's what we agree about, I've never talked about a Kíng in connection with connecting the electrical systems of north and south to one system - this is a discussion that connects the perimeter circle - or connecting over the highlands. We know this in another discussion, and hopefully we can take it better later.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u105	A respectable president. First, I'd like to thank you for having a community plan and that it's being discussed at the council. When I had this plan in hand in January 2017, she was ready. There were two departments that were going to go through it at that time; it has taken a good time for them to do so. I can see, however, that something else has happened because certain things have gone out of the plate that was then on the table, as I recognize it. Thank you very much. Minister for the discussion. But I would like to ask, is it not absolutely certain that the plan is fully valued throughout the years? It's very important that we know that. I'd like to, too, since I've started, to ask about a point on page 18. 11 This conclusion: It discusses the transport systems of electricity and increases energy security, a section called B.2. It says, by permission of the President: There will be progress in helping with the necessary structure and maintenance of electricity transport and distribution systems. What's that supposed to mean? What does it mean for a community plan to step in? If you watch a movie, we'll know what it means, at least in Italian movies, that's hardly what's going on there. I wondered, " How do I contribute to the weight of the lines? ' I'm asking for curiosity first and foremost. There's 60 million that are going to go into these κs or what we call them. So I'm asking what this means. I'm happy if there's any way of ensuring a better energy transfer and a land-wide supply security by moving around or whatever this means. I am so happy that student loans are still in the development program. It's one of the issues I stressed that would be put on the basis of a plan when she was on my desk at the Ministry and also on the subsidies of travel expenses. These are things that were not in the schedule when I accepted it at the time. I'm so glad it's in. Another thing I like to celebrate is that special loans are in there for the agriculture. However, I would like to ask if it hadn't come up in the discussion - it was one of the things that started, that I must admit that I don't remember whether it was at the end of the discussion, but then we were wondering - if a body agency couldn't have a loan party and help those rural communities who want to enter the premium of resources when selling ships and warrants were for sale in the community. In many areas, rural communities simply cannot invest or invest in the vast investments there. So it would be natural for a building agency to check whether some money could be made. I'm curious to know if there's been a discussion in the basement. I just miss not taking care of anything about law enforcement. I may have missed it, but I miss not taking care of law enforcement in there. It's important, it has a lot to do with this case. Law enforcement is also urban. Then I'm gonna let myself get in on the flight talk a little bit. There's the mention of an airport in this fine piece of paper. It's like there's some kind of fear out there somewhere that Alexander's airport is called the airport. It's like some kind of fear that the airport will compete with the other airports. Of course, that is not what is going to happen. On the other hand, it is obvious that an airport between one and a half hours from Akureyri, three and a half hours from Reykjavík, four and a half hours from Cheflavík, is better equipped to be a reserve airport than an airport that is farther away, even more than one, two pagan, or mountain roads. I don't fully understand the fear of taking this discussion. I think the highest. A minister should welcome a synopsis proposal made here on Alexander's airport and help us finish it right here at the council and get into this. I miss it too, and now I'm asking the highest. Minister: Why did the proposal for a stifling insurance fee go out in the country? The proposal was in the draft and plan available in the Ministry of January 2017, and I wondered why this proposal is going out, since it is an enormously important proposal and new one. This is a new thought that aims to encourage it and to help companies and those who wanted to go on a business trip in the country to cover the hardest cut, at least to build up their own business. I have suspected why this went out, why, but I'm not going to say it here. I could be lying to you, but I'd rather not. I just wish a minister would inform us why and why this went out. This plan is the finest piece of paper in the world. There are new things in this. That's a good new thought. But I must say, I said it here earlier tonight, that I want to see this party somewhere else. I want to see him at the Ministry of Presidency. I want to see that the prime minister is in charge of regional affairs. In fact, it's the only agency that can pull the strings and say, "We're going to connect transport, we're going to connect the health issues, we're going to connect the electronics, we're going to connect it all to one place. That's the Ministry of Presidency. It would also make this class higher below its head, lift it up. This is so important. I think we need to have a very close look at this. I'm not saying this because I'm having this boring thing at my time, not at all, it's very fun to be in the community, but it just needs to be in a place where this gets the weight it deserves. A respectable president. I'm not gonna have this any further in this traffic. I know this will get a good and detailed discussion on the Committee to discuss this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u106	A respectable president. I think it's important that we discuss a synoptic arrangement and that we take part in a discussion about it, all members of the Parliament, not just members of the country as often as we want to be, because it matters to all of us. Maybe I'd like to hit the capital policy first, because I think it's also very important in regional policy. With President's permission, this says of one objective: To become a capital policy that will define the role of Reykjavíkurburg as the capital of all the people, rights, and duties of the city as Iceland's capital capital, and contribute to the greater competitiveness of the capital and country. I'll mention it first, not because I'm a member of the capital area, but because I think it's very important that we see Iceland's competitiveness here. It is also of utmost importance to the region that this is a capital area. We must take the discussion of a community plan because we are somehow talking about the capital against the country and vice versa. According to this, I must say that I am particularly fond of ideas that are involved in helping individuals out of student loans so that living in the country is motivated by reimbursement and payment on student loans. I'd like to touch your housing issues. In fact, I know we'll talk a little later during the evening of housing from others at the highest level. Minister. I think that project is extremely important, and that in the whole country. Then maybe I'd like to point out if there's anything missing in the C.7, about the country's housing plans. It speaks of national organization, local organization, and finally a major organization. You're also referred to the Ministry of Health and Pensions. I wondered if there is any need for the future change in the bill we are discussing here and the role that the camp loan fund has received and perhaps in some way may have had a role that was previously intended for the Organization via national planning policies, i.e. assessing the need for apartments and how much has been planned. I agree with what others have said about the flight gate into the country. I think it's really important when it comes to distributing tourists all over the country. I'd like to express the highest. The minister's opinion of the second objective of B.5, which is about innovation in the food industry, and then B.14, is of interest to innovation. For example, it is an old story and a new story when discussing innovation that it is sometimes taken to a field of procreation. In section B.5, a special reference is made to innovation in the food industry and to a specific fund established on both agriculture and marine soil. I allow me to feel that it may not always be the best way to do this when it is a short time for innovation to leave it that way to certain sectors. New creation companies and pioneers often need a very comparable service, and it is often difficult to draw the line and decide whether it is working on food production, tourism, entertainment, or so on. I agree with the opinion, has long been involved in innovation, and with many employment advisers in the national part of the country, that it may be simpler and clearer, and therefore more practical to have public assistance, it is possible to create innovation primarily in one category regardless of whether the person is working in the fishing field, agriculture, or in any other field. I'd like to point this out, and I'd like the committee to think about it when she reviews this decree. I'd also like to mention point A.7, maternity services and mother protection. It must be a key if young people are to live throughout the country as far as adequate birth service and mother protection. Also, I can't come up here any different than to mention transportation, which I think is actually the biggest urban issue in the world. I have no doubt that the highest. Ministers also agree with me in this matter of transportation. When I was visiting a innovation company west as a adviser, we were discussing with parties where I didn't have to make flying, and I didn't have to do it, and the other person said: "What's important is that the roads are all right just so that I can get to Cheflavour when I have to fly to Chefavour and meet foreign clients outside. I don't really care about anything else. If you can make sure of this, it's all important. I'm not saying the other one doesn't matter, but I think it's absolutely fundamental that people make their way on the roads. We can spend a lot of money in an airport all over the country, but if someone's not ready to run a flight service and land at these fine airports, then, in fact, we don't really have much to do with our investment. Then I'd like to mention the section on public transportation. I think it's a good goal that we're going to continue developing public transportation throughout the country. I also think we have to be very realistic about this project. It has been very successful. I just want to encourage the highest. Minister to consider these factors well. I think that much was successful in building public transportation to certain parts of the country, but less. This is specifically referred to as another goal, a flight as a public transportation, which may be more effective where the route of land is more difficult, farther to go, and elsewhere. Of course, in order for this to be a practical option for the inhabitants of the country, we need to find some means to resolve it. Here's the Scottish way for a committee I think is interesting to look at. That's what they said. Ministers in this area are involved in transport and public transportation discussions, and it has been clear in the media that rural areas in the country are fighting with this project, public transportation, because the government's financial resources are not sufficient to run public transportation. Then I'd like to remind you that the government's putting around 800,900 million a year in public transportation in the capital area. It is an agreement that has also arose in this council hall during the last days. The rural communities themselves in the capital area are placing Gigantian amounts in public transportation. It is not that this money coming from the state is under public transportation in the capital area, not at all, but all of the corporations cost a considerable amount of money on public transportation. The reason I mention this is because the discussion in this hall may have been a little unfair to public transportation at times. The public transport in the country is important, and it's important that this is being addressed here in this programme, but I restate that I think we have to be very realistic when this happens. The rural areas in the capital area pay several billion each year, all of them, probably 4 billion or about every year for public transportation. Strong and good public transportation, especially when we look at climates, depends on us moving a lot of people, there are a lot of people coming between places. Most likely, the capital area is the only place where it is realistic to have a very powerful public transport where the frequency is high and the number of passengers is moved. Therefore, I think it must also be part of our geographic policy to ensure intensive public transportation in the capital area. Then I will let my talk complete, which was about a structured plan, as well as about the important capital area and transportation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u107	A respectable president. We'll discuss a proposal for a decision-making strategy for 2018-2024. As I have said before in this discourse, I believe that the most important and lasting results are, of course, that transportation is good, telecommunications are good, communications are good, so that companies can sit down where they want to work and have access to the best and most stable forces. As for transportation, as has been echoed by earlier talks and the highest. Of course, transport and rural administrators know best about human beings are called for significant improvement in these resources. It's this, along with the fact that telecommunications are in order in relation to the optics and other factors, which are more important than all the other regional operations, I think. So I'd like to use this opportunity to sound the highest. A secretary of transportation to make an all - out effort so that it will be done even more well than the newly established financial program currently approved here at the council provides reason to plan. I had to get away from it, so I didn't hear it. The secretary of transportation confirmed earlier that the development of a building plan would be a means of financial profit. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson was in a pita and asked for it. It'd be nice to have it confirmed below. I want to use this opportunity to commend this ambitious scheme, and there are many good things here that are obvious that have not been thrown into the hands. But what I'm worried about is the financing thing. When I shall read the budget as agreed here in December 2018, the current financial programme that has been discussed here and is now being treated at the council and then this proposal for action seems to be added in a financial program of five years old. This includes rural politics and settlements, and it appears to be in a fairly stable pace over a period of financial planning. I think it is likely that the estimated amount of voluntary contributions is in a very similar way today, which is 1,916 million for 2018. Funds that were approved in December include earmarks here and until fine works and on page 6. Two hundred and thirty - three - three - three - year - olds are given especially ten points to cover expenses. In this suggestion for a policy based strategy, which is an ambitious document, I think there are 54 specific points in groups A, B, and C. A is access to services, B is job opportunity and C is sustainable development. These are the ten points listed in both the budget and the budget of 54 C.E. That's what makes me worry that we don't have a budget. If you read through the motion, 30 of these 54 points or issues with the specified budget, 24 are not. It promotes my concern, but I hope to the highest. A minister will turn them off if he does so well to answer that question, since he is here in the hall. There are many good things in this program, but I'm concerned that those she worked had the highest optimism for many of the factors listed. If only, for example, here in section B, we have an opportunity for work, Unit B.1, power compression. There are an estimated 400 million people from a based schedule during the course of 2019,2024, six years. That's 80 million a year. We all know that we will not go far for that amount, just if we look at the results that are achieved by 80 million in a photoengineering process, a less expensive procedure than a triune. This is either a subroutine or a human means to make it real later out of another joint. There are similar things I would like to mention, access to mental - health services, which aim to support the policy and procedures of the Ministry of Health. This project has an estimated 5 million in a three - year period. I'm afraid the will may be good, but it's not far. The same is true of expert services where the task goal is to improve access to health care wherever possible. This project is estimated to be 5 billion. K. from a planned program over a three-year period, of 400 you. K. per month. This once more encourages my feeling that we have not seen the country in terms of financing. I might go through these things one by one, but I don't think it's going to add to the discussion here. But here are things that have just taken their stand. The C group is a sustainable development and in C.8 team the goal is to promote the local media, which is the local newscasts and the media throughout the country. If we just give ourselves to simplify the fact that there are three medias in each of the country's settlements, total nine, and that's 25 million. K. to the project in 2018/2024, that's 32 of you. K. per month for any psychic. All of us here know that while everything is good, it doesn't do much for each of them. The reason why I specifically mention this is that it has just been suggested here for printers in particular about making them a valuable tax service. It was published in December in connection with funding. So I think there's something else about it that doesn't mix up a sound or a picture. Other than that, I'd like to end up saying there's a lot of good things here, and it's good to try to work to make peace and agree to get these work done as many as possible, with emphasis on transport and telecommunication and a reliable distribution of electricity. There are aspects that need to be at the head of the order, as well as, of course, that the inhabitants of the country have the preeminent and good access to health care and good education. I suggest we just get the hang of it. I hope I'm missing the financing part of this and the highest. Ministers will confirm it to me below, but if we're looking for a financing, we're going to have to go for a job to solve it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u108	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for a detailed and grammatical discussion on the synonym of a community plan that we've been discussing here tonight. I agree with the last speaker, who actually appeared to many others, that the mood is brilliant and the goals are fine and the 54 actions. Of course, the key is to implement them. That's the only way we're going to do it, except that the General will then contribute to these items here in the document. Because this share has been asked a good deal about funding it is so that during the five years in the financial programme, financial funding is growing to the developed programme and national parishion plans as discussed in the government release. I don't remember the exact amount, but I guess it's 200 to 250 million more when we get to the end of the time, so it's growing all the time. We probably have about 500 million a year, and we may have more than 600 next year, and this will result in the growth of the period. However, as it has also been observed among the individual members of Congress, the 54 projects are not all funded by the Ministry of Transport and Regional Affairs. I reviewed it in my history that some are entirely funded by a fund, of course, in advance of the approval of the Generals and their budget for that time. Some are greatly appreciated, are put forward to help with assignments or support. This may be the case with us as easily as possible. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason was discussing mental health and such things. Of course, the main financial items are coming from the Ministry of Education, but here they may be taking a bit of cohesive spin on some of this. The same applies, for example, to the development of electricity. I've also discussed that while we're on this great project, the national telecommunications project in Iceland light, we have a major weight on it, but in the latter part of the season, we might be able to use the money for trifuncation. It is also called at work, as I have mentioned earlier during the discussion today, under the leadership of both sides. paritaprevir The Haraldur - working son of Benediktsson, who is considering how we can speed up the spread of electricity. I would like to use this opportunity to express my view that it is unacceptable that we are looking until 2035 or 2036. I think we should set ambitious goals to complete it perhaps ten years earlier, 2025, and deal with it in a similar way that we've been dealing with the telecommunications section. It's something we've been doing right. That's a positive population development. This has been shown in the case of individual senators in recent years. However, it is not everywhere. That is why we need to focus more on the areas in which people live and live, in order to handle their ministry to the extent that they are strong enough. The 54 projects here are many of them. But it is true that transportation, including public transportation, is, of course, the main market. This enables us to take in communication. Of course, it is our doing very good, and we will not take the first place in the world over our situation unless we have done something right. Iceland may be light-related, but it's the first place we've got there. In fact, it is also true that we are very novelistic and curious and find it easy to develop technology so that we have used the Internet from the start, the public has taken this technology to heart. And the market companies have been very active, both in competition and construction. All of this has helped with this. We may need to do so in more ways. As to whether a seven-year plan is fully funded, we have five-year financial programmes. Each action is due to the approval of Generalis at any given time, but it is presented here in accordance with financial programmes for the next five years. Then it is extended for the next two years, as if we were to keep the rhythm we're doing now. But, of course, all of this is ultimately subject to the approval of the Generals. Regarding that question as a question. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson was on, to form with the very good idea of the high-level insurance spending in the country: as we know from Norway, this piece of advice is made by men who were likely to achieve it. This does not change the fact that there are even more good ideas about such things. The same is true of asking why. A senator, about whether a construction agency should contribute to weddings in the fishing road, i.e. ... thatthecommunists are buying dinners. Now, I suppose it's more like if our rural society is ready to enter the premium, it's only a temporary procedure unless people are going to town deforestation again, which I don't think. However, this is not to form one of the suggestions; rather, it is viewed as the part of the settlements that have been derided by the Office of Living, especially by the development of broken - down structures and have done much well. For Gunnar Sveinsson's request, for electrical transport systems, where necessary development and maintenance of electricity transport and distribution systems will continue to be carried out, I agree. A senator says it's a reputation, but he's been allowed to live through the years because it was also like this in the paper in January 2017. But maybe it's the main thing that people are saying that we need to look into it, in cooperation with Power Institute, Landsnet and the National Community Association, how we can guarantee this electronic security. It is one of the key elements, such as this one has also been identified by more members of the council, including some of them. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason. Hv. paritaprevir Bryndís the Haraldsdóttir talked a lot about transport and public transportation, and I can agree with many of the things she had, and was worried that her team B.5, the new food industry, was too specific. I just wanted to mention the past B.14 that talks about funding for innovation. It is a complete list of all the sectoral organisations involved in the work and construction of the Agency, the New Creation Centre, as examples of cooperation between partners. Perhaps a special focus is being placed in the food industry because there is a great need for it. There's been a lot of discussion over the last few years that there's an opportunity. I may not have necessarily answered everything that has been addressed to me in the discussion; it has been very good. At the beginning of the discussion, it was discussed only as being very different and a little as if coming from a different perspective. Hv. paritaprevir Elíasdóttir Flanders, the daughter of Elias, was referring to this. Of course, there are reasons why the emphasis is very different, and the 54 projects are very different. This is because very many people have been consulted and listened to that advice, and it enters the mood. Hence, this will be more extensive than often before. I think of this body of Congress proposal for a community plan, let's say that it was never achieved as thoroughly as it is being done here. It's the first time people put direct funds from the strategy's population on specific teams. One reason why some projects may have started and been promoting them is that it has taken just two years to do so. It is not surprising that something that started two years ago is better off, but more support is being made here in this council arrangement. I thank you very much for your discussion, and I trust and I know, in view of the interest shown here at the council, that this will have a good view and coverage on the Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u109	A respectable president. Thank you, Minister for this. There are two things I would like to understand. First, I felt that a minister would not explain to me whether the plan was financed in the same years as financial programs. If we are talking about five years, will the budget be fully funded during the five - year financial period? Then I'm not just asking what's going on with the community, but everything that's referred to, another ministry, that's what I'm asking. Is all of this well-finished and dejected, not missing a dollar or a cent on the basis of this plan, i.e. The Ministry, the agencies, have all financed themselves? Second, I'd like to ask you a little more about the insurance policy. That's the best I can hear. A minister said that there would be no agreement in this community plan. I wanted to ask: What on earth prevented that from happening? What prevented the introduction of a gradual-changing insurance payment into this program? Was it a group of fellow ministers who prevented this from being part of the plan?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u110	A respectable president. For that, obviously, it is not the one standing here that prevented such things, for he has been a advocate of such ideas. For example, in the 20143/42017 Based program, it was spoken of recording the Norwegian system in this respect. However, for humans to be able to enter some project into a targeted, objective, and measurable strategy, it must also be part of the tax system changes that are going to occur in the country. Of these ideas, it has not yet been met, let's say, perhaps it has just not been discussed enough about the effect of it, how it should be done. In many ways it is easier to explain how this is done in Norway simply because of what the land looks like because of it. It's more complicated in Iceland, based on points on growing areas and stuff like that. But I think it would be interesting to keep working this idea and to get more with it in the community. However, in order to present a document at a meeting that is likely to be done and that the action will be carried out, such unity must be extended. In terms of funding, all members of the five-year budget are fully funded in this respect. When it is said, capitalization comes with the rest of the 54 projects, probably about 24 or most of them. The focus of the individual Ministry and Minister must determine the amount of money that comes in on that project every year. As we have discussed, however, it is important for the Ministry to work together on this project, and we are ready to put our basic glasses on each time we do such work. [[The president calls.]] Whether the community is in one place or another, emphasis on community matters should be observed in any case. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u111	A respectable president. It's all becoming clear and getting better with each counterpoint, so hopefully this will start right now. Thank you, Minister for this. I think a minister has been quite clear in terms of the time frames that apply to a regional strategy and then a financial plan is all made up no matter what it is called, whether it's the Ministry of Education and Culture or anything else. In terms of the insurance fee, however, it is obvious in the case of a minister that the government's colleagues have not wanted to go this way. Actually, I'm just gonna object that it couldn't have been done. A minister mentions Norway, how Norway is shaped or placed in that country. For example, it would have been perfect to take the Vestsfjörður as a test project with the insurance bill. Or Langanes, a Land of Melnakes, for example. It's part of the country where it's easy to take out and go on such a test project. But it is obvious that this was not the interest of a minister's colleagues.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u112	A respectable president. I don't know why. A senator was playing with me on the wrong side of the financing. I said it was clear that the joint that fell under a structured program was made up of the resources, the things I'm responsible for. But what we have under other departments is responsible for each minister. I don't think it could have been any clearer; so it's clear, and no one has to question that. However, there is a great deal of emphasis for the government on geographic matters. I think I can claim that people will put forth every effort in the pitfalls that hear directly under it or that are cohesive with teams of a community plan; they will put up with them to carry out the projects. There are standards that can measure and follow how they are then loved. For other ideas that have not come in here, of course, it is a matter of course that they are discussed in the Committee, and people wonder if it is wise to perform any experiment. But I wonder. For example, a member of the council mentioned here asks whether the best example is the entire Vestian. For example, on the southern coast of the West, we have a success. There is a fish farm that has completely changed its circumstances. If we take Snæfells, it's not the same thing happening there. There, the fishing road is fighting a little bit on the banks. Then it may not be as easy to draw up the map of Iceland, where it's wise to go in and where it isn't. So it may just be that we need more discussion before we go further. The one standing here is ready to share in that discussion in a positive and upbuilding way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u113	Madam President. I recommend a bill to set the dive. The bill includes an overall review of the current scuba law, No. 31/1996, but it has been a long record of reviewing them. In recent years there has been a growing dive in this country, especially with increasing tourism. Serious diving accidents have brought up a discussion of the laws and rules of scuba diving and, especially, how to monitor the operation. The objective of the bill is to explain the regulations of land immersion and uplift in the light of the above changes. The main elements of the bill are being proposed for changes and updates in various aspects of the procedure, e.g. ...of values, definitions and so on. It is also suggested that the recognition and monitoring of scuba diving equipment be shifted to the labour monitoring state in accordance with the European Convention on Personal Protection. There is a suggestion that certificates and conditions for their version will be made clearer and more detailed. It is suggested that the requirements for study are specifically prescribed, but this is not done in the current law. Finally, the study of diving accidents is proposed to be reimbursed under the NTSB Committee, but at its establishment, a group of different committees, lost a connection with current legislation. A respectable president. I have now explained the subject of the bill and suggested that it be followed by this discussion referred to why. Environment and Transport Committee and 2nd Environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u114	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to legalize the rights and duties of foreign companies which temporarily send employees to Iceland and their employees' remuneration. In view of the length of the name of this law, at times it has been called a law on general staff emissaries, and I will use it as a shortcut to my case when I recommend this bill. The bill has previously been submitted at the General Assembly, or further, for the 146th legislature, but it did not result in the release of the Council. Specific changes have now been made on the bill, including In view of comments received by the General when it was submitted last. The bill was employed in cooperation with the European Union of Iceland, the League of Colleges, the BSRBs, the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, the Union of Civil Affairs, the Organization for Employment, the Office of Work. Along with the changes made by this bill, laws on the posting of workers are proposed in the bill to change the various other laws of the national labour market, especially in order to maintain harmonisation when it comes to comparable regulations in different laws. The main purpose of the bill is the implementation of the European Parliament and the Council on the implementation of the older Directive on the work done by staff in connection with the granting of services, etc. The objective of the bill is to provide the European Commission with a better perspective on the state of a domestic labour market, on the activities of foreign service employers, including those of the European Commission. This country's staff property, as well as the number and position of foreign workers, is employed by such organisations. In addition, the aim is to strengthen the monitoring of the Icelandic labour market so that a cross-border service can be prevented from leading to social subsidies. This is especially true of the personnel and personnel broadcasts. The bill expects more information from foreign service providers, including The staff property and the private functioning of the individual. According to current legislation, such as the economic activities of a partner in a local land, such activities are the prerequisite for the granting of crossborder services based on the European Economic Area Convention. However, it was maintained that the project would be simplified so that this would not include the barrier to free service exchange on the basis of the EEA Convention. In this context, the bill also anticipates increased cooperation between the labour oce and the local administrations of the relevant provider, including the Agency's workforce. When it comes to verifying whether a foreign service provider really has economic activity in the home state. The labour market surveillance organisations are expected to share information between them if they are to detect information that seems to suggest social subheading in order to prevent violation of the rules of agreements, as the information necessary in the management of the competent authority is needed. It is suggested that the Labour Office be authorized to place administrative fines in companies, including the Management Board. Negotiations which do not provide the Agency with information and/or access to data. Furthermore, it is assumed that the same can be true in cases where the Agency has been given incorrect or insufficient information, regardless of whether intent or inaction has been involved. Is this suggested to ensure that companies, including employees' tenures, can perform their information duties so that the labour oce can supervise the activities of the Agency under law. The labour market in this country is well organized by the strong labour organisations of employees and employers who negotiate in collective labour agreements for pay and other employment remunerations in a domestic labour market as well as other aspects of the interests of employees. In 1980 a law on remuneration of remuneration and insurance rights was passed in this country, which includes paying and other remunerations negotiated by the labour market organisation as a minimum salary in the Icelandic labour market. At the same time, the above laws state that the contracts of the individual employees and professional drivers for less value than the general agreements decide to be invalid. The law was put in order to ensure that local labour market earners will have no less value than those negotiated in collective agreements. Thus, in terms of contract agreements, regardless of whether the partner enterprise is in the relevant agreements or not, all companies working in the country, foreign or domestic are forbidden to offer their employees less suitable terms than has been negotiated. Among other things, in the 2004 labour market agreement, it is a common obligation and responsibility to protect the workforce in the Icelandic labour market and to make a special decision on the salary and other contracts. It is also obligatory that all companies should respect the laws and agreements currently valid, regardless of the nationalities of the relevant enterprise or its employees. This statement emphasizes the importance of this workforce as applicable here. The same applies to the duties of the labour market organisation in order to follow up on the workforce. In view of the above, in the bill, it is assumed that the work as an agent's agent laws require the so - called chain responsibility of construction companies or human activities. The responsibility is expected, among other things, to cover the minimum wage of employees working on the company's behalf on the basis of a company's service contract or a user's company. At the same time, the responsibility is expected to cover the minimum pay of employees from other enterprises who have made service contracts based on the aforementioned service contract without a direct agreement between a controversial enterprise and a user enterprise. Is that suggested in line with Article 12. The directive, which is intended for the implementation of the bill, is responsible for such activities in certain sectors, including the aim of promoting the equal competitiveness of companies in construction operations or human activities in the Icelandic labour market by preventing foreign companies, who ignore the laws of the local labour agreements, should have a competitive prelude to other legislation and regulations. Despite this fact, in the bill it is assumed that at first the responsibility of a user enterprise in the law of emissaries is expected to be closely monitored by the labour market so that a change in the law will be made in such a way that it is important to believe that a user company with other occupations should be responsible on the basis of the workout of workers' laws. Under the circumstances of a labour market requiring this adjustment, it is assumed that a labour market bill will be submitted to the General Assembly to agree with the labour market organisation. In addition to what I have mentioned, regarding the so-called chain responsibility, which is expected to be laid up in the staff posts Act, the bill assumes the comparable responsibility of a user company on the staff property law. The nature of a case, however, is not really a chain of responsibility in those cases when it comes to staff workers, since it is generally not a chain of subpopulations in such cases as it is on the basis of a work posts. Furthermore, in the bill it is not assumed that the responsibility of a user company, under the staff rent laws, we limit certain sectors as expected from the chain of responsibility of the law on the posts that I have previously made in my case. It is suggested in the bill that the construction laws, the method of loyalty, and the safety of the workplace require the so - called contracting responsibility for the construction of buildings or for the construction of workers. This includes working in places where more than one worker is required to work simultaneously with the construction or construction of workers, it is assumed that it will be involved in the job trade or its representatives to organize and coordinate measures that ensure that the preparation, preparation and implementation of a job will be kept in full confidence, good management and loyalty. It is suggested that work is in the front of the job for a certain period of time and that the contractor also inform the government's labour control of the workplace before the job starts. As I mentioned at the outset, the main purpose of the bill is to implement the European Parliament's Directive and the Council on the implementation of older regulations for staff in connection with services, etc. Thus, the nature of a matter according to most of the bill's regulations is to change the law on the posting of employees. In order to remain consistent, however, the bill allows for changes in the law of various employment laws, such as the workforce laws, the workforce laws, the workforce laws, the workforce laws, and the security laws at work. These changes include the provision of information and cooperation by governments, which monitor the labour market as well as the legal requirements for causing practice of enterprises which do not require legal requirements in order to make monitoring more efficient than at present. Then the bill assumes that temporary employment licenses to be granted to people who have been authorized in this country and who are potential victims of a mansalze or who are victims of a man's life. In this case, the situation of these individuals may be improved and the possibility that they will be fully examined. In addition, the bill allows for specific changes in the Free Job Act and staff within the European Economic Area, which will be considered necessary in order for the Commission to be fully implemented in this country. I've been tracking the main changes this bill can expect from a number of laws that apply to a domestic labour market. In my opinion, it is very important that the bill will be adopted as the first of all here at the council, especially in view of the number of foreign citizens working in a local labour market, but in 2017 they were 12.4% of the workers in the labour market and have never been higher in this country. Based on information from the Labour Organization, over 24,000 foreign workers in the national labour market averaged in 2017, an increase from 2016 when over 20,000 were available. A total of 125 foreign service companies were registered at the 2017 Work Department, who had sent over 1800 temporary workers to this country to serve here and were a number of employees on the staff, domestic and foreign property, more than 3,100 at the same time. It may then be noted that the plans of the labour agency are expected not to reduce the activities of foreign companies that send workers to the country to provide services and foreign workers at the Icelandic labour market in the near future, but to increase the activity in the coming years. As a result, the number of foreign workers in the work market is increasing each year, and there is no question about it. In my opinion, we need to respond to this trend in order to ensure where possible that the foreign companies who send workers to the country to serve here, including You have to follow the rules here. In this regard, it is especially important to me that the relevant employees receive the pay and job documents that they have under the laws and collective contracts that apply here. A respectable president. Finally, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The welfare committee following this discussion. The bill has been done in a great deal of reconciliation and cooperation with all major labour market partners. I expect that. The welfare committee accepts this matter and promptly reverses it or makes the changes considered important by the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u115	President. Thank you very much. Minister for this passage. I just have a quick question and I admit I haven't looked at the bill yet. I haven't read it all, but it's a big one. We were assigned to the welfare committee during the last term, and it was just not possible to handle it because of the size and size of it and the small amount of time that we had. This came to us 15 minutes before the end of the council, and a similar process seems to be going on right now. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister, because very serious comments came from Pernon protection at the bill during the last term, how they responded. Also, I notice that in this discussion, there is no mention of consultation with Pernon protection. So I ask why they didn't do that. It would be good to hear the answers, whether they were or not, how they responded, and why there were no Persian protection.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u116	A respectable president. It may just be awkward not to be able in the bill to communicate with the character protection in the processing of this case from the previous day and to make some changes in it. I'm not sure that they had a hundred percent in agreement with the views Persian protection had, but the reason especially for the labour market partners is that the main lines of the bill and its main elements are aspects that they were merely agreeing with. That is why there may be more to this subject on the bill, and I did so in my speech. It is the members who have been addressing the components of the bill and how they are put in motion. I expect Persian protection to be more favorable to this case than it was last. If not, I encourage a welfare committee to look into it specifically. I don't know better than with the changes in the content of the bill now being made and the changes made between years and years, there have been consultations with Peritoneal protection.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u117	President. I appreciate the answers. Minister. It is good to hear that there was a consultation with Perone Protection, even though that was not stated. I don't really have any other questions, more comments like that. I would like to state that I am sorry for the lateness of this matter, especially in view of its importance and importance and extent, and how little time we really have left. I think it's important to give a good story period for such a big thing; that we're not rushing it through and that the stakeholders come to their remarks, and we can do this well. As head of the welfare committee, I will make every effort to do this professionally and effectively. I understand this is important. But I just wanted to come by and see that it's really hard to put on this big bill and give us so much time to take care of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u118	A respectable president. Yeah, I get it. I agree that it is always good to have things come as early as possible. The reason why the matter was delayed was that the changes made on the bill from year to year and some aspects that were in the bill last year needed more consultation between the labour market partners and the trade unions. We thought it was important that the bill be worked so that there were considerably more work on it so that both sides would be at peace with the case when it came up; it's the important thing, and discussing it with a lot of tunes, it's a tape worm. At the same time, it has been bitten by time; we do not act with it as soon as we could. But it's always line dancing. I ask the chairman of the Commission and the committee to respect the view that the thought was to try to achieve the most comprehensive agreement with the labour market partners before the bill is submitted. I think we did it. At any rate, I will be surprised if I have not been able to do so because of a considerable emphasis on it. I wish the Commission and her chairman good luck working on this case; I hope it will do it fast and well, but still without a careful legal approach.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u119	A respectable president. I recommend here, as the president entered, for a bill of a change in the law on housing No. 44/1998 with subsequent changes. The bill is the continuation of the changes made over the past few years, including with new laws about general apartments and repairs. This bill was submitted to the Council of 145, but it was not completed, and it is now presented in several adjustments. The objective of the bill is to identify the role of the government in the public service of a safe haven for the future. Governments are suggested to provide a comprehensive housing policy via the introduction of the Generality and the scope and clear role of rural partners in the construction of housing policies. The establishment of stakeholders will also be guaranteed by the establishment of a housing meeting. The conduct of government housing policy has been established as a reliable guide by sharpening the main role of camp loans to work on housing policies and to be a minister to advise on the development of housing policies, to work out information on the housing market, and to support rural development and implementation of their housing plans. One of the main roles of the fund must be assigned to the so - called stock industry, which is designed to support the building of rent houses for individuals under certain income and property boundaries, as per local law. The main changes included in the bill are first of all the changes to the laws in accordance with local laws and changes to the role of the camp loan fund, including because of the projects entrusted to him in the grant of a foundation proposal on the basis of their laws. Second, there is a sharp focus on the role of camp loan fund, rural society and the General on policy development and housing planning. The fund's role has been changed so that policies, research, analysis and planning are made higher under the heads and regulations of the rural organisation and their obligation to help those who have difficulty making housing are clear. It is suggested that local housing committees be removed, but local activities will be given to a rural government which, in its agreement, can then decide to hide others within the countryside. It is suggested that the legislation be added to a new chapter that deals specifically with housing policies and housing plans. For example, there is a new arrangement for housing conventions to be conducted every two years and the obligation of a minister to submit a Senate resolution on housing policies in order to ensure the survival of the General Assembly. Finally, adjustments are made in terms of financial resources due to credit problems for borrowing and writing. A respectable president. I have explained the basic importance of this bill, but in view of the position of housing markets, it is even more important to ensure analysis and planning in housing matters to ensure the basis for the well - being of the country that the security of individuals and families is. As soon as I suggest that the bill be referred to the welfare committee after this discussion, I would like to add that the bill presented here does not include major physical changes in a housing market. However, there are in progress, in cooperation between the Ministry and the Congregation Bank, two main areas of housing. Another way to strengthen the position of those who are entering the housing market is to be called the first buyers, who were discussed considerably in the last election. There is also the work done in cooperation between the Substitute Fund and the Ministry, and there is a challenge to support the status of housing markets in the country and how to stimulate the construction industry in areas where there has been significant market failure. As you can understand, things like this won't be done in a few months, but these cases are in progress. The bill here is more than just scrambling off a variety of baits and sharpening the items involved in the premises. And then bigger issues are coming soon. I hope they can be submitted to the next legislature.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u120	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the speech. There's one thing in all this I think I need. What is being done, or what solutions are being tried to set up, about the problem locked up in a camp loan fund, which is made up of contributions and waxing of the fund's savings and reinvestment options? When such changes are made to a considerable extent, I think that there is nothing but to consider that such a giant problem, such as it rests inside. I'm sorry, I'm not talking about the payment in this case, I'm talking about when the loans are made, since the Subcommittee is not authorized to pay off his financing. That's a problem for a lot of billions. I don't think it's an inadequate arrangement or approach to go into such an extensive conversation without any part of this problem being mentioned, as urgent as it seems. And it's not shrinking.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u121	A respectable president. Of course, it is true that in recent years there has been an accumulation of funds in the apartment loan fund, such as the winter. A senator pointed out, because individuals and businesses have been paying off their loans to the fund, and since then they have not been, let's say, competitively when it comes to growth. On the other hand, it is right here to make a good financial standing; it does bring back a positive business venture despite this. It's not that the fund is in trouble because of this. Still, a new role is needed. In fact, it has been suggested - to review all the loan rules of the fund, which are a bigger subject and can relate to the work I preached earlier at the end of my history, both in the country and in the first buyers. It will be linked to a solution in that case as a matter of course. A senator pointed out earlier. I'd also like to assume that it requires legislation and adjustment, but it's possible to reduce the growth of the fund. In the name of careful legislation, it was not possible to bring it at this brief time here because the system we have built up in terms of legalization is in terms of the need for costs of all things, especially to the apartment loan fund, since it is a financial institution. But I can fully inform you here that in progress there is a cost assessment for an independent person about making a law-change proposal to the fund so that his interest can be reduced. In particular, it would be good for the country because it is primarily the one making use of the fund's loans. [[The president calls.]] It was not possible to get this independent party to complete it before this bill's deadline came out. That is why it was taken out of the bill before it was submitted.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u122	A respectable president. I think the highest. There's a little misunderstanding for a minister. I believe it is important that the Substitute Bank is granted permission to get whatever position it is on. But the fact that the apartment loan fund is authorized to reduce growth and thus become competitive at the market does not solve the problem of the financing he is living with, which is on much higher interest. It does not solve by borrowing money on lower interest rates, although it is certainly a positive thing that the camp loan fund can get money into work. But there is another thing that I wanted to ask the highest. Minister in. He asked me, during my previous question, if I was asking for my payment. I hadn't done that, but maybe it's interesting that I do it now, if there's any opinion about it. A large number of individuals and households have made their loans and have taken on this duplication hit, but there is still a large group with their old apartment loan funding on a much larger budget of interest on the market today; people who are unable to cope with it are still abdicating because deposit fund calls them after reimbursement of the fund's recycling tools for the rest of the loans. Would it be interesting to know if there is any speculation in this regard?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u123	A respectable president. I'd just like to understand the previous answer to repeat that the camp loan fund does not have a problem with the situation today. Just like what? A senator came in is important to get the funds that are in the fund. Of course, it is part of something that is growing today, but the position of the fund and the interest it is financing over allowing the financial growth of the fund to be reduced. I reiterate what I said earlier: First, it's the most important thing in the country because it's basically the one that's taking advantage of the fund. Lowering the growth of the apartment loan fund afforded by its management is a key factor for the country's settlement. On the one hand, I want to reiterate what I said earlier that full political will is for that purpose. But the apartment loan fund is a financial firm. This requires that such actions be very well thought - out, prepared, and reasoned on by third side so that humans, as well as by reason. The senator came in, don't say, "Hey, this is going to happen with the fund's operating position." It won't, but it wasn't achieved to get into this bill at the short time it was due. Second, the cost of payment runs - I think I answered that in my written inquiry here in the council not long ago - on some billion people if they were suspended from the fund. Of course, there is work that then needs to be done, how it would be funded in return. The sea itself could not do so on its own. But clearly, it's something that my knowledge should be asked for work on the overall reexamination of the loan regulations I entered to be proclaimed. The decision could then be made in what way this fact would be worked out, as well as in what way it could be solved.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u124	A respectable president. We here discuss a bill to correct a change in housing law. I'm going to address the matter in my speech with a very specific friend and hope to the highest degree. A minister may, in some way, respond to that later. I was primarily concerned with the relatively recent role of a camp loan fund that targets policy and analysis of the post today. I've had it through before in speeches in this chair how important it is to have clear information about the status of the facility. We've had a good conversation at the highest. Minister of housing conditions for the housing market status. The reason why I specifically mention this is that it is available to form an analysis from an apartment loan fund where the fund estimates that today or at the end of 2016, the accumulated shortage of apartments was 6,000 apartments. Now, of course, it's all over the country, but I'm going to give myself most of it, though, in the capital area. At the same time, we have an analysis from rural areas in the capital area that estimates that there is a cumulative shortage, and it lacks about 1700 apartments into the market to achieve some balance. It sees everyone who wants to see that there's a huge difference between these numbers. In addition, financial companies and banks have been diligent in predicting a wide range of trends in housing markets and what the need is. Now I am absolutely convinced that there is a considerable lack of apartment property in this country, perhaps especially in the capital area. But I find that there is reason why there is some more important information about the real situation. I see that in this excellent bill, and I thank the Minister for measuring it earlier, this policy role is further being implemented by the Substitute Fund. He's supposed to be a counselor when it comes to this market's policy. Then I'd like to ask myself, " What is the nature of this market, and how complicated it is? ' I realize that when it comes to the laws on housing, the government's role is always referred to as a government to provide services in the public service of a housing market. I think I'm saying the right thing, that's the most accurate wording. A minister has used and is referred to in the report quite a bit. I still can't understand it any better than that. A minister would kindly correct me if I misunderstood, but the role of a camp loan fund is moving to evaluate the general status of the housing market. I think it's very important that someone do it. The question, however, is: Is it supposed to be an apartment loan fund or some other person? The reason why I thought of this is because I had a long time of success in the meaning that an organization had received this assignment according to a national plan. It's late this evening, and I'm not sure if I'm doing the right thing. Land plan, not national plan, land structure has become the word I was looking for. The last time I knew, the Organization had done nothing more with that wonderful work. The bill repeatedly shows that the Substitution Fund allows the government and institutions to require data and information on the housing market needed for this project and in the form the fund needs. It is repeated that this is the way to be negotiated but within a certain period of time, which is acceptable. If an apartment loan fund is to take up this information and to be a good reader when it comes to policy development, it must be necessary to have this information. I'd like to court you here, that's perhaps the reason why I come up here and discuss this, that I believe that much of this information lies in the community today, but unfortunately, we haven't yet managed to get them onto some useful interface so that they can be taken out in a simple way. This leads me to the conclusion that there is, of course, a major organization and organization in all rural areas. It makes clear how many apartments to build, what sort of apartments, their size, and so on. It is also evident that local construction agents release building permits. In fact, I'm being meant to be constantly developing some kind of database and quality equipment at the Clinic to do all of this electronically. I just want to reiterate that if there's any official person involved in this project it's a collective and not called after the local communities or other persons start working the data in a specific way, but there's a complete database that allows each individual to take information out of that database and take advantage of it, whether it's an apartment loan or some other group that wants to work with that information. The report describes the role models in other parts of the North, especially Norway and Finland. I see that this Finland State Department is under the Environment Ministry. It's an institution called the ARA. In Norway, this is Husbanken. I can't see that the report depends on what Minister or Ministry is hearing. The reason why I wonder is that I wonder if we need to take a closer look at the fact that this series of languages is in its entirety in one department. As I look at it, it's the highest measure. Minister of Social Affairs and Equality, as well as secretary of housing, for this bill today. We have the highest. Environment Minister for Organizational Organization and there has a great role in planning and construction. We have the highest, too. The secretary of transportation and unit administration, who was making a different recommendation earlier, in fact, a concierge proposal for urbanisation. There's also something involved. Obviously, it has something to do with this. Besides, we have the highest. A industrial minister, who actually has a much bigger name than just what happens to the industry. Of course, the housing market is driven by someone out there building. It seems to me that the information I have is a little different from the country, maybe in the North, where I've read it, what it's all about. I had some questions because some of the North countries were doing a little work to put this group under one department, maybe it's a good idea to review that in the past, these issues were all under the Ministry of Social Affairs when there were also rural affairs and, in some way, some of the environment, all the means of the planning and construction. I suggest that we keep this in mind when we discuss this bill and perhaps in our ongoing discussion of housing matters. I'd like to roll that up, too, if you know what I mean. A minister can be so kind as to introduce it in his second talk, that it is also referred to as increasing the role of an apartment loan fund when it comes to research. It's part of section 2 of Article 4. to be a means of promoting housing research and providing public information on housing matters. Then I wondered, " How extensive are these tests? ' Is there also an investigation based on planning and design, the design of apartments or the quality of apartments or construction research? Mold in housing is a major problem today and building too fast. Are these research programs that were once hosted in the construction organization then supported by a industrial minister become part of the research that the camp loan fund will be doing? If not, I think it is very important that we have a comprehensive view of the location of research, or where to contribute to the research of housing and construction markets. It is also important to note that, of course, this is also a health and welfare problem when it comes to housing quality. I don't think I have this further, and I hope that I have achieved the reflections or speculations I have about this otherwise good bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u125	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For her speech, Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir's jealousy. The Senator has quite a background experience in rural operations, that's the kind of friend I'd like to discuss with the senator. Like what? Congress members are aware of the main duty of rural society to consider housing and housing for people who are unable to provide for their own housing, and thus it is inevitable to have a high opinion of the housing and structure of their community. I'd like to ask the senator, "Do you think? " A senator following the laws of this matter, i.e. The development of rural society and housing planning, as presented above, are there not improvements, and can, in many ways, make the rural communities easier with long-term planning? For example, they cannot make it easier for the inhabitants to realize it, e.g. When choosing a home, what community has the most suitable place to live, or let's say the population's home plan? Or do they have any plans that will make the population important in this regard?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u126	A respectful president I believe that the ideas and policies laid out in the law on housing plans and the requirements for rural development are greatly improved. I think that makes it possible for local communities to become better aware of the situation within the community. But I'm also worried that it's a relatively short time since this began, and I think we're taking some step forward. But I'm just a little worried that the housing plans are just or too much compared to the social support and social systems. As I've understood, this is the country's housing plan. I agree with that. A member of the council that it is the key and duty of the community to provide the necessary housing and cannot do so for themselves, but there are different ways to do so. As we look ahead to the facilities that have been located at the last year's housing market, it also makes it particularly difficult for rural society to fulfill this obligation, when there is nothing built, and where there is no supply of housing. Then there are ways to rent, rent, and so on, but when there is no housing, it is neither the local society that can provide it nor anyone else. But I think it's very important to keep a balance on the housing market. This actually benefits everyone, both those who need public support, either to obtain or to rent homes and others who are renting or buying on the market.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u127	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. It is good to hear that the senator agrees with me in that although this will certainly mean work for the rural communities in some cases, it is hardly possible to view this as a burdensome task for them. I agree with the senator that community housing plans and housing policies are not to be solely supported by society in the community. They are to be concerned with something much more, and in fact, at least some rural society has made housing plans for them. The community I know most about has at least done so, i.e. Copatives. Among other things, a very detailed housing policy has been performed where conditions in organizational terms are expected to disappear, e.g. how much rent houses there should be, how many specific types of housing, and how much social housing. These factors are of utmost importance, especially when we think that there will be a lack of too uniformity and people who will be given the opportunity to get to know all the surfaces of society, that children will go to a wide variety of schools, etc. All of these are so vital to ensure community cohesion and to ensure that every member of the community has an understanding and a sense of what is in them.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u128	A respectable president. I agree completely with this. I watched Kopavogstown - or I should say, Kopavogsburg - when he was working on his housing policy. I think it was totally exemplary. I think a lot of societies could take up that type of work. I take my mind to see that diversity is very important. But I think a number of rural communities have taken the main policy of ensuring that housing is available for all age groups and for people in all kinds of situations. I agree, I think it's very important. Perhaps that is why I was discussing it here in view of the fact that this is now being suggested that the Substitution Fund be given a very extended task, i.e. to receive these housing programmes and that they involve not only social housing but also the overall housing market. Then I think it's important to look at all aspects, and I'm also concerned with cooperation with other departments and other institutions that have this to do. Then I'm first of all stressing to make sure that we're not doing the same things in many places, that we're defending the money. I also reiterate what I said earlier that information is available to the market, I think it's very important. The data are all there, it's just a matter of putting them in an accessible format so that as many as possible can approach them.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u129	Mr. President. There are a number of things that arise when you read the available bill on the change of housing law. It's, in a few short notice, my favorite agency, an apartment loan fund. I am one of those who for many years have had very serious doubts about the right to continue the operation of a camp loan fund. This bill is a definite attempt to restore some support, or more accurately, arguments, to the need for the state to have an apartment loan permanently. But I think it's about time we seriously discuss it in this room, like anywhere else, that the apartment loan fund is kind of a nightfall compared to the development that has taken place. There may have been evidence, good evidence, here in the past that the State was building loans on a housing market, whether it was a Housekeeping agency or a construction fund for workers. But what was good once does not necessarily have to be today. In itself, I also have serious doubts about how we generally stand in housing, how we are supporting young people in particular, but in fact just all those who try to make our dream come true - how we're behind them, e.g. in the form of growth reform, which is in my mind little more than subsidies on interest rates, and I am not sure that they will end up in the pockets of the subsidies. I took it for two years ago that by the time we reached the state's budget, about 247 you. Millions in housing - 247 billion in 15 years Of these, 176 billion were in interest of interest, 63 billion to prevent the collapse of camp loans. Then I escape the enormous sums of money that went into the debt called the forwarding party government and the Independence Party. The reason why I mention this is exactly because if we put this into context, we aim for an apartment 30 million, the state's budget would have had a T-shirt in those 15 years to put 20% of its own money, or 6 million, to over 40,000 buyers who were buying their first apartment. In other words, we could have put 20% to 40,000 families who were buying their first apartment instead of protecting them so unwisely in interest of interest, and then in saving a camp loan. And now we're here with the bill, trying to shoot some further arguments or maybe justification for the fund's existence. This seems to me to be an example of the wrong paths that we have experienced in recent years. I'm afraid, as often as it has been, no one can be identified because I think all political parties or most of them have in one way or another played a part in molding these policies, a course that I think was wrong in the foundation. As we look at these things and try to see them from a distance, I think that the conclusion that we have concluded is that we have not spent our money wisely and have not made it possible for people to own their apartment, become self - worth - not based on the special policy that I hold very dear. I think we should unite on that. You see, I think the government's main policy is to build up and make sure that individuals can attack their largest investment in life. We're supposed to lose weight with people in that regard. And a lot of things have been done. You can now use your special property savings in this way, all of that helps. It has been claimed, including in the discussions here tonight, that the role of the camp loan fund is very important. We may be going to discuss it further here, most likely the next fall if I understood the best. Minister right. It has been claimed that it was of enormous importance that the camp loan fund is working to ensure the financing of apartment trades in the country, in the country. In other words, local language. That's the basic reason, except that you're creating an analysis department, doing projects full of other sources, private agents, you're doing. I wondered, " Is it wise to develop such a way that there should be an official loan institution, which is to include stock production, then also take care of analysis and shape, and provide counseling on government housing policies? ' This isn't working. This isn't a good idea. Especially when other people are doing these tests and do so very well. The industrial organization is one party. One of the most outstanding analyses at the Icelandic housing market is at the National Bank, where an economist Ari Skúlason is leading a team and likely has more knowledge than most others on housing. Regarding the claim that it is necessary for us to continue living and working according to local policy - I, a child born despot, always become virgins in the heart when it comes to regional and regional policies, they all matter to us, whether we live in the country or here in the capital area - there is evidence that these claims are simply false. I'm not going to review how the camp loan fund has left behind in general markets, it's all right in the report. But I'm just going to point out an answer to an inquiry from Unnur Konráðsdóttir Kons Councildóttir as the highest. However, on January 1, 2016, to December 31, 2017, the secretary of transportation and rural government granted the share of loans at the apartment loans and other requirements for the period of 1 January 2016 to the 31st, U.S.A. That's a very remarkable reading. The share of apartment loans in the capital area is 1.5% of borrowed loans, mortgages in apartment housing. In Westland, 3.6%. At the West, 1.24% last year. Northern West 5.6%. Northern Island, 1.6%. East, top, 7.2%. Southland, 2.8%. 3.4% in Southnes and Western islands, 3.5%. This is the share of an apartment loan fund that was granted in 2017 and is clearly and clearly expressed in the answers to the highest. Transport and Regional Ministers. If they're going to argue that it is necessary to keep an apartment loan fund and continue its activities based on the basis of the facts, I think that the evidence fell with the answer given in the past winter. It's not. There are other ways. In time, should an apartment loan fund have some other kind of payment? For example, we can look to experience when we had the construction fund of workers. I think there's such a thing to be discussed. I think there's evidence that there is a government loan fund that works on the responsibility of a trust fund, we can't escape the fact that lends loans to people who may have a low income. But it cannot be tied to some geographic region. So it's just making people that the lowest income has ever been possible, hopefully, to have their own place. However, that is a discussion we should take. But this institution cannot also be performing a diagnostic and counselling role and granting planning and granting counsel on housing policies to the government and other sources. It doesn't make sense. It is unfaithful that an institution involved in the loan trade of a diagnostic unit which should then provide counselling to the management board to make decisions in building housing policies, which then directly affects the other part of the operation, which is even a major part of the work. I would have thought that in a calm manner, we should ask ourselves, " Is it not wise to prepare rather for the appearance of independent parties? ' The more we consider to be, the more the analysis is and the more our viewpoints are, the better it can be the input that we need, the input that does the highest. The secretary of the house is able to shape a real policy for the future in housing matters. I think it's a much more reasonable approach. It will be interesting to see, after a hearing on a committee, how the bill comes to the 2nd. This may be because late in the evening there are no more in the hall, but I would have expected that in itself... Minister, as long as we're in the gym, we agree on that. [[Flmrh.But good.]] However, I expected that more people would respond, and more people would contribute to this because it is extremely important that we succeed. It matters to everyone. This is one of the things I think we should be dealing with.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u130	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason for an up-to-date and good speech. I know why. A senator has taken a very good look at the affairs of the camp loan fund, which is one factor in the environment of everything I asked the highest. Minister to here earlier tonight, i.e. problems inside an apartment loan fund that turns to a failure regarding when the proposed funds of an apartment loan fund, which he is not authorized to renovate, and then the possibility of getting their money ahead. The loans are not permitted, and the camp loan fund has limited ability to repay, and then it would be in the interest of anything other than funding was in its time. Counts 'em out. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason says it's a serious problem with the fund? Has he developed an opinion of what can be done in this regard? In the past, he made it clear that he has doubts that the funds are in winter setting, at least Not many. I would be interested in hearing a point of view. A senator in this regard, because this is a serious matter. In my opinion, it will no longer be avoided, nor will the way you plan to get out of your problems make you feel that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u131	Mr. President. Of course, you're right by what you're doing. paritaprevir Bergthó Ólason, this is one of the big problems that the camp loan fund has had to deal with. True, it is being tried to resolve with a height of 18. This bill or provisional directive so that the funds can be given to reimburse new loans, etc. [[Up front.]] I realize that, but I don't see how men can solve the problem with some fifferi. The problem is real and he's there. The sea must carry it. That is one of the things we need to face, even though the business of the fund itself has achieved balance - and it is a cause for joy, let us keep to what has been done well. You see, I think the fund was quite successful in managing the business. The director and employees of the fund are to be commended for this. But I don't see how we solve our money problem in any way other than that the difference goes against the fund, he must always do it. I don't see how it's possible. There are then other men, great men, than I, who can figure it out. This is a problem that we just look at, and unfortunately we need to live with the same growth environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u132	V.E.G. President. Here we will discuss a change in the law on housing, the important category of work that has been done for the past few years. A package leaflet containing this document will make a statement about housing conditions from 2015 as follows: ▪ The country's choice of farm shapes must be increased and housing security is more maintained, in accordance with individual needs, especially family less income. The focus points are: First, the increase in practical and inexpensive apartments. Second, there was an increase in housing and construction costs. Third, a public tenet is supported. Fourth, buy out the first apartment. In recent years, I have had a huge lot of work to do in housing, so I witness, for example, this agreement, and from it. Yet, the situation is that we need housing. This bill is a factor in improving the situation. The objective of the bill is, among other things, to identify the role of the government in the public service and to provide a solid way for the future. Governments are suggested to provide a comprehensive housing policy with the presence of the General and to enhance the role of rural partners in building housing policies, to quote this document. The main focus of the bill is to change the role of the camp loan fund because of the projects entrusted to it by providing for the stock production on the basis of their laws. Here, senators have talked about an apartment loan fund. I listened to what I heard. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason's questions about his role and participation in the housing market. I would like to express my satisfaction, however, with the emphasis on cohesion, support for areas that have been difficult to support because we know that in certain areas construction has not occurred and housing has not been built for a longer period of time. We need to find ways to strengthen our settlements and strengthen the inhabited earth. I agree with what. A senator tells us that we need to work hard. We need to lay tight on this document here, and I hope we have a chance to still improve the situation in this area. I thank the Minister for volunteering.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-51.u133	A respectable president. I thank you for the discussions that have been discussed and decided to come up here at the end of the day to try to introduce any of the factors that might arise. During this discussion, members of Parliament began. I'd like to start with that as long as possible. Haraldsdóttir But it's going to be more important in this bill. That's right, as a matter of fact. A senator came in there, that it's done in this bill. I think it's really important. We look to our neighboring countries in this context, such as why. A senator quoted his speech. For example, we look at Norway and Finland, where the sisterhood institutions of the Substitute Bank include being governments for counseling, analysing housing and building specific resources that the market itself does not do: resources in the country, resources for the early buyers, and resources for prisoners' housing, for example. There is an organization that is involved in housing, which is closely involved with the government in matters related to this. Hv. A senator was wondering if this analysis work belonged to a Organization or an apartment loan fund and asked what it was like in other countries. I think that's absolutely right. A senator came in, and regarding these factors, it is of utmost importance that housing issues depend on the same Ministry. That's how I think -- I think, I don't think, I'm going to say it -- that if we compare ourselves with the northern countries, Iceland is the only country where the Minister who handles housing doesn't handle construction regulations and construction legislation. Then I'm not saying that it's supposed to be moving over to a housing minister or the one standing here, but I think it's very important that everything that falls into this category is together. This is one of the things people have been considering and have been examined in cooperation with labour market partners, etc., whether there's a reason for any change. But there are larger changes that cannot be made by one minister. Strategies were only implemented. I think it's extremely important, like what's happened. A senator was wondering, not to be a member of the community development programme, but to be plans for the development of rural communities to make plans to meet the need for housing that is present in the countryside, underneath the assigned property. It has to be concluded that to reduce the high housing instruments there are clear information on the country's need for housing each year for ten years ahead and, at the same time, the plans for the rural community to be assigned to a sufficient number of areas and so on in order to meet the housing programmes made. If we can get the impression that such work is going to be done in a few years, I think we can actually reduce the distance between housing markets. I can see that there will be a continuing programme for the long term reducing the fluctuations of the housing market and keeping this as if it should be in the hands of intelligent people, so that it is not fixed. Then there's why. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, who had a fine look at these matters in the platform earlier. He was wondering if a camp loan fund was not a child of its time, or a nightgown as he put it. There was a significant debate over the future policy of the Substitute Bank in the last terms approved by the General Camping and the Sports Act. It was a step then that the Substitution Fund was increasingly to develop in order to become a sort of housing facility like known in other northern countries. For one thing, it was done by moving housing benefits from a labour agency to an apartment loan fund and thereby sharpening his role in these materials. So I'd like to say that the vision of a Senate world in its last term has made the decision that the camp loans should continue to develop in this direction, but certainly have a point of view. Among other things, a member of the congregation and other brothers in the congregation heard and did so in that discussion. But then this policy was set. That's what we're working for. Dr. Husbanken, Norway, has a variety of analyses and other factors, as I did earlier. I think it's only positive that the government has the kind of equipment that a camp loan fund is to help with housing, whatever it is the Minister of hosthood at any time. After all, one of the largest cost to each family is housing. Hv. A senator made it clear that the river had excellent analysis at the National Bank and other private agencies. But there are also borrowers, such as the apartment loan fund and the rest of it, who are actually much more efficient at a loan market than there is ever an apartment loan. Just as we've been able to fit in here, the financial loans of the Substitute Bank have drawn quite a bit. One of the steps taken during the last terms was that the fund marked a policy of being where the market could not take care of things. As in the case of low income, with assistance to the first buyers, to national and market areas. I ask myself, " Do these big banks, even if they're in some part of the state market today, show so much interest in these areas? ' I can't see it, and I haven't seen it, nor have I any special emphasis on their plans in the future to pay loans, whether on the northeast corner, on the West, on Eastern or in Hunsar County, for example. I think it is extremely important that the fund succeeds in this direction, but it is tailored for growth and for its future. Hv. Óli Björn Kárason and Bergþór Ólason spoke from time to time about how the fund was in enormous trouble over payment. I'd like to reiterate that it's not. In spite of the high cost of money, the fund has been reassigned year by year. There was also vision here in the collapse and after a collapse to keep the fund inside and bring the money into it. I think it's extremely important to us, and it's becoming a nightstay, as used earlier, that doesn't apply to the fund in this case. He's incredibly important. I'd like to say, because it's time to be twelve, that I hope that a word was used to describe us councilmen, who are here to night to discuss this matter, but not in the fund. To this I would like to say: " I hope the welfare committee will take this matter for a good consideration and an opinion. ' I hope it can be legal here before a council leaves for summer's vacation.
