ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u1	V.E.G. President. One of the most interesting things I do is meet people who suggest their time and abilities to create and create something new for the good of the community. It is the achievement of such people, who work for innovation, which contributes to a valuable creation, and especially to progress. It is just such a person who put forth great effort that has now established the first form of telepathy. The website Málllda.is has come up and began serving a number of individuals who need mental - health care. It is the only active telepathy services that have met every requirement and were granted permission from the surgeon's office. It uses mind - boggling behavioral treatment, one of the most widely tested psychological treatments for depression and anxiety. This calls for a more broad range of measures because of reduced psychiatric symptoms, especially in younger people, to seize them at the first stage of the problem. That is exactly what a group of people aged 186.55 years with mild to moderate symptoms of anxiety and depression, who are in desperate need of more options and better access to mental - health care. During the past two years, there have been many progressive steps to expand that service, and it is now offered free psychological services for children at most clinics. Yet, there is still something we have to do with the psychological services for adults, even though some step has already been taken. That is why we should be open to new ways and take up resources in the system where modern technology and varied services are being used. Not to be overlooked is the fact that serving in the country area, where there is often a very limited service. A psychologist on the first Monday of a month is not acceptable in modern society. This is simply a means of providing resources that respond to technology, which is cheaper, increasing access to people, and there is no need to wait for the ministry. It is wish that the system, both health care and education systems, would see opportunities in such pioneers, provide benefits for such initiatives that will improve the well - being of the people of the country and improve national health care.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u2	Mr. President. In the pages of the November 20, issue of Awake!, an interesting and effective article was published by Ingvar Stefánsson, president of the Swine Prayer Association. He even rolls there. Swamp prices have increased by an average of 12% at the same time when pig farm prices have dropped by 13%. Although the import of pork has been multiplied, the reduction to farms does not seem to return to consumers, the intermediate population is only taking more to heart. Icelandic pigs and poultry farmers are doing an excellent job of manufacturing their crops. I think that most people here have read or heard of how well Icelandic is coming out of a wide range of infections that live in different parts of the world. Freedom is important, but freedom can also be a costly price. I am convinced that wholesome harvests are important to our health, for we are what we eat. Something I'd think, too, that moss and food infections are good for the economy, like that, if that's gone. How can it be said that the government is no better at our excellent production? To tell you the truth, I think I'm the best. Seafood and agricultural ministers need to work out. In the country, a meat that I allow myself to say is in no way comparable to that Icelandic. V.E.G. A marine dignitaries and agricultural ministers just shrug off their shoulders and swear everything he didn't become a minister when the contracts were signed. I have to say, it's about time that farmers get a minister who's with them instead of the store.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u3	A respectable president. Last night, a touching picture of two men who are firmly in the hands of a report handed to the others was seen. They're happy men to see. The picture describes harmony. Kind of relieved. These are Benediktsson Beneaktsson, chairman of the Independence Party and former head of Icelandic finance and current financial minister, and Dr. Hannes Hólmsteinn Gissurarson Grisurson, chief of the Independence Party in recent decades, and motivated by the U.S.A. to make the country a low tax area for people who do not want to pay their dues to their community. Iceland would be an exile. The report as the ideologies of the Independence Party was here handing over to the head of the Independence Party and was paid at a high price, involved in the innocence of the Independence Party. It discusses how the collapse was not to blame for the Independence Party, the group that directed the nation's economic affairs throughout the years, but especially during the season, and especially that the collapse of the former procurator of the Independence Party is not to blame. Similarly, the collapse was not to blame for bankers. The shock was to teach others, especially the states where ourexplosaries were sled off the course. A respectable president. We now involved in politics are neither better nor smarter than those who did such jobs in the years leading up to collapse. What we have ahead of them, however, is the knowledge of the woes brought on land and nation by economic e - mail policies and uncontrolled capitalism. It is very important that we draw correct conclusions from these events, but this will not be done by reading the defenses of old disasters even if public funds are paid. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u4	Mr. President. It was so yesterday to the highest. A seafaring minister presented a bill to the General for the change in fishing costs. I expect that bill will then come to the 1st. In a short time, and I expect that conversation at the Assembly Hall to be useful, and people focus on reaching a reasonable conclusion on this arrangement. But this is why this morning, with a prescripted little fish in a large pond, was held on a fishing day. It is an excellent signature to reflect the reality that the modern fishing work is taking on an enormously aggressive international competition. 98% of all fish products in Iceland are sold on foreign markets. That was a very interesting point to consider. But there was another theme that was most interesting at this meeting this morning. This was a discourse from an accountant from the Deloitte accountant's Office on the recovery of Icelandic fishing soil in 2017. It explains the picture that we have previously discussed in this Assembly Hall that the income of the fishing road in 2017 is falling together about 10% since 2016. By 2017, the production is teeming in nearly 20% from 2016, and the cost in the seafront is rising by up to 50% in those years. This is the situation that we are facing, and this must be part of the discussion when we take this fishing arrangements for this discussion. We want the fishing route to be competitive on a global scale. Then it must matter. We want the fishing industry to thrive across the country and from different businesses, big and small, to thrive across the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u5	A respectable president. We live in a community where there are different religious beliefs. People are convinced in different ways from a religious viewpoint and a so - called philosophy of life. I can say here that I have some study of life that others might, in fact, even name religious in some context. You can really take that discussion. On the other hand, I feel that there is no room for discussion here, that I have nothing to do here, talking about the truth of the resurrection of Jesús Kristur from the Bible, or going into the evolution theory against the strange second story found in Genesis. Happily, most people today do not take that story literally. I'm referring to this because it does, however, happen to have us in our own constitution, in 62 C.E. ................................. the regulations of the European Lutheran Lutheran Church, which is to be supported and protected by the National Church in Iceland. You will also find 2 mg. 1st par. By permission of the president's law on the status, administration, and practices of the National Church: ▪ The School in the Name of Saint Trinitarians and Registration in a People's Index contributes to the National Church. Now I have no consideration for the fact that religions and lifestyles place some such thought into their rules. But I don't think it's appropriate to have this in the laws that apply to all Icelanders. I don't think it's okay to have this in the constitution that's supposed to apply for all Icelanders. I think it's as ridiculous as if I were going here to reason with people about some religious point of the Bible or the Koran or other religious writings, the Book of Mormon or each. I don't think this is the place. I don't think that's appropriate. I think we should stop.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u6	Mr. President. I'd like to make it a subject of a new council I've proposed, which gives victims of domestic violence and sexual abuse the right to abduct. I have received 1/3 members of Congress with me on this important matter. With the agreement of the case, these violations will allow for their exclusive rights to, without cost, to be met without a criminal record. This can happen when criminal cases e.g. drop down on a level of research for various reasons, such as the failure of the police or because there is insufficient evidence that criminal justice is not there or when the criminal case is justified. Under such circumstances, private matters may be possible to obtain the exclusive requirements, which are less than criminal proof requirements. Then it would be a new form of slavery. The lawgiver has already decided that in some cases the applicant's economic situation, e.g. In nationalities, matters related to social and such conflicts. I, along with my partners, feel that domestic violence and sexual abuse have no place in that category, a case allowing a rape. Mr. President. The economic status of the people and the family should not be determined whether to obtain private rights in domestic violence and sexual abuse. I would like to use this opportunity to give special commendation to individuals, the Rúna Guðmundsdóttir and others who have just pointed out that this is a broken pot, and we can do better. Mr. President. I've just proposed a case that will legalize the United Nations agreement on the rights of disabled people. [[The president calls.]] I think it's the same thing. This is a matter of righteousness, and I hope we can demonstrate in a paradox way that we want it to work out. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u7	Mr. President. I want to draw attention to three facts that have become evident in recent years. First of all, the European Union of Iceland reported on the development of tax burden - the report was published in August 2017 - an increase in tax burden in all income groups and most in the lowest, most. The explanation is that a person's withdrawal has not been made to develop as it should, making the decision to rule. On the one hand, the highest response has been made. For the sake of my inquiry, during the past five years, the housing of the index number has been absorbed, vacuumed, 118 billion from its homes through the price-separated loans, while overall prices increased by 15 billion. Third, the fact presented in reply is the highest. The Minister of Justice, which I allowed myself to ask, was driven out of their homes during the years since collapse, in 14,000 families, Icelandic families, fathers, mothers, and children. This has to be done. Let me give you a few things that include building defenses in behalf of our homes. First of all, a bill supported by all members of the Gangs and the Central Party is about growth and insurance, where insurance is very tight. On the one hand, there is a synopsis, which I will measure for later this day, that the taxation of poverty, i.e., will cease. to stop taxing revenues that do not charge forwards according to official guidelines. Third, in spite of the royal decree of February 9, 1798, there is a need to determine what it can be like, where credit agencies cannot produce originals.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u8	Mr. President. It is part of our work here at the council to monitor and receive information from the chairman, Prime Minister, the government on how things are going, what we are discussing and what we need to make decisions. A lot of times, when there's a misunderstanding in this matter, what was agreed and what was done, everyone will be running up here to the President's conference board, and then there's a call for a long time. This is not a good look, but it is necessary if you do not respond. I especially want to thank the highest. The prime minister of Katrín's Jakobsdóttir for her efforts to respond, not just accept the living she has received and do things as they have always been done, but listen to this and respond. She has been meeting twice with a prime committee since her arrival, first in spring and again this month, and then there was a great meeting that we were given responsible for the Council of the Council on the Presidency Committee, responsible for the Management Board's work programme, the committee heads of committees, and then members of Congress responsible for the immediate program. We have a meeting at the Ministry Committee on how the government is working on the affairs, how it is acting as Prime Minister, over the Board of Directors, but rather about how things go on, so that at the council, we can begin to learn more about this and plan our work better. This is just the right response to demand for more information and helps us to cooperate better. Thank you so much for that. V.E.G. President of Congress, Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, met Pirata's council earlier, and we discussed certain matters of opinion that have been raised regarding decisions and information. There was a very clear approach on how we could better walk into a meeting in order to make decisions and not have to be unsure about it afterwards and then run up into a talk chair and argue about it. It's a professional procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u9	A respectable president. More of a respectable president. On March 6, 2009, the current respectable president, then secretary of finance, signed government travel policies. Six. According to one estimate, daily expenses should be paid at all costs other than far costs, including Travel costs to and from airports. Seven. says that the support and benefits of hosting and feeding that Kingdom workers enjoy during the stay are to be made up of day - to - day allowances. Some time ago, I asked how much these reimbursements were. The answer was that tradition had not been created for making a special assessment of the scope so that it resulted in deduction from everyday spending. So it's not like they're following the rules. When I asked a travel cost committee what this was all about, whether people didn't know what lunch was, the answer was just no. The standards required to enforce these rules have not been established in 2009. We need to take a little thought here. These are, in effect, remunerations, e.g. Ministers who always get a shuttle to the airport but still get their daily money for a shuttle on the Minister's car. Senators. I attended a conference in Finland the other day and received a day's allowance. Still, I had made known that the program would include dinner organized, etc. which I asked to be taken into account. It couldn't be done. When I looked for information about it, I could not be told how much to pay back. I'm trying to pay back what's supposed to be done by the rules. You can't, because they don't know how much to pay back. As far as I'm told, no one has even asked about this before. This is a personal pay raise for ministers and senators, who are somehow unscrupulous in a very strange way. A financial committee and secretary of finance may expect this matter to be taken up and considered how much the state has paid more than today for members and ministers in those nine years. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u10	President. The city of Reykjavík attracts all sorts of people who have all kinds of things to do, which is good. This week you found these Norwegian nurses. The announcement of that meeting caught my attention. A statement published yesterday made that pay balance was the main theme of this big meeting. They state that a survey of remuneration shows that pay differences between men and women are considerable and women in standard female articles, such as nursing, have about 80% of the pay in male branches at a similar level of education, according to Norwegian nurses. The government sent out a statement, claimed to have enough pay, and calls for a political response to an unfair amount of pay on jobs requiring comparable education. I have to say, that's where I agree. As a result, in our spring, we, along with a good group of members of Parliaments, were called to lead a conversation between the labour market partners and the European Union on a special campaign, a national agreement, about the improved pay of the women's classes. The campaign included, including A special agreement would be made to improve the salary of these classes. As it all goes on, the matter changed in the conduct of the council, and more of the General and Education Committee made a suggestion that has now taken over. The matter was to be examined further. I hereby declare my interest in the fact that there will be a political response to this matter; this could just become an excellent introduction to future talks because those voices are not shutting up. We are just beginning here, calling for this injustice and instability to be corrected and called for a political reaction.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u11	Mr. President. Next year, more closely on September 3, 100 years have passed, Iceland's annual flight anniversary. That will be 100 years since Avro 504K took its first turn in the Hydromosis. I expect to propose a Senate resolution after the week's election, a suggestion that the government will organize a celebration, a program, to celebrate this turning point on the grassline in the country; Iceland's Airlines Association, the Air History Association, and Iceland's Air Force. It is clear to everyone what flying and flying in Iceland have given us an important place in the transport and employment development of the country, both within and outside the country, and it is appropriate for us to celebrate this stage. The flight in Iceland is a large part of the nation's history over the last century. Much of the land's production has to do with the flight. In 2011 the fraction of land production was estimated to be 6.6%, according to the Oxford Economics report. Today, this ratio is estimated to be in the range of 12◯14%. I have spoken for a long time that this 2011 report will be reassigned for important information, perhaps especially in connection with the conditions that exist and have been discussed in the past few weeks and months. Finally, I'd like to rejoice as a minister of transportation has proclaimed here from the panta Alla Council that there will be a flight policy for Iceland so that a well - established program on these matters would be established on the part of the government in a manner similar to that of many foreign countries.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u12	Mr. President. Official investments and government projects are of vital importance to all of us. Most of us agree in basics to pay for these items from our joint funds. Thus, it is reasonable to expect a successful outcome in these matters and to have us politicians show responsibility and departments when it comes to setting a framework for such projects. Good work for long periods of time. We should be able to stand together, regardless of political divisions. Sadly, we have far too many examples of investments and projects that have failed to meet the basic criteria. Recent examples are Válla Passways to be used in the autumn of 2016 that have not yet been opened; they were to cost 9 billion but will cost about twice as much; and a new hospital hotel to open the spring of 2017 but have not yet been opened; they also exceed the cost. The morning issue of August 30, U.S.A., said the highest. Secretary of finance on the Vadala-Hall tunnel: ▪ This, of course, is a tremendous disappointment, that this project will be billions more expensive, but plans were originally planned. I'll say the highest words. Secretary of finance. However, we need to do more than declare disappointment. We must act and do better. As a result of my initiative and the restoration, the Allied Council agreed to agree with one hearing on the guarantee of quality, efficiency and effectiveness of public investments. It is proper for us senators to encourage the highest degree. The secretary of finance to turn an emergency away from working on this important conclusion and that we help to gain the small amount of money, compared with the benefits, in order to get this improvement started. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u13	V.E.G. President. I'm gonna make it my subject here with the same language as that. paritaprevir The Teitur Björn Einarsson talked about, which is the bill on hunting costs. This bill was introduced to us basemen last night in the government, and I've been this way to understand it and go through it. At first glance, it seems to me that there are many ways to improve, that simple calculation, that makes the decision closer to time with the algorithm. Yes, that may include what I felt was an improvement. What I couldn't find in this bill is what's good for small and medium-sized outputs. I was disappointed because I had hoped that it would be handled. There's a lot of trouble in this article, especially in low and medium-sized designs, wherever they start or where the ships start or quit. The decline in emissions over the last 12 years from 950 by branch division to 380 this year is a very serious matter. As shown in a talk given at the beginning of the year, a seabed must flourish throughout the country. A senator, but then we also need to deal with the problems that are obvious. The minister said yesterday that fishing was necessary, that everyone paid for it, also took up on and catch salmon. [[The president calls.]] But who goes to the top and hunts salmon? There are not Jón and Gunna in the box in Bronson, there are some who can afford to hunt salmon. [[The president calls.]] That's why this bill isn't right, and I'll take it better later.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u14	A respectable president. It happened 35 years ago that the human race went to the place of likely few or never before being completely destroyed, on September 26, 1983. On that day, the Soviet Army's computer system indicated that the United States had attacked the country. If not for a soldier's decision to ignore the announcement proved to be a computer failure, nuclear war would have broken out. Today, we are still here 35 years later, and we live in an age where nuclear weapons are a constant threat to the life and existence of the earth. It does not matter whether their use of drugs may result from an unscrupulous or deliberate decision. Therefore, it is especially important that all the world's governments, all the governments, come together and try to prevent these weapons from forming, which can destroy all life on earth. ICAN is an organization that has won the Nobel Peace Nóbel that has adopted today, September 26, the fight for an international ban on nuclear weapons. ICAN representatives will arrive here for the country next month at the highest level. Prime Minister Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, in connection with NATO's disarmament conference. I think it's very important that all of us here and the Iceland government try to build a bridge between the states that are member states to NATO that have progressively prevented signing this Convention ICAN and so ICAN. It is in our best interests all of us that, as most countries, they sign this covenant with Nóbel Peace winners, ICAN.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u15	A respectable president. Today, I come here to welcome especially government action to promote the future of Icelandic issues. A clear view of the Icelandic situation and its support provides a basis for effective education and, at the same time, an unbreakable part of education. Icelandic is the basis for active democratic discussion, maintenance of knowledge, maintenance of culture, and so many other things. Recently, Lilja Alfreðsdóttir, Education and Culture Minister, presented a number of measures aimed at strengthening the status of the Icelandic language. The measures taken to strengthen the different aspects of our nation's affairs, but the aims of all of them are to the same well; to ensure continued use of Iceland in all areas of Icelandic society. Some of the measures have already been taken, particularly in support of private media efforts and reimbursement systems to support the Icelandic publication. But there's more to it than that, including. United States is expected to have a controversy proposal in 22 parts of Icelandic as a national language. It has one of the three main objectives of promoting Icelandic education. Here, let me mention some of the projects that depend on that goal. First, it is estimated that there will continue to be activities related to the National Convention on Reading. This will emphasize that if you have a language that is different from English, children as well as adults, you will receive an appropriate and equivalent opportunity for Icelandic education and support according to your individual needs. Under it, there will be a skill to be performed and a study project made suitable for this group. Furthermore, access to online vocabulary and language collections will be opened during the course of the teacher's work. [[The president calls.]] It is particularly enjoyable to see the harmony between these measures and the educational policy of the Agency's great work programme last year.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u16	Mr. President. I recommend a synopsis of an operation plan for 2019◯22022 to strengthen the status of children and young people. The signature of the proposal reads: In order to strengthen the position of children and young people and their families in this country, the General concluded that the government would provide a four - year budget for a four - year strategy. The procedure is based on some of the factors involved. the right of children as defined by the United Nations Convention on Child Rights. First, the proposal discusses general action and consultation, and it says: A third optional book on the United Nations Convention on Child's Rights, which we call a children's Convention, will be legally established here in 2019 C.E., to follow a campaign where governments and judges will be instructed on the requirements of the child's covenant to serve children. Appropriate follow-up measures, including Necessary adjustment. Children will be prepared for presentation and introduction on the implementation of the report in the country. To ensure harmonization and follow-up of action in behalf of children and children's families in the area of the Commission and the rural community, a group of representatives of social and social equality, health, education and culture, justice, transport and the European Union will be appointed. The head of the group will be appointed by the Department of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. The Group reviews the United Nations Court of Childbearing Committee of the United Nations since January 2012 regarding the implementation of the European Convention of Children, the 2011 Council of Ministers to Member States on the rights of children and child-friendly social services to children and families and the European Council on protecting children from sexual abuse and sexual abuse. Also, the head-of-the-head report of the children's emissary from 2017 on the main concerns as well as the recent reports of an agent of the children. The body of elders offers suggestions on how to deal with these international releases and concerns in order to trust the status of children and to strengthen parents in their role in raising them. At the same time, the Kingdom Hall, the labour market parties and rural society will provide suggestions on how to coordinate work and family responsibilities and service to children's families. In particular, it will be considered to ensure that companies set up family policy, make time for work more flexible and how parents can better care for their children, e.g. because of their illness or disability. In order to ensure the benefit and rights of children and young people to be most effective at implementing specific tasks on the basis of the Council. Projects shall be funded and guaranteed if there are sufficient resources and necessary data to achieve target. The project will be regularly evaluated and based specifically on measures as detailed in seven chapters of the proposal. Things that improve child - rearing, child - care activities, child - care activities, young people and parents, and child training support, general prevention measures, child - related activities, mental disorders, and childhood disorders, and long - suffering from chronic childhood disorders, behavioral and substance problems. Children and young people are protected from domestic violence and sexual abuse and actions in behalf of immigrants'children. In all, they are listed as 49 joints, and it is far too much to go over here, but my hope is that. The welfare committee reviews the matter well, calls for reviews, acts on the commission, and prepares the proposal for future applications. and a vote at the council. The proposal must not be made by a committee of salts, as is common with proposals from a government stand. That peaceful wish, I'm here to share it with you. the welfare committee that this proposal will be taken to treat and prepare at the council Hall. The proposal article will explain the key elements of the section as follows: 1st At the Kingdom Hall, at the labour market parties, and in rural society, recommendations will be developed to coordinate work and family responsibilities and the activities of children's families. The proposals are expected to be effective, including shorter and flexible working hours and how to ensure that parents can better care for their children because of their illness or disability, as previously said. 2. There will be 12 months of birth delay. 3. The recovery of a child's family will be improved, including by improving child - rearing and by making sure that more families get children's benefits. Students in high school are helped to buy on study records and to obtain lunch, and the availability of all children and young people to improve sports and social activities, especially those with poor financial resources. Correspondence parents will be guaranteed support for further improvement and association with their children. 4. Special attention should be given to the support of immigrant children in the school system and in the medical system. 5. Children and children with behavioural problems, psychiatric disorders and developmental abnormalities will be increased. 6th Immediately, action will be taken to work in the courting lists of children and young people awaiting the diagnosis of the Land Hospital Children's Youth Department and the State Analysis and Advisory Centre. 7. There is an increase in the frequency of treatment outcomes for children with behavioural and substance disorders. 8. Parents should be trained to provide advice and training in parental ability, regardless of their circumstances. 9. There will be widespread protection, such as the health of children and young people in society, including the U.S.A. by improving the exercise and feeding habits of children and young people. 10. Prevention efforts against any kind of violence and neglect will also be intensified and supported by families of young people who are troubled by drug abuse. The section on steps to improve the survival of children requires action specifically aimed at improving the financial resources of families. This section suggests that children's compensations increase and that more families get child support. Based on the development of the child - reform system in other Norwegian states, the status of the members parents will be improved. In addition, students in high school are encouraged to buy books and other study tools and to be paid down lunches. The first step is to make sure that students have half the cost. Finally, the chapter discusses the necessary sources of information to be used in the controlled government work to improve the situation and set limits that indicate when to take action. The section on child - rearing procedures, young people and parents, and the support of parenting, includes the following: Talk about prolongation of birthworm for 12 months and training and parental training for special free courses throughout a country that meets different lifetimes of the child and instruction to parents of children with special needs and long - suffering children. It is suggested that at a Kingdom conference and in rural areas, there will be a discussion on the implementation of such courses. Child - care staff, preschool, elementary school, and high school are equipped to impart knowledge to parents in child care, including advice on child behavioral problems. A child's home will be established, working with the children of parents who are in custody, children who live under domestic violence, and children who have sought international protection. It will also offer child - oriented family counseling. It is also emphasized that the courts and the districts always respect the right of children to express themselves before making decisions about their lives and the leveling of the administrative sector. The section on general prevention measures stresses the well - being of children and young people in society. by improving the physical activity and feeding habits of children and young people and, in particular, the education of obesity and prevention of overweight and improved treatment options. It is important to contribute to the prevention of drug and drug-free environments in children and young people. Young people will be given proper instruction on the effects and consequences of drinking alcohol as well as illegal drugs. They will be provided education in schools on addictive and hazardous drugs, along with the damaging effects of tobacco smoking and the use of electric cigarettes. More and more children and young people suffer from anxiety and distress, and access to psychologists at all school levels is needed to make significant improvements. Special attention will be given to general safety and education in the community regarding mental and social well - being, violence, and neglect. This will be done by focusing on mental status, including mental status. Good leisure activities for all children and wholesome use of leisure time and family association. The availability of all children and young people in sports and social activities is comparable, especially for those who live in a poor financial state. In the section on child - care and adolescent activity with psychiatric disorders and developmental abnormalities and long-term childhood disorders, the priority is to work on the waiting lists of the State's analyses and counselling centres and the Children's Hospital on actions for children and young people with psychiatric disorders and developmental abnormalities. They will be looking for ways to promote specific cooperation between different services and administrative points and to improve the cooperation of all those involved in providing or using this service. On the basis of the assessment of a phase 1 health care programme in children and adolescents with mental and behavioural disorders in different geographical areas, decisions will be made to organise cooperation where the responsibility of the service to its users will be clearly defined. The importance of working on waiting lists through the Children and Youth Department of the Land Hospital, as well as the emphasis on promoting follow-up with children and young people with mental health care and community and school and social services after graduation by the Children's or Youth Department of the Land Hospital. Children with psychiatric and behavioural disorders often require services from a variety of service systems, including both government service and community responsibility. It is important that information flows and increased cooperation exist between these partners in order to achieve unity and to achieve the best results in the services of this group of children and their families. It is important to make practical use of the ways that can advance the analysis, thereby ensuring the services that children and young people are entitled to, at all levels of school, and by social and rural services throughout the country. The chapter on behavioral and drug - related actions in behalf of children and young people presents increased variety and parental assistance and rapid intervention to prevent much illness and even the death of young people who are in this crisis. The chapter on measures to protect children and young people from domestic violence and sexual abuse will discuss actions that will help protect children from such violence, and especially those at high risk, e.g. due to disability, children in institutions or those with a weak social status. Children's protection, police, and health care are especially important as a team involved in the affairs of children who have been exposed to every form of violence. To this end, it is suggested that a central database be established that enables such efforts throughout the country to act quicker and protect children from violence. A good presentation also includes the announcement of those who work with children and the announcement of the public, as well as the ease of anonymous announcements, whether professional or public. It is necessary to ensure that law enforcement also applies to what is taking place on the world scene. The legal evidence regarding the use of safety measures must be considered after the execution of judicial punishments against high-level sexual offenders. It is then assumed that children's activities as a multidisciplinary centre for child abuse up to 18 years will be strengthened, particularly for the reporting of children and treatment of families with every type of violence. The last chapter is on action in behalf of immigrants'children. It suggests that governments, careers, and society all band together to fight prejudice. The lesson also discusses the actions of both general and specific people to ensure that people of foreign lands move here to a country with a warm welcome and easier to participate in Icelandic society as they cultivate their own culture and mother tongue. A hard part of this work is to strengthen the position of the children of immigrants. There the education system plays a key role, especially in Icelandic and maternal education, which is the key of immigrants to active participation in society. Schools need to enable parents of a foreign background to share in the parental activities of schools and must serve specifically in the medical system. Mr. President. This proposal is long, and it's detailed, and it's in many joints, and I can't get over everything in 15 minutes. The proposal is based on a proposal adopted 11 years ago and was prepared at the Department of Social Affairs and brought by the then Social Affairs Minister of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, a further response to concerns and new reports and criticism of the way Iceland treats the children's covenant. Under the suggestion, together with the one standing here, all members of the United States Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u17	A respectable president. I thank you for an extremely extensive and well-sounding proposal. Part of it is the third optional book of the United Nations Children's Convention, which also represents the council as a special council proposal, so if this proposal doesn't cover far enough, because it is very diverse and may be difficult to complete, it will not go through completely, but, of course, I encourage it. The welfare committee finishes, it usually finishes, so we can at least finish that part. That's exactly what I'm here to encourage. the welfare committee to work through this proposal, and to encourage the committees in general to complete a case referred to in turn, from committees to 2 or more. I have witnessed various committee exercises that stop matters in various ways in order to avoid putting things out of the committee. It's work I want to disappear to do. I wanted to have a very brief place to say. A senator and a messenger of this proposal, exactly because this proposal is so intense and is likely to require a very extensive staff of welfare committees and many and varied narratives. I'd like to discuss how we, all members of Congress, can help with the completion of the case, but that we are not constantly in the latter part of our payment on committees calling for new and new references and new visits, etc., which seem to be merely to prevent the release of a committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u18	Mr. President. This suggestion, in which many things are discussed, aims to put together what needs to be done to improve the status of children in this country. Of course, unique matters can be taken out here. There are other teams in there that are either a matter of Congress or I know Congress is on the way, and everything's fine. This is just an attempt to respond to comments from both international reports and committees and the concerns of children's emissaries, and it's taken together as a whole. Of course, members of Congress are working on some elements, but the authority is also doing so. That's all right. But how important it is that a body of Congress responds, especially now when we know that there is much of the child's good condition to clean neglect and poverty. For example, there are waiting lists in mental - health services. Of course, we should put our arms around this and respond. We're here to take care of policy and to bring the Commission's conclusions. Of course, we know that there are too many cases that are placed in a drawer, and members of the council pull them back and forth again in an effort to draw attention to them, and they cannot go on and into the council. I understand that the committees don't have time to work every case, that's the case, but that's too often because there's no political issue to cooperate with. Of course, time should be used to handle matters that are waiting for you. I hope there will be a change in this kind of work from this council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u19	A respectable president. I can wholeheartedly agree with what I am thinking. A senator said. I've seen a solution, a case with a committee party, really being shut up in a committee. When it comes to the point that the reviews have been resolved and the committee is prepared to let it, I think, to the 2nd. At the council, the committee has finished her career. I also have great respect for the fact that there are, of course, very many issues and priorities there, etc. Some matters may not be needed because the writer's report is enough. There should not be any extra visit at a verbal site that does not exist in written reviews. Of course, this can happen in questions back and forth, but written data should be what we base on, including Because committee meetings are not open and people's access to information presented orally on the committee is difficult, they often just get a word out of the way when they get into the Senate hall and get bored with it, that's what the other said, and the other said it. It's a very difficult subject. Today, this is a very important controversy proposal and very well done in that respect. Then I wondered if there's some kind of built-in process in this, e.g. a budget, so I'll come up with this from the Board of Credits.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u20	Mr. President. This proposal assumes that a four-year schedule will be established and set up and the criteria will be set to allow regular evaluations. I think it's very important. Of course, we can produce some beautiful words as we are doing and accept all kinds of policies that are not financed and that are not timed and that are not successful, but we are talking about the affairs of children in Iceland. First, we should not allow ourselves to have a schedule in these areas, so it is very important to set the schedule down. It's very important that she's financial. I haven't calculated how much it costs to improve this position, but it will cost. One suggestion is, for example, That they will set up a new house of children, that will cost them. But it will pay many times. Caring hard for their children is worth all the money in the world. It doesn't matter how you look at it. This suggestion is incorporated into it. We can do better here when it comes to improving children's interests and strengthening their position. Then the question is, how do we work here at the council? Time has a lot to say, and, of course, at times, we're just dealing with technical matters. Often, we are working on a situation that we all agree with, but it can't go on. And we're also in politics. In that case, if the lesser part does not agree on the matter, it may be difficult at times for the greater part to pass through. When we agree, we should settle things that I hope are applicable to this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u21	Mr. President. I want to thank you for this proposal being made. It solves one of the biggest problems when it comes to the well - being of children in Iceland, which is that even though children have rights and have been approved by law, even though they're in U.S. children's law, and they're going to do it in all kinds of regulations and things, it's just not done. Often, the answer is: There is no money for it. But that is not a good answer. I think everyone in this room can say to himself: " Yes, the welfare of children should be above all doubt. ' We're going to be together as a community to have it that way. I know the head of the welfare committee, huh? paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen is very effective when it comes to handling equality when matters go through the committee. So I know that she will make sure that the case is well worked. But it is, as mentioned earlier, a certain danger when politicians get in the way and people are making sure that this or the other person is not approved for this and that, etc. I hope they don't go there, and if they go there they'll find any landings so that the well - being of children is always above doubt, that it's always the foundation. Perhaps the progress of the matter will mean that something in common will be done so that no one can take credit above others. The key point must be that children's well - being has begun beyond doubt. I'd say this proposal is, based on what I know about the situation, the biggest thing you can do in a single leap. We need to set up and have a plan of action on how we're going to introduce these things. I'm a spokesman for children, and I've been doing that for almost a year before Porta party. All members of the Parliament have children's spokesman, and we meet with UNICEF yesterday, who make sure that the main role of the network in Iceland is telling us and the government that the United Nations is legally established by the United Nations Children's Convention. The only thing missing is policy, that the law is actually being carried out. One of the factors that will increase the likelihood of doing so is that the United Nations Convention on Child's Rights will be legalized here. It gives the child a real warrant, if a child's rights are not met, the child can complain to the United Nations, and the United Nations will move on to be activated in a richer way and directed to the government: You have not kept your place. You've agreed to the deal. You've established him. You're not gonna stand up for it. I hope this case is well established. I know that's gonna get it from my cut on the welfare committee, that's all I believe. At any rate, I'm going to be very attentive if you're going to try to stop the matter in a way that's indiscriminately or in a way that can happen in the political state at the council. But I'd like to say, like the traveller of the case, anyway. paritaprevir Odd new G. Harðardóttir daughter: don't let the politicians get in the way. The key theme of our conversations should always be the rights of the child, the well - being of the child must be overcome with doubt. The motion goes a long way in that direction.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u22	President. I'm going to start by saying thank you for your fancy conjugal proposal. She's a big girl, and I care about her approach, which is the way I'm going to say; I'm trying to find an English word for the English word ◯intergrate, by permission of the president, hope it's true. You see, it is so important that there is an overall vision and that the many and varied departments are involved and share in this work because it applies to so many of our society that needs to be examined to ensure the well - being of our children and families and society. I love it so much. I'm going to set out specifically what appeals to me or what speaks to me when talking about the need for counseling in the state and in the company of the labour market and from the local community to shape suggestions on how to coordinate work and family responsibilities and service to family members. How important it is for companies to make family policy, to cut down their hours, and to make their work hours more flexible! We can take this to heart here at the council to consider doing this family - service work because it is not possible to do it. I've spoken a lot about the fact that we have to tailor the work market to the needs of the people, to the needs of families in the country, but not to the opposite. These are the key points I wanted to stress. I also notice that there are many activities that are all very cool; that the birthworm will be extended to 12 months; that is vitally important. But as I have always spoken to them, it is also important for me to consider single parents whose parents are not entitled to as long as two parents. I know how important it is that we try to encourage both parents to share in the training of their children, but we still have to face the fact that sometimes it is just not there and sometimes it may not be desirable. It is only a fact that we must look at when we make those decisions. Perhaps I would like to mention a little because we've been discussing how this is going to be done on the committee and the politicians around it all. The only thing I can picture that might stand in the way of this, and I should have answered why. A senator is concerned, is it not only in the commission work, now I just rolled this up, getting some sort of financial expenditure at the expense of this council-sounding proposal itself, during the operation, or putting this group together and doing this work just so we have some amount of money that we can work on? You see, I can imagine that this could be shot down very easily because it's not expected in financial terms, so it's good to know which amount we're talking about. I agree that this is an enormous task, and we cannot afford it. It is a task we should be able to afford, but it may be important to know the amount of money we are talking about. I can tell you in my place as the head of a welfare committee that it will not be nor will have been a meeting at a welfare committee if there is no government case to resolve. It is of utmost importance to me that we take up the matter of Congress in the administrations of the opposing parties and that they receive good coverage, and we take them out of the committee. Although it is politically difficult for the government groups to vote for them, it is still necessary. At least it'll guide me in my work with this. I'm just looking forward to dealing with this hot case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u23	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. She wondered about a budget, that it is weak that it has not been designed. I think it's a good idea to try to figure out what it takes to make a plan like this. Then each year a reevaluation of financial programs to five years of age, bringing up a new budget every year, so it is easy to deal with the plan and put it into financial planning and then in budgets. If, as the motion assumes, it's a matter of priority, that's all we can afford - it's only a matter of priorities. With this suggestion, we in the United States are saying, "The subject of the children is to be arranged again. "
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u24	I just agree completely with the last speaker, and I don't have much more to say.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u25	Mr. President. ▪ The only thing that really matters is to be kind to children. So said the lead and nesting of Vigdís Grímsdóttir. I think with this council mishap, we're trying to capture some of the core of what we're here for. It's somehow so right. All that really matters is being kind to children. Children are now, and children are the future. The children are our seed, our plants and our fields all over. If we do not cultivate them as we should, if we do not take care of them properly and do not look for them to thrive, then the hope is certain. That's why I was so happy when I was. paritaprevir With that idea in mind, Oddný Harðardóttir first submitted her idea of this synopsis that she recommended today for a series of action plans for the next four years to strengthen the status of children and young people because they are now the time and the future of all of us, they are our flowers and our fields. This synoptic arrangement provides an enormous plan for 49 more developed teams. Some of our joints are so self - said that we can all agree that we are amazed that we are not already in action. Other factors are smaller, not less involved. All of these are of great concern to children, and are to increase equality among children in Iceland, to protect their most important interests, and to provide the protection that we have to protect, both us as individuals, us as parents, but also us as governments. It's under the law that we must protect them. For some reason, it's not a loud group. These are not loud stakeholders, our children. Hence, they often move back in line when it comes to the distribution of funds into certain lawsuits. Money, health, and community support need to be added to our children, and we can do so well. These are 49 points. I'd like to come in a little bit on some of the people I really connect with, especially on account of my former profession as an attorney. Il. chapter 9 discusses the approach of courts and county officials to the affairs of children. In particular, it discusses the importance of a court and administrative office to ensure that a child's right to express himself before making decisions on the matter's matter, whether it is being taken for the first time or when prior decisions about custody, association, or residence should be re-evaluated. This is all a matter, whether it is a conflict between parents or a controversy involving the government, i.e. Child - welfare committees are dealing with parents or parents. There is one very important thing, too, that I would especially like to point out, which is to promote the development of the county sector so that they can better care for their legal obligations on child - care treatments, e.g. Association issues are given special prompt treatment. In these cases, Iceland is in a state of mass mass suicide today. When it was decided to unite the county office throughout the country, e.g. Here in the capital area, the suicide departments would be especially strengthened because there had been a terrible situation before one another. Long painters had gathered up, so that the platform, office, could not perform their legal duties. It was decided to go in particular to promote the incest department so that cases involving custody, legal home, and association of children would be properly treated by the government. As the situation is now, nine law - trained representatives in the county's incest area operate in the capital area, which were eleven before unity. There were four experts in the children's affairs here in the capital area, but there are experts who carry out the legal roles of agreeing between parents in terms of custody, home, and association. It is in the child's law that parents must be treated for this reconciliation because it is considered indiscriminate to the best interests of children that parents try to make an agreement. These four experts handled all these interviews. Their role is also to talk to their children and to examine their viewpoint on the matter. If an agreement cannot be made between the parents, they give out a so - called certificate of reconciliation that must have, you will go to court on the case. If you do not accept them, people must have this proof that they have gone into reconciliation. As mentioned earlier, these experts were on the affairs of four children but are now in the whole country two and a half standards. No contact has been assigned to the county office in the capital area since April, not just one. It's kind of like a situation in there that the staff can't take on any more. What does that mean? That means there are children out there who suffer pain because of this neglect of the government. Children who are not allowed to meet their parents. Children who are not allowed to meet one of their parents. Children who are forbidden to meet the parent who carries custody alone. A lot of these cases that wait to be resolved, just waiting to get this proof, waiting because you can't resolve these issues. Even if I was going to talk about this point, we'd have to do something about it. I'd also like to draw special attention to 2 parts of II. section of the non-employment and parental training programme. It is something we should not get used to. We take all kinds of obedient studies with our pets. The dog owners go to great lengths to learn how to get a dog to walk together with their owner and spend weeks on all kinds of courses in order to get dogs to stop being loud, but nobody asks whether we can train our children in good ways. I also think it is very important that it is free of charge, of course, for us to seek help before it is too late, and that it has some kind of system that especially concerns young parents or parents who are having their first child. We need not just take courses to learn how to bring our children into the world; we need to learn how to think about them after they have arrived. So I'm delighted to hear this law very much. Finally, I rejoice greatly at the suggestion that we can also see in II. section, very interested in me, that there will be a special children's house that works with parents who are in custody, who suffer from domestic violence, or who seek international protection, as well as with child - oriented family advice. This point is of vital importance. Although children who have been involved in domestic violence are actually not recognized in Iceland as being custodyally brutal. This may include domestic violence and a bitter reaction to children, who are experiencing intense stress in a chronic ahead of time. This too is vital. I'd like to thank the author very much for putting this in as well. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u26	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A merchant for a fine speech earlier and I think all of the members of the United States Congress are here to present this matter. I think it's being touched by some very important factors. Actually, there is one suggestion that many very important factors can be guided by governments regarding how to bring children into general affairs. I think it's very important. Transporters naturally know that some of these matters are currently being developed by governments and some of the issues have been made. But I feel that the spirit in the motion is a little lacking in overall vision. This may well be the thought expressed in the very new title. The minister of social and equal rights should somehow capture the vision the Ministry is about to display, that's fine, if that's the case. But here we can say that clocks are almost all the factors, so to speak, that need to be under there. I think it's very good. There are some things I wonder about. This is to form a section 7 of chapter II about the baby house. I wondered if such a house or business could be in cooperation with the existing children's house or if it would have to be completely separated. There's a cheeky one. I also wondered, with the help of the mental - health professionals of children and young people, especially the 3 - and 4 teams who are going directly to the National Hospital of University, whether the social minister is necessarily the one to hold on to it. Perhaps we should get an agent of the children all the threads to hold on to and to be the big co-star. If that were to happen, it would have to be brought about significantly. I've watched the discussion very carefully, and for example, some members of the council have come up with an impression that all of this is going to cost money and so on. Of course, it is true, but society already spends a considerable amount of money to support children and children's families, perhaps more than the other administrative level, i.e. The rural communities, with a large number of rural communities running up to 3/4 of all the municipal resources in the middle school and elementary school business. Thus, money is used wisely, but it is missing, as I understand the spirit of the proposal, coordination, and perspective. I'm not going to extend the discussion at all. I can't wait to handle the situation. A welfare committee and, like the Chairman of the Committee, why. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen, said before, we will be very careful about it and try to finish it and put it through the committee. This is a brilliant and vital and important subject and must be shown by the council to be willing to handle the affairs of children with authority.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u27	Mr. President. I just want to thank you very quickly for this fine discussion. The proposal is that the Ministry, which has something to do with children's affairs and their local representatives, will settle down and work this program; that people of the council work the plan, of course, but each Ministry will take care of its own. The danger is, and unfortunately, there are several severe cases of child activity somehow between the administrative regimes. The state says that the community should handle this, and the communities say it's up to the state to handle it, so it's so important that the rural communities are involved in this strategy. I look forward to having the proposal back in to the second. and for a vote. I hope this council will serve her. I wish. The welfare committee of all the best for that work. - Thanks for the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u28	Mr. President. I recommend a bill to correct any change in various laws to allow the registration of children by both parents. That bill is the one standing here along with another. Residents, Valdimarsson, the Þorgerður of K. Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, and Þorsteinn Víglundsson. Iceland is on the lead when it comes to issues relating to equality between the sexes. There is good reason for us to be proud of that situation. By the turn of the century, e.g. established a code on maternity that guaranteed both parents the right to such a holiday. Besides the predictable positive effect on the labour market, the law plays a key role in ensuring infants important time with both parents. It is important that we always go further, be critical of the situation in which we are in each situation, and see what we can do better. The objective of the bill is to ensure the right parents who do not live together to make significant decisions about their child's day - to - day life as well as the right of children to have full participation and the involvement of both parents in their daily lives. Clearly, though, things have moved better in recent years, there is still a few common differences between parents with common resources. Children's Laws, No. 76/2003, as it is stated, by permission of the president, a lawhouse manager has a right to make decisive decisions on the child's daily life, such as where the child should live in the country, about choice of preschool, elementary school and daily care, usually or necessary health care and regular activities. Despite the collective idealism of parents who seek to agree on that matter, such a contrast exists between a situation and a child's right to the full involvement of both parents in their lives. Furthermore, a law - abiding parent has the right to provide a wide variety of financial support beyond a parent who does not share his child's legal home despite sharing custody. Since I recommend a bill of twice the legal home of children, it is time to review its history at the General Assembly. First only on the statistics. According to figures derived from Iceland's Habitat of 2015, in fact, over 13,000 families were listed by single parent, according to the Habitat definition, i.e. So - called nuclear families, where either a mother or a father lives with her children but is not living together. It was in 1992 that a common view was defined by law and gave them parents who could discern the possibility of having a common custody for the first time. One year later, 10% of parents wrote this in a divorce process. In 1996 it was 35%, and by the turn of the century, it had reached a 50% share. In 2011, 90% of divorced parents or parents in a divorce process were produced in a shared custody process. In 2011, the mother had 91% of the cases that her parents agreed on as a joint guardian. But back to the process. It was the spring of 2014 that Birt's eulogy proposal for children living in two households was adopted in the General Assembly. According to the proposal, the Minister of the Interior was assigned to appoint a group of men who would submit proposals for the development of equal production of children who live with both parents. The objective of the work force was to find ways to eliminate the vast difference between the parent's legal home and the parent's guardian so that parents share the custody. The group was to decide whether to adopt a system that authorized double a home or some other arrangement of the same estate that could be more suitable for some reason. As it goes and it happens, the bright future changed from the first. until final version. Initially, the proposal was made that a bill on the matter would be submitted at the spring Summit 2015, which was adopted and approved by the case of Congress and no bill has yet been established at the time of the end. But the staff were appointed as the proposal and returned a large report submitted to the Council of 145th, i.e. Three years ago. There are many good things to be found. The bill presented here suggests changes in child law, law on law and residence, income tax laws, social assistance laws, community service laws, law on services to disabled persons with long - term needs, and finally law on elementary school. I will briefly review these changes and support for them. In chapter I of the bill, a change in child law is recommended. It gives the authority of parents who do not live together but have a collective reserve to register the child's legal home with both parents, and it has the equal authority to make the important decisions about the child's day of life mentioned earlier, such as where he should have a legal home in his country, about choice of nursery, elementary school and daily care, usually as well as necessary health care and regular activities. Well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well. Well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well. But as is stated in the law, parents who share custody with a child, although in all cases endeavor to consult before deciding what to do. Then it is suggested in the bill to select parents with a collective preview to record a child's legal home for both parent parents to fail the cohesion of cohesion. Mr. President. If this bill is legal, it is clear that there is a need for law-enforcement change, but the definition of a law enforcement center is in accordance with the law of a place where a person has a regular residence. It also says, again with President's permission: ▪ A fixed home refers to a place where a person has his base, usually stays in leisure activities, has his family records, and is at home when he is not away temporarily for study, holiday, working trips, illness, or other similar events. Mr. President. If children share as much time in each parent's home, there will be room and room, toys, clothing, and clothing for about half a month. calling their home, is hard to see that it does not match the definition of a lawhouse. Also, it is not acceptable to answer that the change is systematicly too complex because once our community has developed so that parents who do not live together make a more common choice of having a mutual advantage to see that it is in their child's best interests, the system is to deal with it. So we make adjustments in the law of law in II. section of the bill for children to be able to do what has been described as a legal home for both parents. Recently, a young father received a letter from a governor who, by permission of a president, said: They are considered to be single parents, who have their children and care for theirs alone at the end of the income year. The payer is not improving in this regard. According to national records, the child resides with his mother and therefore counts as caring for the development of the child. Thus, you will not be considered a single parent and thus do not have the right to produce children. Hence, the marked meaning of your figures in the box "A Single Parent " is not taken into account, and the name of your child has been crossed out of your tax returns. This particular father is like many other parents in dividing all expenses with the parent. His child has two homes, two rooms, and two parents, but under the Kingdom, the mother is the only one who cares for the baby and thus receives child support rather than the father. This is a clear example of parents who want their child to spend as much time with both parents as they both take on financial responsibility and responsibility for raising children. If parents divide the child's expenses, they have the right to divide his or her benefits. If the child lives in two places, it is proper to record this in a national file. Thus, transporters suggest the following change in III. section of the bill for the change in income tax law, and the addition is two, one on the other: If a child has twice the legal home under law on law, and if he divides the household of both guardians over the income year, both parents are considered to be the parents of the child and should calculate half of the children's improvement to each parent's prefect. The other change: If a child has double legal home, the income of another parent's premeditated income should not reduce the money - related child benefits that a child pays for the other parent. IV. The bill says that changes in social help laws are required. It says in the new proverb: For both parents who otherwise meet the requirements of these laws, children may pay half of their mother and father's pay. And also another addition: For the children of two candidates, each with their own legal home, and the children's law, it is permitted to pay half of the care fees for each of them. Chapter V of the bill speaks of a change in local social services law that says in a new paragraph: ▪ If a child has a registered legal home for both parents who live each member of their community, he or she should have the right to serve or to help in both rural areas if the conditions of these laws are otherwise met. Finally, Vi. section on changing laws about services to disabled persons with long - term needs, in a new paragraph: ▪ Recording of a child's legal home for both parents who live in their rural society, however, does not limit its right to service on the basis of these laws. It is interesting to consider the arrangements for care that meet with financial assistance to those who are disabled and long - suffering. It allows a insurance agency to provide care for disabled and long - suffering children who stay in a home or in a hospital or who participate in increased medical expenses if the child's mental or physical restrictions bring careful expenses and special care or care. It is also permitted to provide assistance to the candidates of a child with severe developmental abnormalities and children with behavioural problems. However, the concept of a candidate is not defined by law or by the Regulation and therefore defined as a legal guardian by a insurance agency. With a change of law, it should be clear that if there are twice the legal home, the payment will be divided into two parts. Finally, transporters suggest changes in elementary school law, as per VII. section of the bill. It suggests that a new paragraph is added as follows: If a child has a registered legal home for both parents who live in their own community, the parent should decide which partner the child should attend and report it to the local administrations of both parties. The decision remains valid until another such decision has been made by both parents. It is simply stated that parents must choose the rural society they choose for their child, so there is no great change, except that it is a decision that is on both parents'hands and not just at one. Mr. President. Each year, between 2006 and2010, 550,600 children experienced legal separation from their parents. There is no evidence that these numbers have fallen. The Haggis of Iceland then estimate that less than 36% of marriages end in divorce. Viewed as a principle for common custody, there is a principle that Icelandic law and that it is generally sought to level the right parents'rights, however, there is no question that one parent is granted considerable rights beyond the other on the basis of the registration of a child's legal home. According to the movers, the bill is designed to have a positive effect on the number of children who have parents who choose not to live together but who raise their children together under common custody. I've completed my tour for now and wish that the case should be referred to a Congress Committee of General Education and Education after the conference.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u29	A respectable president. I appreciate her manager's case. I think we all know who are here in the audience - although not many of us - are examples of a case that this bill is designed to be; example where the system stands in the way of normal parental relations after divorce; an example that obviously lacks some sort of fairness in how to handle matters, whether it is the intervention of a vacation card or a recording of leisure time or the inclusion of children's reforms or what else is the seven law columns that are discussed here. We discussed this on the General and Education Committee this spring when there was a bill on law and residence. There, in particular, we tried to control this double legal registration on all these terms. An executive does not mention a country where sweat bulbs raised people in the plots because the project is complicated. They said this work was going on between the Justice and Transport and the State Department, if I remember correctly. So I wondered, " Is this work really something to be done? Is it possible for me to be at ease with this seventh chapter of Congress or whether we should, what should we say, take special precautions, and wait for the Ministry to do what he does? '
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u30	Thank you. A senator is a great man for the counter-sponsored. It's natural to be absolutely accurate. The matter was considered, and much work was put into it. Then came the labor sickness, and the baby born, the conclusion that the change would be made that a couple would be allowed to register in separate homes. I do not belittle the fact that it is probably convenient for a number of people if that is the case, but it is quite clear that the interests of others are considerably higher and weighing more on this matter. That's why I think, after this discussion that was given at the Ministry, in the system - and the results became this, and it's complicated, I'm totally ready for it. I believe, however, that the motivation to climb his sleeves and go on this will be clearly greater if the lawgiver has clearly explained what he wants to do in this matter. Again, I reiterate what I said earlier: This has not been a simple development for people who understand, and it is impossible to watch these numbers, that 90% of those who understand choose to go this way, to try to raise their children in this way, and then this system stops somehow because we have built walls that are somehow difficult and potentially costly to break down. I'd encourage us to keep driving this case. There may well be some very good tips from those who have done the job, some changes. But I don't think there's any reason to wait for the lawgiver to get together on this subject, say what he thinks, and thus become a guide for the system.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u31	A respectable president. Hv. A senator wants the lawgiver to make clear what he wants. So I can wholeheartedly agree. You see, on June 7, this year's committee appeared with a revised proposal for a law-or-law bill and a residence from a General and Education Committee, including I sat with an agent at the exorbitant. There we discussed a double legal registration of children. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ The Ministry of Justice has a view of children's farms, and it is scheduled to provide a bill for a change in various laws. So, with permission, we dump on the Committee with these words: ▪ The Commission accepts the importance of this arrangement and emphasizes that the Ministry hastens that work whenever possible. Here, the lawgiver said quite clearly what he wanted. It's been a summer break, and I just want to ask you, how much time would the Ministry have to rush our jobs if we're already in the first few weeks, after the Relation agent and the rest of us accepted this opinion, start putting in an independent prime report about what we were urging the Ministry to do here a few minutes ago?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u32	This is a good question, and the answer is just that: I think and we, when we put out this bill, feel that there's more reason and there's a lot of evidence in the way of this bill that's approved than that it's done and the system, the government, who's looking at this second mission. I realize that this was the conclusion of this committee this spring. Now we're going to put up this bill because we want to speed it up. There's evidence to this. It is of course, and of course it will happen with this, as it does with other people when they receive their church treatment, that there is evidence in them, we will listen to them. But this is it. We want to get it through. We want it in the law. We carefully checked the report of the service group I mentioned earlier, and we passed through the work that was performed during the month before the law was adopted at the beginning of June. It is available for the information needed. It's just a matter of doing the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u33	A respectable president. Then I'd like to start by congratulating you on being ahead of the Ministry of Justice to present this bill. I heard a story why. A senator of the young man who tried to make equal financial contributions to his mother and who will not get pedophiles; this 50 - half - change they try not to go because the system says no. I'm very interested in identifying and experimenting with the systems and underlying parameters that affect how the system works. Something that doesn't seem very obvious, if you change it, it'll have a huge impact on a number of other things that you might not have suspected would have mattered. The failure of the individual to receive child support related to the non-maternal support in a number of cases - perhaps not being the same, but in a number of others where coherence is often not accompanied by a replacement of children - it has an indirect effect on how pay, and in particular the gender's salary, have developed. Since, in view of these figures that were discussed here, men are in a smaller part of law-care parents, who have to pay support and in this way are equal wages, with less pay, if they pushed their pay higher than normal, i.e. if the underlying system defect was not present. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's a very open cheek. But I find this interesting from that, i.e. so little can have an effect on a larger context.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u34	Thank you. For a senator, it is good to know that you can always rely on an enjoyable greeting when discussing a matter here in the conference hall with him. Only in happiness and in connection with it as well. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson came in earlier - that's exactly what it is, there's nothing on the Ministry's work, but we have it right here in our hands. There's a difference, a fundamental difference. This consideration of the effect on the sex pay is a little bit fun - you can think of whether this is one of the things that are negligible, but all of us know him as a family. - Right on. [[Up front.]] Very interesting. I don't really have any more words on this. This is a pleasant reflection. Let's hope the discussion is only on those lines in the commission work. It's fun. It's coming into a situation that we're all in, I think, really into.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u35	A respectable president. I would like to welcome a forward bill and declare my support to it with a small notice that I have not fully resented it, ending a rather complex matter, as has been shown in a recent report and in the general discussion. In itself, I don't have much more to say about the case, but I'm sure it's coming to a committee, a General Education and Education Committee, where we're going to take a look at it. But I wanted to draw attention to this, because I know I'll be asked by someone else, that I sent in an inquiry at the time to the social and equal minister in connection with the results of a service group in a report prepared for Minister of Internal Affairs in 2015 on the same topic. In fact, I received an answer from which I was directed to the minister of Justice, but the answer came, and the conclusion was that a projection on the bill might begin in February, this year. Then came the 149th Council, where we are now, and then I sent back an inquiry to the Minister of Justice about the beginning of the bill and when a minister would likely be prepared for contributions. I also asked if any new opinion cases had arisen, likely to delay the production of the bill, and if so, what opinion it was. The answer to that inquiry has not been received, but it may be expected that a minister will not submit a bill because the Council has already done what I celebrate. I would have gladly liked to be a associate of the case, with an amateur on the subject, but, of course, I rejoice whenever members of the council show the initiative shown here. I also like that we remind ourselves of the reasons why ministers don't have to do everything. I thought about writing one of these bill myself. It is the idea, on the other hand, to put simply two lawhouses into a book that has proved extremely complicated, and to go to all these legal updates, which I examined at the time and had actually opened a penance and thought to me that perhaps it would be better to wait for a minister to get him to do this. But now, we've put up a bill, and I think it may remind us that we don't always have to rely on a minister to do things. It is important that the Council itself and the minor members of Congress bring in the basics and are taken as seriously as the national primes when discussing issues such as this. As far as I'm concerned with the handling of the case, I expect to be successful at the council, considering that a minister has said that he is going to present comparable issues and, in the light of the seeming agreement, the matter needs to be done. So I expect and expect to do so. The General and Education Committee that the matter will not be tolerated for being put ahead of ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u36	A respectable president. To continue with this discussion about the Ministry of Justice being also involved in this case, this case will never delay that job. If something is, it should really help just to see that the council has already begun and that they are given some comments on the matter. It may be arranged in such a way that only everything will be ready for these adjustments to take effect when the council is finished and everything is going to be all right in this regard. Then I'd like to get more involved and talk only about it from the perspective of data and databases. This is when it all comes down to the entire database, documenting a child on two parties in a national file, i.e. that it appears in two places. You've heard it's complicated, but there's absolutely nothing technical about it. What follows, however, is that this registration has an impact at the insurance agency and elsewhere, on child reforms and housing support and I don't know what and what, where this change and registration are concerned. But technically, the log should not take long, and should not be a complex task if you process a data structure to begin with. I reject the tiny theory that this is complicated because there is nothing very difficult to add to the data taking into account the proportion of legal registration, which simply fits into the calculations available. Then all you have to do is figure out if the parent and the child are taken as a law - to - house share with that parent. Rather than be concerned that this will cause some special headache in the system, I believe the headache is in the beginning, that we are not working in a data drive. We use an older system or older network of data, but we usually use it today. That's why it's so complicated. As a result, regardless of this case, I feel that the council should be highly welcomed by all proposals to update the Commission's information structure. Well, it's about time. If they were all right the way they started, Iceland was very well introduced to information technology in front of it, but has fallen very much in recent years for this, if we were in place with the Commission's information technology, recruitment and institutions, it would not be difficult to introduce these laws into the system. It is an interesting bait at the process that makes this threshold that such obvious rights cannot be accomplished because we have not spent enough time building up the government's information technology system. If I agree that this bill makes a good flight through the council, I hope we take pride in putting our information technology, databases, etc. to the right place, to the gain. It would, for example. Helps very much with all the queries I send in, it would be much quicker to answer all the queries. I could even look up the answers much more myself. It would save a whole bunch of fucking things, too, sorry about the language.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u37	A respectable president. Times have changed, and they are changing. Standard sex roles are rapidly evading, and people are becoming more and more free to decide for themselves what kind of life they really want to live. Change in family patterns is one of the factors involved. It's not been years since women started making beds with the workforce. There are still fewer years when men began to demand that it be recognized as important and suitable caregivers and inventors. Today we deal with one benefit of that fight. More and more fathers allow themselves to enjoy to the full being of fathers and exposés, and more and more mothers agree in such cases that the father is a similar important part of the child's life. People can understand at any time of their lives, but they can grow in the fact that parents gather for the common care of their children. In common view, the responsibility for raising a child involves not just the shoulders of a parent but the differences between the two. Today, many children live in two households. They have their beds, their space, their rooms, their wardrobe, both places. So one of the homes is not just the home of the child, it is also the home of the child. When this is true of the management board, it is not to reject the ideal because it is too complicated to change, that the database is too old to accept such a change. Like what? A senator went over the past is not even so complicated in solving this problem, and it can be solved by some easy transition. Children's legal home has meaning for their parents'right to the public support of their children. When parents share responsibility for their children, both of them are to have the right to such support according to income. The same applies to your child's decision. Who is fair that the law - abiding parent has increased power, and in some cases absolute authority, to resign or to the child himself is equal to both parents? Parents who are in a position to share custody and responsibility with their child should be able to make decisions about the child together. Not only is this reasonable but we must also look to the human factor. It's hard to separate, it's hard to end a relationship, and then stay separate, and it's not usually done completely well. Just that parents are increasingly putting their own interests and feelings aside in order to care for their child's interests and to allow them to enjoy as much a good relationship as possible with the other parent is not just a positive development but simply wonderful one. But the factor that a child can have only one household is not designed to make it easier for parents to make that journey easier. As I said earlier, only one parent has the right to public support and can demand further support from the other person and then have the ultimatum of decision making. The presence of such a power imbalance does not make it easy for another desirable arrangement, does not increase the possibility of maintaining the arrangement, and also slows down the development that we consider to be very positive. Let us not forget, too, that children, first of all, are very sensitive, and second, we are not exactly Oscars. It is difficult to hide differences between parents from their children. They feel it, and that makes them feel bad. The role of the administration is not to make it harder for parents to communicate. As long as we can help, we should, whether it's a bill or a bill that comes directly from the Ministry. This is a matter of righteousness, and this is the future, why. Senators. Today, the lawgiver is faced with a choice as to whether we will continue to be rocked in the shoes of those who are trying to follow a new path or help with new emphasis and social change. Finally, I'd like to say that I hope that a body of Congress can see its advantage in bringing this matter forward and not allow politics to stand in the way of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u38	A respectable president. I'm gonna start by thanking you. So we have an opportunity to talk about the importance of children's rights. Then, with the permission of the president, I'm going to read here a sentence from the report that says the law should not give one parent a richer right than the other to make decisions about the child's interests. The lawgiver is not to prevent parents in this position from raising their children with legal rights as much as parents are married or married. That's what I'm saying. In fact, I have sometimes wondered that when the lawgiver made a decision at the time, there was something that would have been a common custody of people whether they were just going to do it. Because I have to admit that I know people who have common custody and who say honestly to me, excuse me, Mr President, that it's just a fart, it's just bullshit. It's nothing, because it just counts where the baby is registered in a home. As a result, it is very important that we discuss these matters. Hv. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson came in handy and said that it was recently discussed. A top-of-the-art Board of Education. There is a report to the council following a judicial hearing that will address this matter. I have to admit that this report was submitted before I started here, so I haven't read it yet but I've managed to slide over it. I think it's clear that there's something important to do. Many of us here have also come to realize that the matter is complicated. It has been shown in all reviews, and it may also be shown on this bill that this is making some changes in a number of songs. And I'm also afraid that the change this will require will require changes in even more laws. In fact, I think there is some way in the report that there are still other laws to review. I've thought about that too, maybe like what happened. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson came on only with regard to databases and technology, whether a national file had a perfect database would solve at least much of the problems that exist on the table today. I have heard such an example from my good friend, but she had to go to the county to get proof that this was definitely her child to take the child to a bank to start a bank account for her teenager. Understandably, this woman felt that it was such humiliation to have to go to some government agency for proof that this was her child, and then take him to the bank. One could see that this would be solved if there were some fields in the computer system where two parents were told to have custody of the child regardless of the legal home. I wanted to roll it up in the discussion. In some cases, I think the problem is not necessarily that the law is wrong but that there is some systematic error in society, such as to form at the banks that require such a thing, and that the real guardians of the child cannot be mentioned. Another example I've heard is, for example, Insurance companies who refuse to include a child in domestic insurance because it is not registered in a legal home, although it is clear that custody is common and that the child shares two households. The most crazy thing was when I heard an example of a governor, I think it was, sending a letter into the child's foster parent's home, and the baby itself because the baby wasn't even 18 years old, of course, but not the baby's mother. The reason is that the head of the tax is always sending letters to the older taxpayer. In this case, it was not the mother of the child who received information that touched her child but that of a local resident. Which is naturally totally crazy. I'm glad this bill has been released, but I'm afraid there's very much complications. I also rely on the work that is taking place in the Ministry on this exact case because I hear the talks being delivered here and what I've heard in the Senate that most people agree that the most important need to improve the child's rights, that's what it's all about. Then I'd also like to assume that I have the privilege of representing children here at the council and remembering that we had a meeting with UNICEF and other members where we discussed the rights of children and interests. Then there was one suggestion: What makes everything complicated is when you discuss the rights of children and connect it to the financial supply of parents. Maybe our system is just so that it has to be, I don't know, but we do it clearly when we think of righting children's reforms and the like. But I've often wondered about this after they made these comments, " Is there any way we can set children's rights, regardless of some financial connection into the system? ' These fine people, and there were also representatives from a businessman who had experience in terms of reconciliation and other matters, all of these said financial matters were complicated. But I agree with what others have said, and I think it will be good to discuss it here, and it's a good thing to get some reviews. I also eagerly await the work of the Ministry on these matters. I also have to admit that as an ex-communicator, I see a wide range of complexities involved in a double legal registration. I fear to form one of the major subjects, such as those who are disabled. Can there be a difference between local members of the community as to whether the community should serve a disabled child if it is registered in a lawhouse in two places? We can take sports and leisure strength, school and other things. I think there's some complications. But what we really need to watch is the child's right and that both parents have the right to make decisions about the child's interests, whether starting to record double law home or changing the system somehow, so that parents with a common reserve actually share custody and common rights when it comes to the child's best interests.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you so much for the discussion that has been here on this topic. I'm just gonna keep this brief, and I'm just gonna go the wrong way, and I'm gonna take it for the first time. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir wondered about the misunderstanding, that's absolutely correct. Hv. A member of the council mentioned the misunderstanding of rural communities in which a disabled child enjoys such services and chooses them, if this works out, and parents can register the child with two children in two rural communities. I don't think it's an extra misunderstanding. I kind of think it's moving it from parents to the country society. That's how I feel it should be. Being a divorced parent, sharing the forebearance of a disabled child, where the law - abiding parent has rights and doesn't, that's a real complication. We're solving it with this. I'm not beinglittled that it's a complication level for the system, I totally agree with that. I think that's where we should just sort things out. And I believe it, and I look forward to seeing the reviews of these exact matters. I'd like to take better answers from what's happened. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson, for he referred to the job since last spring. I examined the Constitution of the Government, the Minister of Justice, which includes a bill for a legal adjustment of child law and other laws (stabble children). This is something that we plan to contribute after a year's convention, in February. On this point it says: The bill suggests that parental authority be established in order to negotiate a change in the child's farm and adjustments to arrangements for the child's implementation and payment. It's connected. It is similar in some respects. It's a long way from being the same thing. It is absolutely crazy if people believe that a world of Congress does not have the ability to bring in the prosthetics and talk about them and preferably get them through because perhaps, possibly, if that is the case, they should do something similar in their plots. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u40	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a synonym regarding the resignation of a tax agreement on agricultural products to the European Union. Artists are down. paritaprevir Árnadóttir Kolbrún Ánnadóttir, Bergþór Ólason, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson of Sjönn, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, Jónsson, and Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson. Therefore, there are members of the Central Party who recommend this proposal. The suggestion reads: The Council concluded to hide a foreign minister's agreement with the European Union on agricultural products from 2015 due to the smiles of forecasts and the lack of assessment of the impact of the contract on domestic agricultural production. The report goes into effect no later than six months after the approved conclusion. This proposal was previously submitted to a 148th legislature but was not granted. She's been remanded mostly unchanged. Mr. President. The Icelandic government signed a customs agreement with the European Union (EU) for agricultural products in the fall of 2015. The contract went into effect May 1st, and the Treaty took over a customs agreement made at the European Union in 2007. This deal is against Iceland. It is to present to the European Union the same possibilities to all European farmers. I'm afraid that doesn't make the deal. I'll take into account a few things I think to make it clear that it was not too well with the Iceland Convention and how unfortunate the deal is in Iceland. First of all, the deal doesn't reflect the size of markets. In the European Union, the market is estimated to be some 500 million people, but the market in Iceland is only about 350 thousand. The contract was not taken into account as if it had been natural to do and to conform to a good deal of agreements. All general fairness guidelines recommend that these contracts take into account the size of markets. It was, for example. conducted in 1995 agreements on agricultural products by the World Trade Agency. It's basic to make a contract that both parties can cooperate. It's not for this deal. Take, for example, the import of cheeses. The European Union is able to move to Iceland totollfree 610 tons of cheese, while Iceland is only about 50 tons in the European Union. The EU will move to Iceland 230 tons of special cheese. This amount will be fully introduced into Icelandic markets in two years, with a unique market of some 240 tons in Iceland. These 240 tons are produced in Burgundy Valley, where 25 people work in this special model. Everyone sees that there's no room for import in an additional 230 tons from the European Union into our small market. Thus, the contract is a very narrow position where Icelandic speciality is put. The contract has no record of exporting Icelandic specialized into the European market. The European Union's cheese import to Iceland in this contract accounts for about 123/45% of the market in Iceland. That refers to the general cheese and the speciality. Our export to the European Union is a fragment of the markets there. Everyone sees it's a terrible imbalance. Under this rule, the National Convention Committee of Iceland wrote and this has been the highest. Agricultural minister called an opportunity for Icelandic agriculture. Mr. President. I call it making a deal. Second, I would like to mention specifically that no assessment of the impact of the contract on domestic agricultural production was made. There's a lot of trouble with this deal, and it's really amazing that it hasn't been done. In international negotiation techniques, it is fundamental to have broad and good consultation with stakeholders. The European Union had regular consultations with its stakeholders in this contract. That's why I have a reliable source. The Icelandic Convention Committee did not know how the contract would affect Icelandic agricultural production when it signed. In addition, there was little or nothing in Iceland's treaties with farmers' interest groups. That's a hell of a shame. Third, this change has occurred after the contract was signed to our largest and best market, Britain, is leaving the European Union as it is known and hence from this toll agreement. That'll be about my next year. Britain's market is the second largest market in the European Union with 66 million people. Perfect uncertainty about the effect this will have on us. This week when the Committee visited Iceland, the World Bank Commission specifically made this statement its subject. She stressed that one of Iceland's most important exports was threatened by Britain's exits. These are big words that we must take seriously, and that is certainly true in this contract. Let us not forget that our crash at the customs agreement, which is actually nice, and that may be the best part of this contract, is more than 3,600 tons. He was thinking about Britain's market. We don't know what's going to happen to him. If Britain is to be removed from the European Union in the middle of the next year, it is quite clear that we will not be exported to it on the basis of this agreement. This is likely to require special negotiations with Britain, which could take some years. At the same time, the loss of thesterling sludge has been about 30 to 35% since the contract was made. These factors play a major role in Iceland's export efforts to the United Kingdom and can clearly be said to be a failure. This must be recognized and responded appropriately by the government. It is perfectly normal to resign and renegotiate when such rich conditions are no longer present. Mr. President. The Tolla Convention on the European Union puts domestic farming in a very difficult position. It is only natural to ask which counter measures will the government take during the contract. In a special discussion of the customs contract held here by the Central Party last assembly, I asked the highest. Agricultural minister on the impact of the Convention on Icelandic agricultural production. During his discussion, the minister explained that he was working on counter measures. However, he could not answer the question of their actions. In recent discussions at the council about the government's budget bill before 2019, I asked the highest. Agricultural minister of what money would be spent on counter measures for the tax agreement. The answer was short: There is no money to be used for earmarked objections. This is despite the recommendation of agrienvironmental group. It is evident, therefore, that the words of a secretary on the aid of farmers due to the negative impact of the customs agreement on domestic agricultural products were, unfortunately, empty. A panel has concluded that the contract is to be dismissed. Farmers are very unhappy with the contract, and they are deeply concerned about it. The effects that divide billions of jobs and can take on many farm jobs. Mr. President. I see no evidence against breaking up this contract, and the subsequent request for a new toll agreement for the changed endpoints will be made by the European Union. I am convinced that the European Union will show this understanding. It is simply that way, especially in the light of Bgreit. To this point, I refer the case to a second discussion and why. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u41	A respectable president. We've been listening to history here with a synonym for the resolution of a customs agreement with the European Union. I'm going to say that I think the bleeding over this proposal is an extremely opportunism, so I'm just saying it out in this chair. So, in my previous answer to the proposal's executive, I would like to ask him if it's not right to be his co-sponsor, huh? paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, former minister of foreign affairs, has made this contract in the government of the former prime minister, Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunugsson. What is this opportunity?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u42	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I think it's amazing by then. A senator who's a good farmer and a good farmer. A member of the council, that he should refer to it as an opportunism to try to respond to the smiling reasons in this matter. Hv. A senator well knows that we are looking forward to the largest market in this contract. That's perfectly normal. A senator, for example, that in such situations people react, sit down with the person you negotiate with, seeking ways to correct these adjusted criteria that strongly affect us. Hv. A senator named here the leader of this deal. He probably knows him better than I do, but he's not the main thing in this case, by no means. I know why. A senator sees this and understands that it is absolutely necessary to review this matter again. The farm organization, a farm organization, has proposed a resolution of this agreement. There's no opportunism. A senator must realize that. We are simply responding to new situations with the whole interest of farmers, the interests of farming people, the people working in agriculture, to guide them. And Iceland's interests, because this is the big market area where we have to react.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u43	A respectable president. Thank you. The first answer is a pilot. I keep a material discussion about this proposal until I get to talk about it here; I'm going to participate in those discussions. Materially, however, the suggestion also says that treaties were not made, the effect they have. I'm also asking why. A member of Parliament: What responsibility would such a dramatic diagnosis have been involved? I agree that it was meant to be done to her. It wasn't made. But who now would be responsible? Perhaps those who made this contract, a respectable senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u44	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. There is no point in pointing out who was to do things or who was not to do them. The facts of the matter have not been determined how this contract would affect Icelandic agriculture, Icelandic agricultural production. I mentioned the opposite procedures here. V.E.G. During the last session of this contract, a agricultural minister says that he is working on counter measures. Then I ask him here, as I said in my speech in connection with the budget talk, what money was spent on these counter measures, and the answer is not to anyone. That's just the way it is. Aggressor has not kept a good impression on this matter. It must be his responsibility when he says that he invites counter measures, that he provides funds for them. To perform counter measures is vital. We're looking at the possible loss of the EU's special production and a total of 22◯25 jobs in the valley region, the Mecca of the EU's most efficient industry and the largest workplace in the United States. To me, there is no way to point out who was to do what, like what. A senator rightly mentioned earlier. It's just about dealing with the situation so it won't be too late and it'll be harmed by Icelandic agriculture.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u45	Madam President. There is exactly one reason why Iceland is not the largest export country in the world, and that is the preordained approach that has been established in agricultural and agricultural protection. This so - called protective policy has made it possible that, instead of a marvelous Icelandic agricultural product as highly regarded in Europe as French cheese or New Zealand lamb, we sit here and watch Finland sail from Iceland in an export to a quay, on a fly. They're covering a European market. Why are Finns doing that? Is it because we refuse to participate in international business? Madam President. This proposal is disintegrated because it is partly successful in robbing Icelandic consumers of European quality products in the interests of irritability over not being able to pursue free business. And just to be clear, there are no Icelandic cheese producers to produce lvarot or tomme de savoie or billat-warin. The lack of the availability of cheese from Europe does not produce an additional domestic sale of an economist or other fine Icelandic specialos. This may be a bad deal, but the premise for this proposal is silly. It's actually a rather romantic approach to the Central Party, i.e. If we don't get the level of business, despite first turning down business freedom, we're going to turn down our business freedom to move forward. It's obviously this crazy round-and-twisting citation thing that doesn't hold any opinion. Granted, there are no trades in a particular form of business, but experience only shows that this is not a very desirable form. If people really want to contribute to a powerful and sustainable agriculture in Iceland, they need more international and no less. The way out is not to resign. That's where we're trying to expand this deal. The route is to try to go further in foreign markets in Icelandic agricultural goods. In fact, the route there is to stop using some of the special needs of agriculture at the top of the world - wide discussion of our international business and to take further steps to get these products publicized worldwide. Because these are good products and just going to back off and not be in this business, because of someone, what about 800 kg or so? or tons of cheese, it's just a bad politics, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u46	A respectable president. We're here going to discuss a proposal for interpretation of a so - called toll agreement on agricultural products for the recently made European Union. This was shown in the answers to why. The leader of the proposal earlier felt that I had felt this suggestion that it was not a sign of poise, since two of the candidates of the proposal were responsible men at the time to make this contract. Let's just review the prehistoric history of this contract and its origin. In the past, such trade agreements or agreements with the European Union had been made for tax freedom or mutual imports of agricultural products. The last large watch in that time line was 2007, followed by a large discussion of food prices. At that time, the European Union's agreement on cross-interchanges with agricultural products followed by major changes, especially for chicken and pig farmers. It was then at their expense, these two habitats primarily, in order to advance market shares for farms other than farmers in the farms produced, and there was much injustice on the move. The interests of one field were being sacrificed for the interests of others. This was highly critical at the time, and it promised not to again make fair agreements. It will then be time and time when our tollvotes to the European Union began to fill up, or get very heavy, on them. Then the MAH was interested in having the European Union retryed to make room for lamb meat again. This agreement, in effect, was transmitted by former minister of foreign affairs, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson and by former agricultural ministers, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson. Again, the conclusion of the negotiations is that there are significant discrepancies between the habitats primarily, i.e. to take further on the interests of one branch in excess of other habitats. It's also correct - and I'm saying it, a respectable president, I completely agree with the writer on the imbalance in this contract, that it is composed about a kilo and a litre in this gigantic market. Why didn't we have a more market share agreement? On that basis alone, this agreement was never to be made. That's exactly what I agree with. A pilot. Of course, this is not a deal that honors each other when we make it this way; 500 million people market to 220,000 people. But this conclusion. I also feel that it is necessary that I run it from my point of view at the council at that time. It was this way for the senator at the time that he saw it on television when this toll agreement was made. Never had there been any discussion about him in the Senate class of the government I am in. However, the outcome of this negotiation, which I had otherwise watched for some years, was less likely to be the result. It came out of nowhere like a thunder, and now it became leg and foot. At the same time, after making this customs agreement, there was a stillness in reevaluating farm contracts with farmers and watchies, without considering its impact on Icelandic agriculture like that. A manager runs here and is properly done - and I throw the responsibility entirely to those who made this contract and won't carry volleyball of it, the clumsiness of not having done it. Since then, we have seen an assessment of how much damage or how much cost to agriculture and commercial farmers from this tax agreement beyond the benefits he has to bring to us. But let us not forget that some advantage has been made by this agreement. Then it was concluded that a ten - year - old domestic contract with the Bavaria Community of Iceland followed this Custom Convention. I must allow myself, too, a respectable president, to be surprised at the conclusions of a arms convention against this toll agreement. It was perfectly clear to me, when the National Farmer Association of Iceland and Aggressor and Secretary of Economic Affairs sign these contracts to ten years of age, that one of the criteria was the induction of this toll agreement. All of the members of the Parliament's Work Board, covering contracts during their therapy and in the entire United States, realized that part of the adaptation and counterwelvements mentioned, these ten - year contracts were prepared, with higher budgets because of the taxation of the taxation of the Convention on Icelandic agriculture. That's the way it was. Therefore, I marvel at this conclusion of a DG at the time it was made, feeling that it broke out with what really happened back then. All of these covenants can then be told how they have proved to be, how they have been made, but we don't run it here. This is the big movie, a respectable president. The ten - year stock contracts with increased funds were counterrequisite against this tax agreement. Since then, it has been taken care of, and is still going on, how to implement this contract, how we're going to distribute the tollovians that were agreed on. It's a big, big project, and maybe it's still not quite understood, because there are many views on that topic to ensure the true benefit of the consumers of this contract, which I say we should be obliged to do, but not to do it in ways that we can damage the potential of domestic production to deal with the competition that the contract produces and will lead to a longer with more contracts in this area that will undoubtedly be made. I think it is extremely necessary that these matters have been discussed in this proposal, which may now be extremely special in that it is the main responsibles of this contract that are now taken by surprise and think that in our eyes they are completely whitewashed by this agreement. It's not. I'm one of those responsible for this deal was approved here at the council. This was because we walked from a ten - year - old livestock contract with increased donations and knew it when farmers in their own way paid votes for these farm contracts at their time. I think it's right for us to keep that story to work. So, of course, we should continue to try to make a more favorable agreement on goods and long-term agricultural trade, for the benefit of Icelandic agriculture and its application, because I think it's totally possible and believe in it, and nothing has broken down in that belief. I think that's what we're talking about. Now there is no other way to go than to try to draw out in the way this customs contract is carried out, and potential errors in its implementation can become an Icelandic agricultural animal. We do not argue about that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u47	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's well-traveled. A number of interesting developments were found there. I think me and what. A senator can agree that no one saw it coming when this contract was made that Britain would agree to leave the European Union. Nobody saw it coming. That changes the deal a lot, and as a result, it is very important to pick it up, resign and negotiate again, mainly because of the changing circumstances that have occurred, but I also stressed other factors that I and I had. A senator agrees. The agreement is inconsistent, and unfortunately it is not sufficiently done with Iceland's interests in mind. I wanted to ask you why. A senator, who was only involved in counterabortions. I've been asking about them at the council, but I didn't get the answers to the objections. Hv. A senator mentions counterweight action in connection with the ten - year hardware contract, good and good, but the highest. Aggressor has offered additional counter measures from this platform, and I have not been told what measures it is. In case of a moment. A senator knows it would be good to be informed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u48	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. I just want to say that for two years it was time to vote for the future of Britain in the European Union. It was six months to vote when the contract was made, and no one was assigned to the negotiation. Let me read, proper President, who will make this suggestion. Yes, there's a former U.S.A. Secretary of state, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson. This had happened. It was no surprise that this principal market area, so correctly pointed out, might be on the way out of the European Union and thus some grounds for the agreements smile. For other counter-important measures, I can't give you an answer, a respectable president. I know it's working a so-called to-do-to-do group that's about to be carried out and the tollovita and import clearances that have now been opened. The way we perform it is important. Whether or not we speak of having an import of meat, whether it is on bone, whole and half bodies, and such items. There are various technical factors that can be of great importance and that strongly influence how we conduct the contract and how it bites the domestic production, as well as how it appears in potential lower prices to consumers. This is what needs balance. Similarly, there was no priority in this tax agreement that we made the same provision for the production that we were opening for. I think it's one of the main problems of the deal that we shouldn't have. Surely this should be one of the counter measures that we might take to talk about.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u49	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. He's a little caught up in who made this deal. I say in my own due respect that what really matters in the discussion is to correct the contract, to resign it, and to resume discussion with the European Union in the light of the changed predecessors. We are well aware that the results of the United Kingdom National Court, of Britain's resignation from the European Union, were surprising to all of us. I think it surprised the whole world. We need to deal with these situations. That's what I've been focusing on in my language and on it. She doesn't care who made the deal at the time, because it doesn't matter. The interests of the agricultural industry, Icelandic agriculture, are important to us to respond properly and promptly to the damage done to Icelandic agriculture.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u50	A respectable president. I'll take the final words in the second answer to who. Senator. Of course, we should walk in such a way that this will not harm the agriculture beyond what is needed. This will be very burdensome for Icelandic agriculture, such as coz. In his history, a senator was a good tracer. It will also be a worthwhile project to make the contract work for the benefit it is made to the consumers. However, this is not to be a struggle, nor should it have to be incompatible. I'll allow myself to disagree. A senator when he says that we could not have given us the conclusion that Britain would be eliminated from the European Union. I'm not gonna say I saw it coming, but first there was a vote, it could just as well be the result. We could well have been able to, because we did so with open eyes, we looked at a dairy market in Britain especially when we asked for larger dairy exports, warned about it, or at least booked what it was like. Then it will be completely put to the test, in what environment we make other and new business agreements with Britain after they leave the European Union. I know that it's the best. The minister of foreign affairs has opened up these discussions with the British, and especially with the interest of agriculture. He has changed his style of behavior, a respectable president, he has called the farmers to him to discuss the interests and the importance of discussions with Britain and other national alliances and other nations about business agreements in this area. That is a great change, and it is long overdue.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u51	A respectable president. I'm going to admit that I'm about a lot of things like that. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, I scratch a little bit in my head over the proposal, and especially the messengers of the proposal, since some of the authors have a contract there. It's good that people see each other's faces. I am a living example of how to reach a different viewpoint in life. But pretending it hasn't happened to me, I find something special. Never coming in on it and not bringing no attention to the special situation that we are facing, I feel that there's a little more going on here than merely giving up the deal immediately. I'd like to quote the State Department report published on the Internet that will not forget with this contract: There's an opportunity in the contract for Icelandic farmers. Icelandic agriculture cannot be based solely on domestic production. Increased access to foreign markets is essential. The contracts are not sacrificing at all, but they are certainly challenges for producers, and that is why they are involved in the process over a period of years. In some areas competition may increase, but opportunities for export are far higher than have ever been. I also, a respectable president, would like to quote directly to the local authorities. Secretary of State, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, who spoke with Visi about the customs agreements: ▪ This is a cause for joy for Icelandic consumers who will see instead in reduced food prices and exporters who will undoubtedly take advantage of opportunities in these contracts. I could continue, a respectable president. Why am I remembering this? Yes, because I think that one of the main responsibilities of the contract we're discussing should now be one of the couriers' proposals going out of the deal, like the one-sided, and as if a hand was waving, and as if we weren't going to sit over exactly what that means. I think that we as the General, and especially the government in general, and including the Ministry of Management for such matters, should learn from these contracts to consider things better before they are carried out. I agree with a lot of things. paritaprevir The advice of the son of Þórarinsson that many things have not been done well enough when it comes to the deal. I've never understood why we were negotiating a ton of ton against the European Union, a much larger market. I've never understood why we didn't follow up much more closely with the effect of the contract and consider beforehand, as far as possible, what his effect would be. I think it's a mistake at the end of the day. Councilmen to whom the contract was held that this case was not a better decision. Hv. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson was well aware of the link between the contract and the market agreement. True, there is something, but I feel that this agreement alone would have required greater prominence before his approval and, especially, his follow-up. That's where I think we're going. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's people would agree completely. What, then, is the solution? Is it because we cancel the contract, one, two, and three, and we do not predict the impact of it? That's not necessarily the lesson I'm learning. Hv. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson entered earlier that the contract was not all bad. I think you're absolutely right. We get to move some 3,500 tons of shirts, don't we? This set off about 10 million gallons [10 million L] of mysu we have no special use for anything else. That's what I'm talking about. paritaprevir and other transporters have a plan for what we will use the 10 million gallons [10 million L] of mysu? I don't want to fall at anything. I want to sit down and look at it. I want to try to work professionally. I'm not gonna take part in a game where people try to beat some political cones, because I agree with that. paritaprevir Haraldur, son of Benediktsson, that there are some of them here. Transporters act as if the matter was irrelevant to them and have never touched them before. They are as freshly shaken as snow, white and clean as snow, and have never had anything to do with it; sharpness. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, then the highest. Secretary of state, what? paritaprevir At that time, Sigmundur, Davíð, the son of Gunnlaugsson, was the chief. Prime Minister. Now, it seems that the Central Party has become a special candidate for apology and has made a matter of hearing that the Council apologizes for past decisions, decisions made by other members of Congress in this hall. I'm sorry. Travelers should not have taken advantage of this opportunity to apologize for their own actions, for it is more important for them to apologize for their own actions than for others. Hv. Transporters, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson and Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, could stand here and apologize for this contract they find today so unlikely that we should resign him, one, two and three, without considering exactly how it works. But they also do not demand that we apologize for something that other members of the council have done. I find this a ruined opportunity, a respectable president, and I'm sorry. But in this matter, I restate that treaties aren't something that goes off like hand is waved. Hv. A senator refers to Bfenit and agreements with Britain after its departure from the European Union. I don't think there's something we're going to do tomorrow or next year. We don't know exactly what the situation will be. I believe we'll sit over the deal, look at its impact. That's what I've been talking about. Well, good if we did. The senator did not agree on various aspects of his conversation during the last assembly. But the solution is not to throw out the deal, one, two, three. The solution is to try to get over it, to examine the effects, can you perform counter measures? I agree with what. Senator, I would have liked to see the sign of wearing it. Above all, we need to examine things and make a balanced decision. We are not in a council hall to beat political cones and be popular. We're here to try to work professionally on things.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u52	Madam President. Thank you very much. A senator for his introduction in the discussion. Hv. A senator is a little caught up in who made this contract at the time. I'd like to ask him if it's political cones dealing with premium failures. How do you get a what? A senator out of it? I'm a senator in a large national district where I've met a number of farmers who are worried about the deal, and that's a big concern. It is my duty as a senator to try to find solutions to the situation because this will affect a number of families in the country, farmers and interests of Iceland in the whole of their country when it comes to agricultural production. I don't understand what's going on. A senator may call it political cones to react to Britain's resigning from the European Union and thereby leaving the contract. This is our largest and best market area. Maybe he's got a what. A senator better explain what he's doing with this. I'd love to hear them then. I also want to correct what he said earlier. There's no suggestion to cancel the deal, just one, two, three. It's been six months since the proposal is accepted until the resignation is due to take effect. Of course, that time would be used to sit down with the European Union, finding ways to improve the progress of the contract. It is clear that this contract truly needs to be improved. It involves breaking up with him and then making new ones.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u53	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for pointing out these six months, since my words made sense that I thought this would only happen tomorrow, and I've only exceeded myself there. What I'm saying is that six months at the time of international contracts is a pretty short period, six months to settle over and make new contracts. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator fully realizes it the way I do that it is not available. Although we are capable men who can sit down and make such arrangements in six months, it is not quite that simple. No, it's not political cones responding to premium failures. But responding in this way makes me feel like political cones. Yeah, well, the deal's been against a lot of people. Over it must sit down, whether it is possible to meet them. Well, maybe. A senator claims that there are no families in the country who benefit from the agreement? What about the 10 million gallons of mosu I mentioned? What's the deal? A senator saying to the producers of the products that will lose their market for them? Has a what? A senator reviews the consequences of his suggestion, and can he claim that it will bring benefits to all families in all terms? I'm not sure he can. Of course, we should react when people tell us that the previous decisions made by Generalis are not good enough and that they may even need to be revised. But we should do so in a balanced, professional way, by setting things over and weighing the best way to do things. What's the deal? A senator to do if there is a new election in Britain and the British do not leave the European Union, as one of the largest classes in England suggests?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u54	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. I hear we all agree that this is not a good deal. We may differ in ways to improve this. Hv. A senator will wonder what would happen if a replacement for Britain's resignation from the European Union was chosen. I heard recently in the news that the prime minister of Britain, May May, has made a clear declaration that there will be no reelection. So I think there's something we don't have to talk about. Hv. A senator also mentioned whether there are no families that benefit from the contract. I tell you very well that the Central Party is certainly an advocate that consumers can buy good agricultural products at a good price here. The suggestion does not work to prevent consumers from buying goods at a good price. It is primarily about the fact that a contract has been made that is unfortunate Iceland and that it is important to deal with the misunderstanding I've caused several times, which will appear to us now and will happen in the middle of the next year. That's what it's all about. I hear what you're saying. A senator is on that line. I hear you. It's only a question of the routes we have to go. Certainly, there is a period of six months in an international contract. However, the situation is in a way that we can deal with it. That's why I think the proposal is very practical in that regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u55	A respectable president. I'm gonna pray. A senator of the longest words not going out on the high path of trying to read my mind about something I haven't said. There are many complications, and cowards do not immediately try to read what is going on. I'm not necessarily talking about consumers, though they're certainly big changes in the materials that have to be taken into account and the customs agreements were part of a larger package of livestock contracts like what to do. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson came in. I'm also talking about producers. I asked why. A senator what he was going to do for producers of the 10 billion. A quart of mysa. He hasn't answered anything. Six months may be a long time. But I'd love to, if you know what I mean. A senator could provide examples of international agreements on business and customs that would have been obtained at that time. We often talk about years of activity. What's the deal? A senator to do so, from the time his six - month period until the end of the contract is reached, if they get caught? That's what I'm talking about. I don't think this is a big deal for me. I don't think it's too much. This does not represent a very professional practice. Hv. A senator reviewed earlier what events in Britain would have surprised people very quickly before they took place. It can happen again. No one knows what he's had until he's lost. In this case, we cannot sit down tomorrow and talk to the British. It is so complicated that we cannot control it, even if we would like to. [[The president calls.]] This environment will not be explained until after the use of Baltrexone. But why does it want to be? A senator's hurry to do this right now?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u56	Madam President. In the beginning, it may be appropriate to point out that if this Convention's resolution is made, it will solve me from the requirement of returning the highest. Agrienvironment schemes for the task force on a new method of assigning to-dotes associated with a toll agreement to the European Union. In this regard, perhaps I should agree, saving myself time and work. But it's not that simple. I suppose, unfortunately, the move may not have been quite the focus of the suggestion. Of course, it is good to make such a suggestion, which is now more likely to fit some political booth. I do not comment on sending out messages to my voters and trying to appeal to someone new. However, it is worth remembering that the leading party to this tax agreement is essentially from May 2011, when the national Marketing Authorisation Holder and departments in the milk industry began searching for government support for treaties with the European Union. In June of the same year, Iceland's Pork Farmer Association requested that the Ministry secure this export to the European Union. And in June 2013, individual poultry producers declared in a meeting that if there was a contract for chicken expansion, it would be necessary for Iceland to get mutuality, etc. I think it is right to maintain this too in this discussion that the treaty led by the then prime minister, the Sigmunds of Davíð the Gunnlaugsson of Gunnuga, then the minister of foreign affairs, Bragi Sveinsson, and then the Supreme Court. Agricultural minister, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, was taken by a group of farmers who proposed to begin a contract with the European Union. One of the reasons why men wanted to ensure a mutual toll agreement, tollovita, was that they feared that certain uncertainty could develop or be created, especially if the pressure on open tollovate is not available on the domestic market. The openings of the tollovians would be established by reduced tolls and, in time, would be at risk of reducing tolls as a principle, not an exception. More important, Icelandic farmers were deeply concerned. But if this proposal succeeds, I'd say we're going to face this uncertainty because of an open tollovita, which I believe we need to revise. I'd be much better off if I were what I was. Transporters suggest that we revise the process of opening tollovates, which may suggest that we are also considering in relation to the rule of action that we believe is the right means to implement the distribution of customs in connection with the customs agreement with the European Union. However, I believe that it is true that the hopes for an Icelandic agricultural market in Europe may not have been exactly what was hoped for. After the contract was signed in 2015, it was the highest. the local secretary of state and one of the representatives of this proposal remains in the media, with the permission of a president: ▪ This is a cause for joy for Icelandic consumers who will see instead in reduced food prices and exporters who will undoubtedly take advantage of opportunities in these contracts. It may be true that there was considerable optimism, on the one hand, that the Icelandic consumers would enjoy this contract, but it will be fully established in the next four years, and it is the task that is now too early to judge. On the other hand, Icelandic producers and farmers may not have taken advantage of this opportunity in ways they should have done. But there is in itself no evidence that such agreements should be dismissed, i.e. The lack of opportunities by international treaties, free trade agreements have become evidence of reporting such agreements. I also generally think deeply about the trend taking place in Icelandic agriculture. I'm worried about the state of Icelandic agriculture. It seems to me that the challenges of Icelandic agriculture are only to a small extent linked to the customs agreement we address here. I am, for example. Think about it when I read an article in the Farmer magazine by Ingvi Stefánsson, president of the Swamp Prayer Association, which brings out the facts that while the general prices have increased by 10% in the last five years, pig farmers have been reduced by 13%. But the price of consumers on pork has gone up beyond the price level. This has happened at the same time as the market share of foreign pork is approaching to become about one third of the world's population. How has this happened? Yes, it has happened through the open tollquathana, not the tax agreement with the EU. So if it was real interest to discuss such international transactions, the state of Icelandic agriculture towards the outside competition, because, of course, we also want to make good food available to consumers and that they have the freedom to choose food, which, on the other hand, must meet the requirements for health care, I think that the movers should have made a special suggestion about it or at least suggest that we revise the rules and laws that apply to open tollovita. These are the ones, but not the toll agreement with the EU that are the problem. This is what I wanted, and I thought it proper to present a dignified president. The case will receive its regular treatment, but unfortunately, the matter is in such a way that it will be at least not supported by the people listed here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u57	President. I hereby recommend a judicial hearing on the lack of tax pay less than 300,000 dollars. Transporters are members of Stockholm's council in line with the policy presented by the Party for the General elections less than a year ago. Plus, there's a strong team member from the Central Party, huh? paritaprevir Kolbrún Colbrow Árnadóttir and Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson. The suggestion is as follows: The General concluded to hide a financial and economic minister from making a monthly income of under 300,000 dollars. if taxpayers are withheld and by legal regulations the appropriate measures to be taken before 2018. Madam President. This proposal is reimbursed from the 148th legion, the last council, but with several adjustments in subject and addition to a report based on a report prepared by Dr. Haukur Arnþórsson who worked for the council of Stockholm's people, following this proposal. The report of Arnþórsson Arnethon's son discusses the equation, called the Inculcation in the IRS, dealing with the equation, benefits and benefits of this. Here are the proposals for tax changes that could be met by the wishes and demands of the labor movement for the increased income of the lowest salary and of those in general with less pay and more recovery in the tax system. The Conspiracy proposal means that financial and economic ministers are assigned to set up a timetable for earning an individual under 300,000 dollars. ... ifthere'sa understatement. These tax limits correspond to the character withdrawal of 106,387 k. This is a double tax limit. On the other hand, the basis for calculating in the report of Haukur Arnethon's Arnþórsson is that the tax step remains unchanged. The objective of this proposal is two, Madam President, to equal the tax burden between income groups so that society's involvement with rich and poor will be more similar to that in other parts of the North and to spare those who have income underdeveloped limits to paying taxes on such revenues. The proposal contributes to bringing in money within the tax system, which is presented in the lower tax system of underpayers of income and higher in those with high income. The proposal is ejected from a long - term trend where tax loads have moved from income to the low income. To deal with the costs of this change, a person's withdrawal is suggested to reduce the amount of income that is higher and fall all the way down at the limit of 970,000 k. The motion assumes that the person's reaction will fall along a curved process, resulting in a softening effect on the earnings of larger groups and also shows that the emphasis is strongly on raising the provision of low-payers. The proposal suggests that the venal point of lower and higher taxes will be at 562,000 dollars. month. For a month above that amount, tax returns until the tax rate reaches 53,895. a month of 970,000 k. The rate of higher income would be the same. The estimated increase in income taxation of higher income will be used to reduce the burden of less revenues. This involves the application within the system that this suggestion assumes. The effect of this proposal is that it will increase the provision of 70% taxpayers, especially those on low pay in the labour market or in pension. The cost of government funds due to changes in income tax would be small, for most of the transfers between income groups would be small. However, the expense of a community would be about 31.5 billion. According to a report published in August 2017, while there has been an increase in personal withdrawal since the turn of the century, the rate of taxation of the remuneration of remuneration has been found to decrease over the years of the report, i.e. In 1998, 20042016. Thus, the noxious limits have fallen to real value over the years. The results of an assessment by the Federal Republic of America, published in the following report, show that the overall tax burden of remuneration, taking into account personal withdrawal, exudative and personal withdrawal, as well as children, interest and housing improvements, has increased in all revenues during this period, this 18 years, and the largest increase in income. International counting data support the results of the Common Union, which refers to the Paris Economic and Development Institute for the OECD. Data in OECD include: finding information on the tax burden of norse households. These OECD data, when checked and compared with the homes listed here, show that the tax burden of the domestic income is similar here to that of 22◯30%, except in Denmark where it is very low, but the tax burden of the land's farms is 8% lower. I reiterate: The tax burden of income-rich households is 8% lower than in the general population in the North. The Department's Web site shows that the monthly stratosphere set of 223,046 k. During 2017, housing costs are not taken into account. The cost of housing is not included in this consumption target, either business or rent. However, the camp loan fund has published that the cost of housing for Icelandic families is an average of 16%, which could mean about 100,000 bucks. According to this, the average cost of living by an individual was 323,000 k. after taxes in 2017. The amount of money may be considered least too high in relation to the development of housing costs that can be expected to be clear to all. This means, Mrs. President, that income under alimony, the official government's own forwardship, is tax collections in accordance with current income tax requirements, although they do not charge for minimal progress. We're taxing poverty here. It is therefore endeavoring to respond with this suggestion. No government that wants to be identified in the best of life makes itself feel that way. So this arrangement is made with the aim that people will be made to survive better and that no one will need to see the tax derived from nonessential income. An opinion of the proposal reveals that the provision of the taxpayers of all under 562,000 dollars was made. This proposal is raised. This is true of 70% of the taxpayers in 2017, as previously said. With this proposal, Madam President, the taxpayers' status will change as follows: 1st Payers from current tax-free intervals, 151,978 k, to a new tax cut, 300,000 k, get their pay and the tax rate will be 0%. 2. Those who make the best use of the tax-free zone have 300,000 dollars. month. These provisions increase by 21.6%, by 51,225 K. The Tesseract group 300,000 Pharisees forty-two5,000 kr. receives additional provisions from today's income; 51,000,25,000, which are falling with increasing income. The tax burden would be 0.9416.5%. 3. The Tesseract group 425,000,3562,000. I'll give $25,000-0k. in increased provisions that were in decline and his tax burden would be 16.5/26%. 4. Those with income range from 562,000 to 99,000. will be provided with a lower set of provisions, 0.9453,895 k. and 26◯36.8% tax rate. 5. All those with more income than 970,000. will be provided with a lower set of provisions of 53,895k. And the weight of the greater tax, by 36.8%•46%; and the rate of the taxes, according to the increase in income, is according to the proportion of the highest tax. The suggestion would include a substantial decrease in the rate of low wages. However, the low-paying rate of the family types, as defined by OECD, would be well below the Norwegian averages and the tax burden of higher pay would be considerably lower than the average of other taxpayers in the North countries. I've got a special interest in this. Overall, the tax ratio between income groups could shift or be similar to that in the North countries. Here's a proposal to change the general tax system, Madam President, and thus set new goals. The difference between the tax burden of earning hair and the low income in this country is correct compared to the percentages between comparable groups in other countries as well as the management of the lowest pay range. This suggestion would serve the interests of the elderly, the desperate, and the income of the needy.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u58	Madam President. I am a co-sponsor of this proposal for Congress, and I am very happy that it has come out. The proposal has been reassigned from the previous council, but much has been added to support, mainly by the report by Dr. Haukur the Arnþórsson of Arnethor, a tax collector. This report and this suggestion of such evidence is completely new to the discussion of the possibilities so far discussed, that payers and people under 300,000 dollars can be brought. tax deficiency. You've been talking like it's impossible to change. Here in our suggestion, and in the report of Haukur's Arnþórsson Arnoth, it is crystal clear that there is no impossible option. The proposal assumes that, as clearly stated in the report, the IRS is being increased 100%, i.e. of 106,000. beds like this were here when the local pay was recorded in 1987. It is expected that the personal withdrawal will be gradual and destroyed by income up to 970,000 k, that those on top of it will have no personality deduction. Thus, changes are expected to be partly financed by moving the tax burden from the lowest income group, especially those below 300,000 k., to income groups that are far above it and not to start counting until the revenues are over 560,000 k. This is merely a tax burden between income groups. The rate of taxation is expected to remain unchanged from today's levels. Most of all, there is only transfers within the tax system and most of the transfer between income groups. Yet, according to this suggestion, there are over 30 billion left, which leaves the local population's budget in the form of an outback. Our suggestion is no more expensive than the proposal for an election of the Independence Party, which made it a point to lower the tax percentage to 35% across the line, is similar to this proposal. This is no longer an impossible thing to do. I hope we can discuss this proposal here at the council and on the committee and in the community so that it will be in black and white how it is and how it can be done. If I cross the tax rate in the past few years, the tax rate of pay which is 2/3 of the averages has increased between 2000 and 2017 by 270%. The tax percentage of people, a single person, with 2/3 of the averages - was 5.9% tax on that salary. Today, it's 22%. This has increased almost 30% in very low wages. The average monthly tax rate of singles has increased from less than 29% to 33%, or about 15%, i.e. much less. If we go a little higher - the singles' tax rate, with an average of less than double wage of 167%, has fallen from 39.6% to 38.3%; it has fallen by 3%. This is what has been happening over the last 17 years. The tax burden on the lower income groups has been rising substantially above the average tax and above has been largely replaced and reduced on top of the pay. These are the facts. This is a correction for these groups, this body of Congress resolution that we are moving here to see that the Secretary of Economics and Economics will be committed to the application of this procedure, as stated in the Parliament's resolution. What changes mainly in the situation of the taxpayers are as follows: Payers from current tax-free intervals, 151,978 k, to a new tax cut, 300,000 k, get their pay and the tax rate will be 0%. Those who make the best use of the tax-free zone have 300,000 dollars. month. These provisions increase by 21.6%, by 51,225 K. The Tesseract group 300,000 Pharisees forty-two5,000 kr. receives additional provisions from today's income; 51,000,25,000, which are falling with increasing income. The tax burden would be 0.9416.5%. The Tesseract group 425,000,3562,000. I'll give $25,000-0k. in increased provisions that were in decline and his tax burden would be 16.5/26%. Those with income range from 562,000 to 99,000. will be provided with a lower set of provisions, 0.9453,895 k. and 26◯36.8% tax rate. - That wouldn't be more than that. The higher would be higher than the tax rate. I expect this synonym to be referred to a committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u59	Mr. President. A few rights for a trial. Thus, our tax system is in a way that the switch between government funds and rural society makes it payable only in the income range of 1,52,000,250,000. If you notice that there are 13 billion dollars in this income range. During 2017, 13 billion people who do not have progress according to official criteria in this regard. In the income range of 250,000,300,000 k. embraces another 13 billion, while the state's budget takes $3.3 billion. So up to 300,000, the local community is taking 26 billion, a government account of 3.5. Of course, this proposal would reduce the outbacks of a community and would best be said out loud. This figure, Mr. President, highlights the magnitude of the funding of the unit level dependent on low income taxation, not to say the lowest income, Mr. President. Of course, this may have to be balanced, for in recent years the state has brought costly service to the rural communities. However, the majority of rural society should be reminded each, or at least Many, in recent years, have collected much higher real estate fees for tenants than before because of the increase in real estate evaluations. Mr. President. It may be appropriate to mention it, like cot. paritaprevir In his talk, in his report and in the report of the Karl of Arnþórsson Hjaltason, followed by this proposal, there are more suggestions on changing the tax system than this. These include suggestions for which the Independence Party, the Ministry of finance, used for, or at least spoke for, for the last election. It is about reducing the lower tax level from 36.94% to 35%, which is more than 1.5 percentage points reduction in this tax level. It is calculated in the report by Arnþórsson Arnethon that the cost of this proposal would be less than 24 billion. The cost of the proposed proposal is somewhat higher, certainly, over 31 billion - and I don't minimize this difference in any way, it's quite a bit of money - but it's not the sky and it's hanging between. There are, in fact, other benefits that are calculated in the report that follows this proposal. So this is, let me say, Mr. President, propose a significant proposal to change this arrangement. It is reflected in the material we have presented here, in a report, and in the report of the son of Arnþórsson Arnethon, that the proposal we make here, the party of the people, by means of two o'clock. The members of the Central Party, including high tax limit and reduced character withdrawal. This proposal achieves its purpose in the equations far better than 35% of the way I could in the past, it brings down all the payoffs. It's a whole different place. This is a system equalizing and using money, which, in some sense, exists inside the system for the lowest, and has a lower salary in general. The economic difference between these routes is much less, as I have traced, but may and might be explained, as I had previously thought, by the transfer of taxes between income groups. It is attributed to a report and a report that, if the bodies are involved, the income of public citizens will rise by about 40 billion dollars. from 2017/2019 due to increased income of taxpayers. That might be about 32 billion years. In the state and in the state of the United States, 13 billion dollars. for the rural population. This is more specific. It is not unnatural, Mr. President, and only natural, that some part of this apparent increase is used to equal the tax burden and right the lowest earner's income.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u60	A respectable president. I hereby recommend an interpretation resolution of the day of the new voters. This proposal is directed to the President himself and to all of us who are seated here, and is about the order of the General Assembly to assign the President of the Generals to open the doors of the Council every spring of the year for those who gain the vote of that year and for an organized program of education on democratic participation. The president keeps his arms around the organization and the activities of the day, along with a specialist who will be temporarily hired for the project. When planning, the minister of justice, the educational authorities, and the association of young people and immigrants will be consulted. If this proposal succeeds, it is the hope that the new voters' day will first be organized on the spring days of 2019. With the one listed here, 16 members of most categories are suggested. When I was working on that proposal, I used to call it democracy choice. The very idea is that this is a pleasant event, open at the doors of this remarkable house where we are working, invite everyone who has received the right to vote, the right which enables us to serve here in the nation's commission, once a year inviting the people to whom they are added by year to a group of voters. We'll wrap it up, and it'll be almost a sort of rittal, that we'll welcome people to a group of adults and a proper voter and a member of the democracy, as it belongs. What matters also is that this is not just for elections but for those groups. There's something that I think we're familiar with most of the people who have been involved in a campaign. Often, the most interesting discussions, such as in high school, full of new voters and people who are about to become voters. They are people who do not have the full attention of those who work in politics except perhaps for elections. That's not good enough. It is not only bad to them but also to us because we need this recovery from new people who bring new ideas to the table. As we have seen so repeatedly in recent years, the generations of Iceland are filled with political enthusiasm and fresh ideas that have many already changed society. I mention various social media revolutions that have set up a number of important issues. We need to get these powers out of the community into traditional politics, show people who, obviously, have much to offer that one of the places they can bring them is here on the east side in a conversation with traditional politics. During the past few years, we in politics have been concerned about losing our participation in elections. I don't know if the President has noticed, but last night, the Habitat published the results of the campaign program during the spring election. There's an increase from the last county election, but it's not big, it's too small, to be honest. As has been true every time this has been measured, the majority of participants in the youngest groups are among those under 30 years of age. They do not return to an ideal place to the same degree as older ones. This affects the way the council is put together, how the rural government is organized, how society develops to the future. This means that here in the Generals' walls, the voices of young people are not as strong as they should be. One of the things that we can do to change this is to accept this proposal, which is designed to extend especially to those 18 years of age, which count from 4,000 to 5,000 people every year, and to those who receive citizenship every year of their lifetime, which is supposed to be 400 to 1,500,500 people every year. These are two of the worst available groups at an ideal location, and these are two of the groups that are not in this room to a sufficient degree. There is no immigrant or Indian member during this election season. There's one senator under the 30th term. This is part of the problem. This maintains the problem that people feel that traditional politics are not in touch with society when we reflect society any better than this. On the day of the new voters, I suggest that we look at what has been done in Reykjavíkurburg, who did a lot of work for the last county election to reach especially young voters but also voters with foreign citizen rights because there are more open terms for elections than for elections. Sent was personal mail to all those people. It's an old-fashioned method, but something I think we could record. Send a letter, mail to a day of new voters. Dear new voter, come and meet us. Meet representatives of the political parties, meet a group of members, meet with an organization that can show you how you can influence the political community. This would be an added responsibility for showing these people the value of having an influence. It is important that we do well in carrying out our day - to - day activities. We must not get stuck in this box, but I suggest that an external expert be hired to keep out the job and that it will be working closely with other young people's organisations, such as to form the National Association of Young Associations and the International High Schools Association, which are the persons who have been involved in the #Ikins project, and, on the other hand, are to be cooperated closely with experts in the affairs of immigrants, and everything will be done to make presentations to these different groups and heads to most people so that we are speaking to the group we welcome. It should be noted, then, that there is, of course, a wealth of people here on earth who could benefit from that day. I'm not only talking about us political pros, who, of course, are supposed to come and introduce our project and perspective and talk to the people who come to our house, but also to the members of the General Assembly, who have years of experience in welcoming groups here. This is the School Hall, which is taken up by groups of young people often a week, leading through the council. These are people who can help us to do this well. Then the natural question is, does it work? I think this is going to work. I think this will even wind up so that after a few years some interested rural society will take a similar task on its own and begin to invite voters who have the right to vote for a country election to visit town in town. Then we're showing people that it's part of this democratic society on which our work is based. Now that we're here in a little faith, Mr. President, maybe I'm just hoping that the people who know this invitation will walk into this house and feel the same feeling that I still feel like I've been working here for two years; feeling this feeling that there's the focus of democracy in this country, it's filled with the humility of being in the same house that the council's been working for a hundred and a half years now. This is where things happen, and here we're supposed to do some good work, and I'm hoping that by welcoming people, we can get them out of that feeling, the tension that we're doing here have for the projects. Maybe it'll turn up an extra election, but it's not necessarily the only goal. This is mainly to be returned in serious agreement between us and the people who come to our home for whom we work.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u61	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson for the story of the motion under discussion. I'm going to say first because this team is antiquated that this is not an personal answer, but I'm using this opportunity, hoping that a respectable president will forgive me so that he can come up with some of the factors that we have. A senator came in very handy. This is a suggestion to assign the president of the Generals to open the door of Generalis every spring of the year to those who gain the right to vote for that year. I think of the day when a 100 - year - old woman's election rights were remembered and that visit. It was a great day. It was a great day. Then there are all the good plans involved in this proposal. I think it's a great idea, and I would like to get back to having a lot of talk about promoting democracy and, in particular, promoting participation in social discussions by young people. I might say it more like that than me saying part of politics. That it will be involved in this discussion. This is to increase confidence in politics, political parties, and the Generals as legislators, and especially to show that our work and our community can be influenced.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u62	A respectable president. Thank you. His senator has a positive answer. I have seen pictures of this day of 2015 as nearly 2,000 people walked through the halls of the Generals and were allowed only to drink the story and the stamping. Clearly, this has been a very good day, and it also shows how easy it is to accomplish it. It's a very manageable project, opening this house, doing our job and doing it. The Senator mentioned the key to showing people that they can influence, how they can influence, and to promote democracy. These are things we're always talking about. We're always talking about somehow increasing our participation in elections, somehow we're gonna have to promote democracy, and we're gonna have to put democracy into the hearts of the people. Here is one very simple action to do so, and not to make someone else do it, but to ourselves to do it, to be responsible. If the President lets me blow a little bit of that, it's like this your mier-were your mother's case. Here we are doing what we're always talking about having to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u63	Although a seated president is gentle, the matter is still Icelandic.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u64	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson's conversation and the answer to the points I received in my previous reply. Hv. A senator came into it in his speech, that although we try to approach the democracy to reflect the community in this council hall, it does not. Hv. A senator introduced social changes and the growth of immigrants, and they lacked the need for us to save our community to the full. The suggestion to open the House and have the conversation with the young voters may help us to change this. I want to take this opportunity here and ask why. A senator whether he sees anything else that we can do to change this. I have a feeling that we need to use ourselves to change this, even within the categories, in our conversations out, each political party for itself. And because we're now on those notes, I can say the word. A senator, if any. A senator has ideas in his book, I'd appreciate it if he'd get them in here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u65	A respectable president. It's not the little projects I'm given. It's certainly a problem that we don't reflect society well in here at the council. The Senator, like me, mentioned in my background that there were young people missing and here there were immigrants not to the same degree as in society itself. It's both things that went down at the last election at the same time that we went under the 40% limit in terms of women here at council. These three variables seem to be completely maintained. When it comes to being a different council, it's all connected. I think that part of what we have to do to change this is to get younger voters to voters in the polls because of it, now I hope that no one present will take it badly, that young people today are so much better, better able to talk, better in their language, more correct than we are as older. The generation that is growing up today in Iceland sometimes only makes me feel dumb about how it can stand before one thing of righteousness after another. Is there anything other than this suggestion that we can take to heart? Yeah, it's a lot. It's a tiny bit of a giant puzzle that we have to work together, not just to get young people, but to win the confidence of voters in general. Shows people that paying votes is important, they give something in here at the council, they give something to make changes in their lives. This pathetic council proposal is just a small step in that direction.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u66	A respectable president. I like this suggestion very much. A senator and I want to review some of the things I think she rhymes with. At first, it sounds like this rock festival of the conversation - Lyla, a meeting of the people before - but the difference is that it opens the doors of the Generalis that I think is important, that this house, this institution, is not as isolated as it has been in recent decades. We are living in a time that is not nearly as isolated as before. I had an idea and started a case in the processing of a baby council that was then expressed to me as being working. The very idea was that this hall would be used in a baby council. I'm not sure if he's going to be used in the Children's Congress that's now being worked on, but if you don't have to bring the idea here that people will come and use this room. I also have a case in progress, which I call a national council or something like, in which random people are actually chosen to come and give a speech in this council. Just as was done at the meeting, where an outside party was arranged to tell members of the assembly and nation. There are very important and very important reasons why we need to participate in this democratic society that is not only here but also outside and welcome those who are becoming new voters. They show themselves in these numbers, participation in elections. The problem these figures demonstrate is the difference, generation gap, which is part of the program. It causes very serious problems, such as. ... totheBfenit-Preservation. When it was considered by age who chose to leave the European Union or to be in it, it was the older generation that decided to leave the European Union. Those people were making a decision for the future generation. It was a decision that did not particularly affect people personally in the number of years. The future generations wanted to remain in the relationship, and if there had been a better participation among younger people, their future would have been in the European Union. I find it interesting to walk out of the problem we're trying to work against with this proposal, to bridge this generation gap. We all have to be part of a democracies community, not just the older ones, as has been the recent election, since the percentage of older voters who have used their vote has been somewhat higher than younger ones. I also agree with that word. The traveling overseer to the young people today is simply much better able to communicate with them, and much more correct, and I wholeheartedly agree with them. For example, I was watching a show on Netflix, entitled Expanded, and I was reviewing the difference between the sex pay where Iceland is actually the lead figure. Our Prime Minister has, however, quite a long interview on these factors. But my son, who's eight, was sitting right next to me, he just asked me to stop, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, what's the pay difference between genders, how exactly does that work, are women with less pay than men, huh? It wasn't something that was thinking, he didn't even think of it, it was so strange that he asked me to stop the show to explain it to him better. He wasn't quite guddleding it, but I'll let it go. One of the factors involved came into the last assembly, it was the 148th Congress. It was the bill of a fall in election age as for some reason, in the middle of 3. Um, never went to vote. I think senators should seriously consider what happened. Why did things stop at 3. ... awrong.? Lots of cases that were in 2nd. went before that during the council, going through the council, but a case in the middle of the 3rd district. I didn't get out, a case about lowering election age to 16 years in the county election. I think it's a huge question for senators to face what happened here at our last council. It was only as we calculated it to a maximum of ten hours or something - if everyone had used all their dues and answers, etc. - behind that discussion, and I'm sure it will be a lot shorter, people probably wouldn't have used it all that time. So if there had been a case here at the beginning of some council meeting, or it would have been put on the first schedule and finished, at least to the point where it could have been voted--in history, in the rest of the year. and through 2nd. that case, the senators voted in the vast majority by lowering their election age. The law's motion to reduce age from 18 to 16 was accepted with an overwhelmingly greater portion, but it reminds me that one has paid a vote against if I do not forget. It's totally out of memory, so if I'm wrong, I'm sorry. Despite this conclusion, regarding the change in these laws, it was not possible to complete the case here at the last council. I guess, considering all else, that this case is going well and that we can also finish the case on the decline of election age, but it's very, very remarkable that it's not over yet.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u67	Mr. President. This controversies proposal is quite remarkable and should be attributed to the first traveling overseer. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson, for the matter. In many respects, the matter is important. Of course, it is important to encourage young people to join in molding their own future, as well as for new voters, immigrants, who come here and get a vote. There is a great deal of wealth in these people together, and it is important that they are invited to participate and work in the society in which they live. I think it is also important to disable this, as is suggested here, the annual campaign manager, when many suddenly wake up that there are voters who need to talk to. It is important that the new voters better understand what is involved in the Generals'work. I think this is to bring the council and their work closer to new voters because our image in many minds is that sitting here in some sort of ivory tower, I'll let me call it, people who are more important or the other people, which may be worse, I don't know that it's a theater, but it's often spoken of the theater in the Middle East. It's not a good image, so it's so important to show people in the ministry and how they do it. It is not as if nothing is done, nor does the council itself do well to welcome people who want to visit. There is a school council and I have been invited to visit, and several times I have been hired as a senator to converse with young people who have been at the council for the work of the council and the politics. All I need to know is that people are both very interested and appreciate being talked to. That's what we have to do, the council, and we are, of course, members of the council, and we can't throw everything over the council. We have the appearance and the people who press on to the Senate. So I think it's very important that you do well. Hopefully, we will succeed in cultivating the interest of new voters in participating in society and using their right to vote. I once again declare my pleasure with the suggestion. I think it can be part of strengthening confidence in the Council and increasing the respect of the citizens for what is being done, provided that we treat what we are doing, and make ourselves trustworthy.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u68	Mr. President. It's a great job. There's been some talk about a school council here where seniors are invited to come to the hall under the building site on the other side of the East Coast. They used the old chairs that were in the council hall and had a satellite hall and a pseudo-named room, and then they play role games where there are some subjects on the program, and they actually get to go through them. This is very interesting, and I'm encouraging everyone to try this. I spoke to the people who handle it here at the General and I'm allowed to use it. I can use this myself. I've been thinking for a long time about how to put this on, if you should go on the course that's being there, maybe you just hurry up and do it first, so you can let people get involved. It's so important that people understand how the work works here. The case goes on to the committee I am in, the Board of Directors and Commission, and, therefore, I'll be one of the members of the Committee. Like I said to what. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson, a traveling overseer in a side room, is one thing that I do me a little bit about that could be considered on the committee. It says: 'The General Assembly finds that the President of the Generals would hide the door of the Generals'... and it's great to invite people in just about to come in here, invite them to welcome and let them feel that things are happening here and that they can get involved. I'm not talking about, like, cot. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson mentions, if it could come to a hearing at a meeting, as it is now clear that it is permitted according to the President of the Generals. The public might be allowed to do so, but this does not conflict with a constitution. It's allowed. However, there is another factor that is also assigned to the President of the Generalis in this proposal, and it is planning a program for education on democratic participation. I don't know if I'd trust all the presidents I've been living in the years I've been here, that's a natural time, a lot of terms, to be careful with this warrant, that they're the ones who're supposed to teach these new Peoples about democratic participation. The report, however, points to the question. A senator and a traveling overseer, Andrés Ingi Jónsson, mentioned all kinds of groups that could attend to this project, those who handle #IEdit, etc. I'd rather put the phrase into the conclusion that you can make to the committee that this was not something the president could take over and be in charge himself. The arrangement must be such that it is truly democratic, and it cannot be abused. Other than that, I love this idea and will speak to her on the committee so that she will have a good career. This is so important, people don't know how things really work at a council. Any sources, e.g. Senators? There is a big misunderstanding as to which sources are available. On the one hand, people think we have overwhelming sources of authority, e.g. Councilmen in memory, etc., or very small. We don't have much authority, especially taking the initiative, moving them on, etc. But we have other sources, neglected, that people do not realize we have, and therefore do not call for us to use our surveillance authority to monitor the specific authority. If people are interested, they can go to my Facebook page, and underneath these are albums, and one is called The Games -- what no one told you. The reason I started this is because the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency created a card for its employees to learn the rhythms of the spy industry. I've been playing with it the same way for the Senate. The first four cards of this game are interesting. It shows that there are eight fixed committees of the Generals; they take over every subject of society. There are nine members of each committee, and only three are needed on each committee, i.e. 1/3, which may call for a discussion on the committee. Only three of these committees are needed to call for a minister and anyone to attend a meeting to inform the committee on that particular subject. If there is some important issue in the community that is not being involved, and there is a rich demand for better enlightenment, better supervision, and for which there is something in the realm of government, and therefore the surveillance role of the council is made, three of the nine members of the committee may be called after a meeting, and there shall be a meeting in the Committee, a minister, and anyone who is present and revealed the matter - it naturally requires that the matter be of such kind - and therefore the meeting is open and therefore a webcast and therefore taken up so that the people can see him and if they miss him later can look at him. And since the matter is discussed in the Committee, all government data can be called into question. The role of the council is immensely high, and this was established during the reigns of the left green and the United States when the law of Congress was changed. At that time, the Senate's surveillance role was greatly enhanced, and many of these sources came in. This card is something I've started setting up, and men can take a look at it, and then maybe we can start playing it together at the council. There are many other sources that we can play together. As a result, the inhabitants can begin to visualize the same thing. I support this matter wholeheartedly, given that it is quite clear that the president cannot abuse his authority and set it up, as the text says, that he organizes a program for education by democratic participation. Let us do so more, and perhaps more, the custody of members of the community, young people, etc., and that this is done in a professional way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u69	The President reiterates his mildness, but he is glad that it is Icelandic.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u70	A respectable president. I thank the senator for his appointment, and I give him the pleasure of waiting so eagerly for this assignment to be carried out on the Board of Directors and Control Committee. I think I only need to review the creation account of the text that the senator slids about. The original idea was that I wrote a text that the General concluded that Aldus's door was opened to me when I was directed to a candidate on a Senate resolution proposal and when it comes to this, the President of the Generals may be the natural candidate. Then, when it comes to planning a program that offers education on democratic participation, this may not be quite an expedient way to plan a new voter's day. This simply means that the president is responsible that everyone is employed and that we are not just talking about the group of young people, the experts in the affairs of immigrants but also us, to ensure that the political parties working here in their homes, because the main weight of this program is to be carried out by elected representatives. This is about the fact that we are inviting people to meet us at our place of work to do so, as it were. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson said earlier, showing that there are flesh and blood people here, even with good evil. I trust the Committee to review this and see if anything needs to sharpen the wording, but I think the meaning is very clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-26-11.u71	Mr. President. I thank you for this objection or for explaining where the case came from, why it's put in the way it is. It sounds to me that the speaker of the case is completely open to the fact that this is being done in the best way possible and then on the committee.
