ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-51.u1	Borist has received a letter from a marine economist and agri-gri-gri-gri-gritary minister asking for a written answer. 441, about the number of law-employed employees from Karl Gauti Hjaltason.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-51.u2	Mr. President. I recommend a proposal for a hearing of approval for the continuation of General Assembly meetings according to Article 1. 23rd par. The constitution. The suggestion is as follows: ▪ The General concludes to agree that meetings will be postponed from December 14, 2018, or later, if necessary, until January 21st of 2018. The motion is self-explanatory.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-51.u3	Mr. President. I can't see better than I can see. The government has a great deal of difficulty in applying government laws on public finances and the bill that is now to be elected is an example of this. The agreement between reserves and funds has become completely different from any government law. This is to agree, if the administrative sector decides, things that are not temporary, not unpredictable, and not inevitable, and should have been expected in programmes and in budgets for 2018. There are still things that are truly unpredictable and inevitable that should be dealt with in financial terms, such as the global population growth in the Southnes and the medical problem of serving the citizens of Southnes. [[The president calls.]] We're not going to fail, but all other issues that should have been included in a plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-51.u4	A respectable president. Piranha have a revised proposal for budgets that are about exactly what it is, that the budgets that do not pass the laws on public finance are simply destroyed. It's as simple as that. Yesterday's discussions showed that there was a set production of public financial laws, but there is no such thing in the law itself. There are several articles that have a specific induction process, such as the annual reports of a minister, but nothing about not complying with official financial laws. Positive voices showed that now is the real induction process. I look forward to seeing the seriousness of that matter in the coming financial plan and budget of the next year.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-51.u5	A respectable president. We believe that government laws violate government laws, 26 par. The law. At the same time, we feel that neither an adequate review nor an adequate analysis was made of whether or what would be involved with the law's regulations that it was indeed an unexpected, inevitable, unpredictable, nonsurpassed payoffers who could not have responded in a different way. It's obvious that inside the budget, there are factors that are exactly like that. They are neither temporary nor unpredictable, unexpected, nor could they have been dealt with in any other way. So we'll support the Pirata's budget and we'll vote for the budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-51.u6	V.E.G. President. We now vote for the 2018 budget bill. I think it's important here that there's a decrease in spending as a proportion of money in historical context. This on its own suggests that we are on the right track to reduce the use of funds, which was originally the goal of a government law. But at the same time, it is important that we rather use the instruments of the law, I mean the transfers of lawsuits, the use of the products of the lawsuits and the general reserve, thus increasing the efficiency of funding, and reaching the goal of reducing the amount of funds. That is what general agreements are on the move. The budget and the 2nd district was clearly treated. It is also important to complete a Regulation in accordance with Article 67. The law, including the law. on the conditions and use of the general reserve.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-51.u7	Mr. President. I think we on a budget agree to try to do better each year in terms of public financial matters, as mentioned in yesterday's discussion. Now this has been the first time that has passed from beginning to end, i.e. From government policy to finance with the same government within the board. We are always on our way in the right direction, but of course we need to do better. As mentioned above, the anomalies are small, they are 0.7% of primary expenditures. They were around 5% long, so I think we were on the right track. I don't agree that all of this is foreordained. We even took. In what we thought would clearly belong in the reserve, which was 25 million. K. a donation to the National Theater and a member of the labor force. We are on the right track, but of course we can always do better, and that is what we will do.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-51.u8	A respectable president. I would like to, like my associates, to the greater part of the budget board, to state that this is a very small variation. I've achieved a lot of success here, and I'd like to commend all of us for that. I'd like to thank you for having a good time playing cards. Last night's discussion was very frank about what was still needed to be improved. All of us agree on this. We're getting results. Thank you for your cooperation on the budget board. Our commanding officer in a financial committee has shown that he is as good at the budget of the budget as in the soccer field. I look forward to making money for the next year, we've achieved our goals. It's very important.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-51.u9	Mr. President. The central category believes that funding should only be used in emergencies where reserves have taken the place of budgets. Clearly, there is a serious problem with the bill being in harmony with the laws that apply to it. It is very important that it be corrected. There's the honor of the Generals at stake.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-51.u10	A respectable president. This vote is about the church meeting. It is our recommendation that this matter be canceled here and that it will simply have to go to the courts to settle this church meeting. The ministry's comments have left no idea what land and quality have replaced this agreement. If there were a court case, all the evidence would come forward and we would know how much the state has obtained for this agreement against the pay being paid for that which has so far been 42 billion. A church committee in the early 1990's concluded that church property is measured in about a billion. It's about 3 billion, just according to an index, to compare it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-51.u11	Mr. President. This bill suggests important changes in the direction of increased transparency when it comes to political financial parties, including the U.S.A. by publishing a full annual account publicly, which is just another. It also requires that political, elected representatives and candidates are not allowed to participate in the release of material or advertising without their names, which is the first step in fighting political movements against anonymous propaganda in connection with elections and political struggles. In addition, it is required to publish the names of all the agencies that provide contributions for political activity, which is also a new word. Then it is decided to set aside a foundation for all political parties that attend the General Assembly to balance the situation between small and large groups. First and foremost, I want to thank for the good work done around this bill and the solidarity that has developed in these changes, which I hope will be the means of strengthening the activities of democratic political movements and improving their operations and increasing transparency, which is an enormously important goal.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-51.u12	Mr. President. The reason all political groups at the General Assembly agree on this bill is the need to promote the working conditions and independence of political organizations, promote democracy. In the United States, fewer members of Congress have fewer employees than the rest of the North countries, and well, political groups have lower budgets in Iceland. Reduced funding reduces support for innovation, evolution, and the expertise of political organizations. In addition, this is a very strong and superior position in the legislature and is the bill in recovering that position. The bill also aims to increase transparency and balance positions regardless of the size. As a result of changing categories with more and less categories, it is necessary to secure the framework of smaller groups so that they can care for their democratic duties. I also think it is very important that these are taking the first step in combating hatred propaganda, anonymous and negative propaganda, and attacks in political struggles. This is especially important in a world where social media become more important in this struggle.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-51.u13	A respectable president. This bill is a great improvement for the government democracy in Iceland. By means of the bill, we add small categories and thus increase equality between older and established classes and new and smaller categories. That includes some improvements, including some. the translucency is increased. We more fully trust the management security of local elections, simple and clear rules on political contributions so that members cannot easily place too much money in groups, and we say they are required to publish annual accounts and so on. It is wish that as many people as possible see the opportunity to participate in political activities, either in existing groups or by forming a new group. It is essential that the International Parliament and the countryside take their place as the most diverse group of agents. Political groups need to be luxuriant from day to day to deal with elections, and monitoring of them needs to be clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-51.u14	A respectable president. These are crucial measures in support of Icelandic and Icelandic books. This operation will support literature in the country by reimbursement of 25% of the cost. This operation is entirely new, and I am convinced that it will mark a turning point. It is a unit of complete approach to environmental protection. I thank the Commission for their well-work, and particularly the cooperation of two advisories, the financial and economic services and the Ministry of Education and Culture, as well as the scope of agreement on this operation. I am convinced that it will only bring benefits to the books and people of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-51.u15	A respectable president. We support and support literature because it has value in itself. We strengthen literature because it enables us to see ourselves in it. We see an Icelandic life in all its variety, its beauty and its horrors. We strengthen the literature because of the growth of one small book so many other things that are good and positive. In this way, Icelandic literature was a great help in building up the country's reputation after a collapse. Mr. President. Books do not come naturally. Books are not beautiful flowers that naturally grow, but they need a healthy book market and a healthy business environment. This bill will hopefully help that happen.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-51.u16	V.E.G. President. We now vote for support for a publication in Icelandic. We appreciate the book, we love it. It was a pleasant subject of discussion. However, the purpose here has greater appeal to our language and culture than to the specific support it provides in publishing. A book, though, is one of the most important features of Icelandic culture, and its value in protecting and supporting the English language is undisputed. By approval of this bill, we established a support system for the bookmakers with reimbursement of 25% costs to meet specific criteria. This operation is part of the Supreme Action Programme. A minister of education and culture to develop and develop Icelandic language, to promote locks and ensure that Icelandic will continue to be used in all areas of Icelandic society. Thank you for your solidarity. The General and Education Committee on this operation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-51.u17	President. The purpose of this bill is good. It is primarily an increase in English and reading. This is not the best way to do this, but it is wise to try to increase access to books, to encourage reading. Other methods are more efficient and better than these. However, the Summits will support the changes made on the bill, and most of them will improve, but in the whole of the case, they will be yellow.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-51.u18	A respectable president. I'm a writer and I'm a member of the U.S. Editor's Association. I was promised abduction of money tax from books, just as in the Golden Age of the Icelandic language and literature, when calfskin, ink, and contractorry were all without merit tax. It was promised to me, and it has not yet been fulfilled. Well, it's not the first time I've been betrayed for campaign promises, but it's funny that we should go a different route than most other countries in Western Europe. I can't believe it's so complicated that when other nations have done it, they'll cut off this worth tax. There was only one gang that opposed it. He's winning a great political victory here. In fact, it's less part of the way this is going to go, but it's over because one category of this council seems to work, and the team of cooperates does not seem to have the courage to stand up for him and the system he's built up. I'm going to vote against this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-51.u19	Mr. President. The way we vote here is the way that has already been over and over, and is considered a more effective way to support the Icelandic publication than to change the worthy tax system. We need to support Icelandic editions, where there has been an enormous recession in the past ten years, about 40%. It is the responsibility of the Generals to deal with an article that is a basic piece of work for the English language, and to take action in some way. I believe this operation will make a difference for a national edition. The New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures, published in Icelandic, is a fundamental factor in our continuing to think and speak in Icelandic about every aspect of society, apart from the importance of fiction itself. Then I'd like to commend the General and Education Committee for setting up Tinna and Ástríki and Lukku-Láki Louka into the Committee. I don't remember seeing those members of a committee party before, and it gives evidence of a very creative use in the Icelandic language. [[The president calls.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-51.u20	A respectable president. I'm on it. It's a step in the right direction. This is not such a complete victory that you might expect to experience a very gross review of the case. But this is a step in the right direction. I just want to make a mistake when it comes to implementing electronic methods in the Senate. Also, I would especially like to justify the importance of taking into consideration technical considerations, and speak from experience as a programmer. When you begin to introduce some good ideas without showing respect for the fact that technology itself is needed, you often experience an accident that is difficult to make up for. I wanted to mention it specifically because there is something that comes up over and over, here and elsewhere, in society's institutions. But as I said before, I support the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-51.u21	A respectable president. By legally establishing these fine principles, we are moving even further into the vast, digital fields of the electronic and digital world. This requires great things for us, but it also contains many opportunities. Is there any reason in this regard to encourage the government to implement even more declared targets for identifying and advertising jobs without a location? In this, there are many opportunities. Public work has been reduced in many parts of the country, and there is a way to build up knowledge in designated areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-51.u22	A respectable president. This issue is like a number of cases dealing with alien laws and related laws, both bad and good in it. I will vote on different regulations according to events and refer to reports and the opinion of the greater part to explain it each time. There are different issues here, which I believe are enough information on in reviews to identify where the attitude comes from. I'd also like to make this decision, because I'm going to be sitting by the end of the case as well as in any of its terms, that enforcing does not mean ignorance or inconsistencies, it's a more complicated ballot than that. I want to mention it because sometimes it has been considered to be that way. As I say, this case contains both good and bad things, and often it is not possible to vote with or against.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-51.u23	A respectable president. The reference to the Red Cross to this bill shows that he considers two changes that are burdensome for candidates on international protection. On the one hand, there is a change that the president and vice president can decide alone for a revelation or the granting of a warrant on the grounds of humanity or special ties, whereas this is the adjustment proposed by Article 3. where there is a second requirement for preaching the interview So I'll sit by you.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-51.u24	Mr. President. The bill that we now vote for leads to some changes in the recent laws on foreigners needed to carry out them and to defend them in the treatment of agreed objects is clear and transparent. As soon as there is a change in the case arrangement, there can be a quick and clear discussion of the more part of a General and Education Committee, which is about to make a change, to consider both the reasonable and the humanitarian aspects in the processing of the situation. It is also a very important point taken from all the details of this bill, i.e. that there is a warrant to issue a living permit in Iceland on the basis of a humanitarian principle. That's what I think is extremely important and will support this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-51.u25	President. This is a review of the changes in foreigners'law on the Schengen information system primarily. There are several factors that are very critical, and it is reasonable to conclude that the standards of the individuals mentioned in this system are worse or that the suggestions are, in any case, not to improve them. That's why we're going to stay with the Yellow on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-51.u26	A respectable president. There's a list of additional clearances to share information on children. It is in accordance with the opinion that these matters are best for the children. However, speaking of the sharing of sensitive personal information, I would like to justify what is stated in the Committee to address the issues of this committee, which are listed in the greater committee's list of ways in which personal protection laws should be handled, as well as that they should only provide the information needed to make decisions, and of course, out of the child's best interests. I wanted to mention this because the sharing of sensitive personal information must always be carefully examined. But in my opinion, it was carefully examined enough, so I support this law.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-51.u27	A respectable president. I decided I wouldn't accept more of the General and Education Committee for the release of this case. There were simply some things that I needed to think more deeply about and discuss with other people. But after that discussion and speculation, I have concluded that it is desirable to support this matter. However, I would like to state that this case is of nature that there is no single sacred answer to many of the questions we have to ask ourselves when we decide these things. I still think these laws need to be in place. Of course it has to be somehow. We want people to regain their civil rights at some point. I just wanted to come up here and say that I don't think anything strange or rule out that this would be revised from other reasons later on, and we'll probably take that discussion when it comes to it. But it has to be in my opinion, so I will support it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-51.u28	Mr. President. This bill suggests that the removal of a person's reputation will be made permanently from a high government decision as well as the removal of conditions for a job or office that the person has unsecured or has not been guilty of criminal action that may be viewed as shameful for public opinion. I think it's a very good, very important thing. We in the left green shall vote with it. I would like to mention, though, that this bill is determined to eliminate the laws and conditions of unsecure reputation. However, we in the General and Education Committee believe that there is good reason to direct it to the Ministry to continue reviewing the appropriate conditions of various professions that hear under their legal circumstances and to consider the matter in a larger context thereafter. But the bill we're talking about here is good and true, and that's what I'm supporting.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-51.u29	A respectable president. I'm glad we're voting on this matter, which began with a convocation treatment in the council over a year ago, to counterbalance a change in the arrangement called delinquency. I call attention to the fact that this is a major morphological adjustment that we agree to here. The entire treatment of the matter, both the treatment of this bill and its treatment in the context of it, has raised legitimate questions and concerns about the conditions that the law would like to perform for various jobs, offices, and normal jobs in the public. I'm right about this bill, of course, it's not a pre-requisite endpoint behind them all. However, these issues do not depend primarily on the Ministry of Justice but more on the Ministry of Justice. I encourage the Lawgiver to continue to think on these matters in a larger context, but thank you for cooperation with the Parliament on this bill and on its conduct.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-51.u30	A respectable president. I recommend a board of committees on bill to legalize various laws due to law No. 90/2018, for the protection and processing of personal data, from a greater part of the environment and transport committee. The commission received information from various members of the local community, local taxpayer, the Union of Icelandic rural society, the Roadmaker, the Percontinental Protection and the National Constitution of Iceland. The bill suggests minimal changes to be done on the law to improve under and after the events strengthens the improvement in the processing of personal information at the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs. Processing refers to action or order of action, whether carried out automatically or not, where personal information remains, including collection, registration, use and sharing, as per Article 3. Law on Personal Protection and the implementation of Personal Information, No. 90/2018. The bill does not suggest a change in the size of existing institutions. With 2 st. The bill is a general guide on which Member States are obliged to provide electronic information via the National Institute of Internal Affairs, if possible. The Commission stated that with the provision of the National Institute for Information, the National Institutes of Internal Affairs was the basis for providing information to the extent needed to enforce the legislation on the National Institutes of Innovation, No. 54/1971. It was noted that it was reasonable to suggest that the information of the strains was limited to information collected by means of provisions. This would be in accordance with the current National Institute of Internal Affairs to require tax authorities to require information on income and property between parents' cognitions and average opinions. The review of Internal Affairs stated that the Agency did not see any prerogatives that its authority for information would be conditioned by the collection of provisions. The more important thing is that information collection does not exceed what is necessary. So puts some more of this thing on for a change of 2kr. the bill that information provided by the designated institutions should be provided by the National Institute of Social Affairs due to the collection of Member States. The committee also made comments on Article 2. the bill on currency, i.e. It would not be clear whether a price should be provided to the institutions which may result in the submission of data. The majority of the expenditures apply to the specific requirements of the individual organisation. They came up with a view of 2 g. The bill would be given too extensive information to process personal information, as an individual's approval for the Agency's information collection would not be required. The majority feel that approval is generally an important basis for the processing of personal data, so it called for a Persian protection in this respect. The Agency pointed out that, in certain cases, it is not acceptable as a processing document. As a result of the processing of the personal information carried out in order to collect pay as cohesors, it is reasonable to assume that this collection of information is supported by clear legal requirements rather than by the approval of an individual involved. The committee discussed the provision of Article 4. on Iceland's National Publications Index for the implementation of personal information. For the Committee it could be concluded that in a very limited number of cases, the quality of health information could be of special importance because of the national records, especially those of a woman who has approved of assisted reproduction techniques on his wife, as a parent of a child on the basis of 1 mg. Section 6. Children's Law, No. 76/2003. The Committee stated that there are other cases where a national registry needs to work with health information, e.g. at the location logpoint due to illness according to Article 9. Law of Law Hall, No. Twenty-one, nine, nine, and eight. 2 / 15 Do You Remember? 6 / 15 80/2018, which goes into effect for the New Year's. Then the Agency has a warrant according to Article 15. a Track No. 100/1952, for an Icelandic citizen's right to request a DNA test and a DNA sample for research. The majority agree on the need for Iceland's National Registry to be authorized to process health information in order to perform its legitimate role. The majority also points out that it is not an unregulated source but is always set aside in other laws. It provides a clear guide to the health information involved. The European Union pointed out that rural governments carry a legal role under national and public registration laws, No. 54/1962, but according to 2 st. The law of the Council of the United States, as well as the National Constitution of Iceland, has been implemented into the public record. Achieving such development is the building of the different national files designed to abide by the national law on Iceland's National Registry No. 70/2018. It is necessary to ensure that new laws about personal protection do not violate this role of rural society. In view of the greater part, it is important that rural society is able to perform its legal functions in this respect but also that such information and development do not exceed what is necessary. So the rest of the section suggests that after 4. The bill comes up with a new article that says that rural society is permitted to process personality information as the registry of Article 3. The law suggests the purpose of performing its legal function under the law. In the 10th. The source of the economist for the processing of personal information, including sensitive personal information on the disability and development disorders of individuals who enjoy the services of rural society and about the needs of students who need expert assistance in basic rural society, as well as other such information, in order to carry out their legal role. The character protection criticized such information, but the Agency considers it to be a vague analysis of what personal information can be done that it does not meet legal requirements for carrying out such information, as v 71 st. The Constitution on privacy and 2nd Figures 1. 1 1. Law on Personal Protection and the implementation of Personal Information, No. 90/2018, as is b-join 2. mg. Count 9. Regulation (EU) 2016/679. The majority agree with these views, suggesting that a word in Article 10. A greater proportion of the provisions for legal and home law, No. 80/2018, Count Four. The bill, in order to ensure that a national record can carry out its legal function under the law. On January 1, 2018, the law on legal homes and residences is valid, with the exception of two regulations that take effect on January 1, 2020. One, 3 mg. 2. g., states that a legal home should be registered in a certain apartment or after an incident in a house, on a certain street, or in a rural area, registered as an apartment in the Iceland State Book and has a place. The committee noted that delaying this provision might allow a legal home to be registered in homes other than an apartment home. The delay of the execution was solely to be recorded on a designated set-in. In order to correct this and ensure correct registration, a greater proportion of the items contributes to a provisional law that is then valid for 3.mg. 2.g. 1st January 2020 In general, it says: There was a suggestion that the concept of transportation can better be used than for highways in parance 8. The bill involved in changing the laws on the road structure, transport infrastructure, No. 120/2012. The road is assigned to care for all means of transportation that depend on its laws. Today it is mostly highways, but it is also landy. If so, the possibility of future changes cannot be excluded. So the majority suggest a change of 8. the bill in that state, as well as the slight changes in legal nature. The majority state that the necessary adjustment is to meet the requirements of new personal protection laws but, in the opinion of the greater part, it is vital that an individual's rights be strictly maintained. The greater part suggests that the bill will be agreed with the adjustment made in a special Senate document. Hv. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Bjork Brylfóttir, who is an executive of the case, is absent from the field of service in a foreign country and is thereby debating the case from a committee but is already under the authority given in 4 mgr. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Under the majority opinion, Jón Gunnarsson, Roa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynjolfsdóttir, Trausti Trari Guðmundsson, Jón Þór Þorvaldsson, Linika Sævarsdóttir Saevarsdótir, and Vilhjálmur Árnason. A respectable president. I suggest that the case be referred to the 3rd.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-51.u31	Mr. President. I recommend to the Committee of Overseers with a change from memory of the Environment and Transport Committee on a bill to correct the change of various laws due to the role of personal protection and the processing of personal information. As shown in the case of what? The candidate was on this matter for much discussion at the Committee, and a smaller part of the Environment and Transport Committee suggests a change due to the discussion that took place there. Two. The bill is required for a change of 9 mg. Section 5. the Act on the National Institute of Internal Affairs, which is aimed at granting legal legislation to the Agency to provide personal information, should be used in support of its legal activities. Among the persons that should be sent, the National Institute of Segregation, if the bill is legal, is a prison facility and rural society. The personal information that these parties will provide will be relevant to the Innovation Office. Punishment and economic and social status of individuals. In my opinion, in these cases it is such sensitive personal information that it is reasonable to require that public relations are not transmitted unless the approval of the person involved is established. The memory section suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following modification: We're on 2. And a new proverb shall be added, saying, Yet the office of prison and council shall not be told. Case one. unless you have the consent of the record. I'd like to discuss these reasons and explain the arrangement because there is no room for a cohesor, a parent who is obliged to cooperate with his child, only in exceptional circumstances. It should not be charged with decommissioned persons, and then the Internal Relation Institute is authorized to look to very difficult social situations when it comes to the collection of cohesion. This does not mean that the individual will be completely excluded from cohesive activities, but the Internal Affairs shall take into account very difficult social circumstances. Both are involuntary actions for a cohesive partner and suggest the greater part and the bill we are about to vote for afterwards is granted permission to ask these two agencies, the Prison Institute and the Social Services of all fellow workers in the country, for very personal information on all the co-workers of the country. We can picture situations in which a parent, who is also a cohesor, chooses to serve his sentence without having all eyes focused on it, just wants to pay his dues and not be excluded. Such situations may exist as well as the circumstances, and are not likely to be, that a cohesor - let us say that there is a small rural community abroad - would not possibly want all local employees or local management agencies to know about the cohesion payment, knowing that a child's treatment should be paid. This is the information we need in the memory section where the person should be allowed to determine for himself whether to attend. As I said before, both measures are done, i.e. to call for social information and whether the individual is in a decommissionment, for the benefit of a co-worker, and therefore, there is a tendency for a cohesion to avoid paying the pressure or to get some kind of compromise because the person wishes to do so. He is asking for a compromise in this legal obligation to pay a favor with a child or with his children. At the beginning of the penalties, all prisoners go to interview, and it shows whether the person has children, whether or not to pay support, etc. In that interview, it is easy to get consent, that the person will simply sign his consent that the inside office may call for this information from the federal authorities. This interview always happens. If the person does not wish to provide the information, he or she will also not receive an exception from paying a covering, so that it is only the person in a sentence that chooses both, that is, not to receive an exception from the payment as well as to choose not to carry the information forward, that it is allowed to be so relatively timed up that he or she is in a penalties. In our memory, it is the sensitive person information that the individual is to be hired by the person who is to be informed about it. The same thing that I've previously established in a difficult social situation, of whatever hurt they may be, if the person in such situations would wish not to pay the pressure and give them permission to call for this information, but not so that the Internal Affairs would only have the authority to look to them for information about all the cohesies in Iceland. It's just that we think it's too extensive. That is why we make the previously mentioned adjustment, 2. And a new proverb shall be added, saying, Yet the office of prison and council shall not be told. Case one. unless you have the consent of the record. However, as always, the Innovation Office will provide information on pay and salary.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-51.u32	Mr. President. I'm reporting a committee party from what? The Environment and Transport Committee on the Management Board for the Management of Agriculture, this new bill. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by 11 guests, and I'm going to refer to their names in the opinion of themselves. There were also 12 reviews of the same number of sources, and I'm not going to read them up, but I'm going to review the main points. With this bill, we have older laws No. 17/1965 on land protection, decontaminated, and in a new bill is the focus of the law, including taking into account new challenges. It will be discussed as to what should be considered for the protection and sustainable use of soil and vegetation and the recovery of ecosystems. Every five years, it is expected that the minister will issue land healing programs until the age of ten. It also suggests that regional programmes will be used to promote speciality and focus on national areas. In order to ensure the best sustainable use of the country, a regular assessment of the state of the country and the effectiveness of agriculture is expected to set the standards for sustainable land use and to implement a national reform strategy where agriculture is not sustainable. It is suggested that the implementation or land use of a significant degree of ecosystems, vegetation, and soils should be replaced by the recovery of comparable ecosystems. Furthermore, the role of land healing is laid out in the land because of land healing, on the other hand in the State and on the other hand, in the private property that the State has in charge of agreement with owners. The objective of the bill is to protect, restore, and improve the resources of the nation in vegetation and soils and ensure sustainable use of land. It is best to say that to the Committee it was a general pleasure that the law on land healing was updated where there was a great need to renew legislation. The views presented to the committee the right to establish a comprehensive set of laws on soil and vegetation. The Commission points out that this bill has been in preparation for a long time. Farming, protection, community affairs and tourism The law contains many reforms for older laws but does not plan to make any basic adjustments to the legal requirements for e.g. Agriculture, such as in the field of mechanical management, and for the cohesion of land healing and forestry shapes. If such changes are desired in society, a wide discussion within Congress and outside and policies is needed before it can be made. For the Committee there was a point of view - now I intend to explain the key changes in environmental and transport opinions and some comments or encouragements - the need for regular monitoring of the land's state to contribute to the protection and sustainable use. Was there, including Refer to the agreement of the so - called Grodels, the assessment of plant resources that are supported by the Directorate of Professional Road and Neomechanism, the National Institute of Farmers, the Government, and the National Association of Sheeps. It has been aimed at providing a regular assessment of the state of the plant and soil resources of the country and to explain the change and development of sustainable indicators for the implementation of national plant and soil resources. The committee agrees that it is normal to add target 2 gr. it is important to have a good view of the condition of the country so that appropriate measures can be taken when necessary. So the committee suggests that a new number will be added to Article 2. who require regular monitoring. In the 5th. The bill says that a minister is in charge of land - healing procedures, but land transplants monitor action and care for daily administration in the area covered by the bill's regulations. Other activities of the Agency include to encourage participation in land healing. The committee explained that it was good to enhance the role of the Agency in working on land healing and to encourage it. The committee takes the above and therefore suggests a change in the 5th stragg. The bill is consistent. At 6. Article 24 shows that five people oversee the design of the programme. The commission is to have the most efficient consultation with economists and professionals in its preparation. The committee felt that it was right to add the sentence to 1 mg. Section 6. for a land healing programme, which would improve targets of land healing and soil protection efforts, by saying that such a strategy will contribute to improvement in soil protection assessments. For the Committee it came to the opinion that the provision of sustainable land use would need to be improved so that recovery would be required in cases where innovation has taken place. In addition, the assessment of land use and conditions of the country had to be taken into account. The Commission agrees that sustainable land use is a key source of land healing and recovery of ecosystems and land quality. So the committee suggests a change to Count 9 and 10. the bill aimed at meeting the above indications 12th degree. The bill discusses the involuntary use of agriculture and agriculture programmes. 3 mg. The law states that if unsuspecting land use is to be attributed for housing rights, land healing should request to the local administration that it be decided on by the owners of the livestock to have it committed throughout the year or within the particular part of the year. The committee feels that it is important for the government to agree with land healing in such cases and thus contributes to a change of 12. the contents. The committee held the view that the expression "provided " can affect vegetation and soil at 1 mg. 13th par. It would be too general and easy to interpret to the point that it actually accomplished most of its projects and would be too burdensome. The Commission stresses that there will be no increase in organizational misunderstandings and thus contributes to a change of 13. The bill. In addition, the Commission makes a special point that in reviewing nature protection laws, there are generally counter measures for ecosystems to be implemented. 14th degree. The bill is a process of shutting down and retrieving ecosystems. The committee was told that it would be necessary, in exceptional circumstances, to land in the custody of the required state. The committee takes the lead and suggests a change in parsity 14th. the management of such areas of land healing should be determined according to the occurrences. The bill suggests the removal of a law against crime by means of five regulations in VI. section of the bill. For the Committee, there was a perspective on the need for clearer priorities in defense of land violations. Proliferation of land mines is required at Article 15. The bill. The State's agriculture pointed out the importance of the lawgiver giving clear instructions on the priorities of land delinquency that the Agency could follow. The committee agrees with the views and rights that priorities need to be considered as the primary objective of the bill to stop the destruction of soil and vegetation. So the committee suggests a change of 15. The bill makes it clear that cultivated land, crops, and other vegetation should normally have priority at ordering defenses against land fragments caused by water so as to match. The committee was told that there is a need for consultation with rural communities when protecting against crime and is taken up in several articles of the bill that carry a number from 17 forward. The commission found criticism of the amount of day - to - day fines, as stated in Article 24. it is permitted to be placed on the inside if the person does not comply with the appointment for improvement within a certain period of time. The maximum day ticket is 500,000 bucks. daily. The committee points out that before the pressures of day's stress, reproof must be given and improvements must be made as needed. Then the commission points out that, as shown in the report, the method of forcedness of other laws goes beyond that of other laws. Marketing Authorisation of the European Parliament, No. 1 EU Member States of the European Union, No. 6/1986, and nature protection law, No. 60/2013. Forced procedures of land healing will be considered only in cases where pricing measures of other laws are not applicable. I've been explaining the most important changes and emphasis that come from what happened. Environmental and Transport Committee. There are 14 formal modifications made to the bill. Some have to do with wording, and others have more to do with material, and that is already the case. Mr. President. This is plain to see that the committee counts this as improved by the bill and suggests that the bill will be adopted by the changes proposed in a special Senate document, the 14 that I have mentioned. Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, an officer of the committee, agrees with this opinion. Hjaltason Gautiç signing this opinion in advance, which attracts the amount of the day's pay in 24 C.E. ...of the 25th paragraph of the legal penitentiary. and the dilatation of the land healing programme at 23rd degree. Under the pages of December 13, 2018 Jón Gunnarsson, vice president of the United States, Sævarsdóttir Trausti Guðmundsson, Executive Director, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, Helga Helgadóttir Helgaóttir, Jón Þorvaldsson Þóldursson, Karl Hjaltason Einar Einarça, former notice, Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, Lunika LíneikAnna and Vilhjálmur of the Árnason. Mr. President. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-51.u33	A respectable president. I'm here first and foremost to thank you. For the transport of the greater part and to express support to the majority opinion, an executive, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, for the transport. By means of the land - healing bill, it becomes a major turning point, replacing 50 - year - old land - healing laws as well as the work - treatment laws. Land transplants in Iceland are very important for us to preserve the land's natural resources, but land healing is also important on a global scale because over the years we have built up knowledge that is useful elsewhere in the world where desertification is a major problem, especially in Africa to be mentioned, but also elsewhere, Central Asia and elsewhere. Here, however, these nations have gained knowledge through the United Nations School for Agriculture. It is widely available, including for the United Nations, the U.S. So I was able to get to know each other through conversations in my visit to them in the fall. However, land healing is not only to protect the resource, soil and vegetation, land transplants are also very important in climate matters, for when soil plants also release very much carbon into the atmosphere, the carbon that is bound in vegetation. I'd like to look through the bill for a second. First, there are goals and comments. That's Il. A section on agriculture management and plans. There is a land - healing strategy to plan land healing and to coordinate land healing with other natural protection programmes, forests, strategy, transport plans, and other programmes. Therefore, it is important to have extensive consultation with such plans. However, this strategy also provides different goals for the recovery of ecosystems, as the objective needs to be related to how and whether the land will be used after it is established. Sometimes it is simply enough to bind soil in some way and then let nature develop. In other cases, the goal could be to build a pasture area, to build a forest that can be protected, e.g. Volcanoes and ash falling, and so on. Then there may be the goal of building a land that can withstand the disturbance and companionship of people. Like what? The head of the committee introduced the view that all laws responsible for the protection of land resources should be contained in one law code. In part, I agree with them, and I have often done so. But it's a long-term project, and I can also understand viewpoints against it, since we also need to think about the law so that people, at least People who work by the law, which is easy to approach, can find land - healing laws, nature protection laws, or forestry laws. The length of the long, large, legal columns can often be heavier, harder to find. However, it is very important that the Council be aware of the importance of their forestry legislation, land healing, nature protection, and other environmental concerns, i.e. that there be good harmony, not repetitions and overlaps between the laws, but they draw close to one another so that a clear overall picture, though at least the stakes were Still separately. Then back to the bill as it is submitted. III. This section is for the support of land healing. IV. This section deals with sustainable land use. It is moving forward, as technology goes on, to assess land quality and the impact of land waste management, the effects of the use and tolerability of tourism, etc. There's space to move forward in the evaluation and administration that this will make possible. Chapter V is about protection, recovery and support of ecosystems and VI. The chapter protects the land. Wall. The section covers negotiation, dispensing and sale of land - healing areas. An authority came up with an opinion subject that had to do with it earlier. Finally, there is VIII. The section on various principles, such as validation and change, that will be carried out concomitantly with other laws. As I said at the outset, I support the bill and the assessment of the environment and transportation committee. I feel that this is a very important milestone that is about to take place now that new land - healing laws are approved.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-51.u34	A respectable president. It is indeed a turning point when the Council begins and changes laws that are now 50 years old, I do not talk about when it comes to such an important case. We know all the developments that have taken place in these areas since the country was built in which we have fought in recent years with a great and difficult struggle to restore land, stop and establish land use in areas that have blown up, and cause both of them to fall out of use with the related effects in their area and in many cases on people's habitats inhabitants. It is certainly a milestone that strengthens the environment of this important institution and frames its vital role. Over the past few years, we have been successful in working on deforestation and recovery of land in culture and practical conditions. But we can do better, and this certainly is a critical point in cooperation with the governments now in power, making even more efficient when it comes to agriculture and forestry. This is what we believe is our obligation to achieve, to bring this country into a better state than has been developed over the centuries. So, figuratively, let us take this step now. It is very important in this context not to forget to mention those who have been the main partners of land healing and in many cases of forestry when it comes to healing the country, partners and rural society play a key role there. It is introduced in the bill we're doing to frame some cohesion. In recent years and decades, a great and powerful cooperation has been developed between land healing and farmers. Of course, it is not only a matter of interest in making the land, but also of enormous interest to landowners, who in most cases are farmers. This project has often been called Farmer to heal the land. In that case, land healing comes in upon providing seeds, fertilizer, and such; farmers set up land and work, all their resources. This is especially true of the projects in which the results are very measurable and clearly evident throughout the country that has led to certain developments in the seminary. This should be a celebration, and at the same time encourage increased cooperation in that field. Farmers are used to not calculate a high hour's pay for their work, myself in that position some years ago, and often doing some self - sacrificing work just in the interests of their soil and the land they used to accomplish. They have shown their interest in these matters that they can be trusted. The interests are obvious, and there is reason to encourage even greater cooperation and advancement in this regard. With such a course, a much wider and more efficient approach is sure to be possible. The same is true of certain amateur societies who are ready to assist in matters like these. There are people who are eager to do a great deal of self - sacrificing work in behalf of the country and the nation. There is also reason to encourage looking to such things, for giving a rim often can be done by giving a little help from the public. A volunteer's somehow married to our small community in this large country. We can see this in many areas. There is reason to mention this, to encourage such cooperation, and at the same time thanking the great work and self - sacrifice that has been done. We are also present on the Committee's new bill on the Forest and will be delighted after Christmas permit to work on that subject. It's a very important case, a little the same as what we're dealing with here. The same argument again. I would like to use this opportunity to remind you of what was done at the council a few years ago and I would have liked to see things go further and, as if having full faith in the future, that here we are discussing these two cases on the committee, of the same hurt, which is in two institutions. A few years ago, a conquistador proposal was adopted at a council meeting on the expansion of forestry as industry. They suggested and approved of a large group of senators to unite these two organizations. I'd like to use this opportunity to mention that I believe that such a step is practical, timely, and able to contribute to the litigation. Clearly, there is a lot of cooperation between these institutions, and I think it's going well, so you have to celebrate. But I think if we had this on one hand, our perspective would be clearer and the results might even be better. I encourage all concerned, whether it is the Ministry that deals with these matters or the institutions themselves, to promote cooperation, but especially whether there is no reason to unite active workers in this field. I want to finally, a respectable president, thank you for your cooperation with the Committee on the matter. We had a short time now to finish this. With a concerted campaign, it succeeded. I'm thanking the spokesman for the case, okay? paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, for holding this tight and finishing up on our last record.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-51.u35	Mr. President. I recommend a commission on bill change of law on the preliminaries' contracts and Senate costs, with subsequent adjustments. This is a bill on members of Congress and assistants of the presidents of political parties. The nominee comes from the whole board of administration and monitoring committee. The committee discussed the matter and attended the hearing of Helgi Bernódusson, the office manager of the Generals, and Þórhallur the son of Vilhjálmsson, director of the General Court. The bill suggests a change in the law on the contracts of the General Assembly and the cost, with subsequent changes, in terms of the members of Congress and the heads of political parties. It is suggested that members of Congress be hired according to the budget provided for each year. The bill is part of a plan to support the General Assembly and its work. Its purpose is to provide additional assistance to members of the council and especially to those without direct assistance. Parliamentary members will perform various preparatory work for members of Congress, e.g. to assist with the collection of data and commissions, as well as with non-consistency contacts on behalf of members of Congress. The bill emphasizes that the members of Congress have the greatest freedom to decide the work of the workers. The Committee discussed the rights and duties of members of Congress, but the bill suggests that they do not possess laws on the rights and duties of the personnel of the state in terms of the advertisement, such as 7. par., a reminder, compares to 21. ., and retirement due to the charges of an employee or a broken job, as measured by 44th and 45th. The committee stated that this is suggested because of the nature of the work carried out by members of Congress. Other standards of staff law are expected to apply on rights and duties, such as women and men's rights and laws on how to handle work. The Committee noted that decisions associated with these employees and that they have working conditions, including retirement, apply general guidelines for the management of public authority, including the need to take care of objective viewpoints. The Commission believes that the bill is designed to strengthen the General Assembly and members of their professions as well as to improve the quality of the legislation. The committee proposes that the bill be approved. Under the committee is the editor of all the board and board board of directors, the one that stands, and also Bruddar Níelsson's son, Óli Kárason Kálísson, Líneik Sævarsdóttir Savarsdóttir, Jón Steindór Valdimarsson, Þóri Sæmundsson, Þór Ólafsson, Kolbeinn Otcarsson Proppé, and Þórunn the Egilsdóttir of Eliils.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-51.u36	Mr. President. I'm representing a case on the deck. Seven hundred forty-nine, bill to legalize citizens' rights. I refer to the Council on the names discussed here. These are 26 persons added to several children. It may be noted that civil rights are being passed to considerably fewer individuals than were done by e.g. last time. This is close to a third of that number, or even a quarter, which will be clarified. Because the council and the committee, homb. A global and educational committee, trying to get better around these things, where the trend has been for several years that this way of obtaining an Icelandic civil right has been changing from what the law on this project assumes, that this is an exceptional way to deal with special cases in being a relief or a shortcut to this conclusion. Therefore, the General and Education Committee and the Supreme Court. Minister of Justice, and then through the National Institute of Iceland, being revising these laws and how to make proper changes in the law on this so that they can control their original objective better and to provide them with the possible access to the administrative level of applications in order to reduce the number of those who come to the General Assembly. It's the long way for 300 applications that came to the General this time, and they see in their hands that this is at least 300 applications. not the way the law originally expected. So, in a review, we expect a new or changed law on these subjects to have come into effect when this is next considered in the council. But this suggestion is available. The committee suggests that the 26 candidates who are found in the aforementioned Senate will be granted their citizenship this time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-51.u37	A respectable president. Nature is our biggest resource. To the resources that others need to care for. Our natural resources are many and varied. A large percentage of the tourists who attend Iceland will come to see Icelandic nature. It is the organization around the natural resource that we are going to discuss here today, the resource that is the basis for our largest export work, the tourism. Therefore, it is important to discuss what organization we use and what control tools we get up to protect and preserve this important resource. The big question is also how we use this resource to improve the quality of life in this country, as well as to ensure the well-being of domestic and international tourists, to ensure the construction of infrastructure and development of habitats, and to provide greater resources for a strong welfare community. The natural bulbs that attract visitors are numerous, varied, and widely distributed throughout the country. The property of the land where they are located is a wide variety of forms, but the places owned by government are subject to different laws and regulations. These include national parks, a peaceful territory, nationalisation, farms, or general land that may be associated with a number of other peoples. In addition to the wide range of state property arrangements, circumstances vary from place to place, different from local infrastructure, local tolerability, and the degree of limitation for natural examination. We need to shape our policies and plan how we are going to meet the challenge of protecting our environment, while at the same time using it for the benefit of our citizens. What I wanted to discuss here today is how we will achieve our goals with a clear, transparent organization that serves as our best guests, our country's living, our economic, and our community all in the protection and use of our natural resources. There we need to ask if we will establish a uniform organization for different territories or whether the organization needs to be a few, whether everything is done in cooperation with all the advisers involved in this, the institutions, and the operators, or who thinks about what they hear. We need to ask ourselves: " How do we want to keep operating and sharing in limited quality? What will best contribute to sustainable use and sustainable development and infrastructure in these areas? What quality and security requirements do travel services or occupations that visit or work in and at public tourist attractions need to meet? Negotiation requirements, etc.? We are certainly not at the beginning. The majority of these challenges have been taken in our three national parks, the Þingalval Nation, the Lakejörjörður Park, and the Snæfells of Israel. The park's leaders are now working closely together as the Lakeland park wins its professional policy that will be ready for spring. Job policy is important for so many tourist attractions, such as those in the parks, where one to two million tourists come to each of the most crowded places within these national parks. It is obvious that such an application calls for answers to questions about reimbursement, corporate employment permit, quality of the services provided, environment, access control, infrastructure and sharing of limited quality, e.g. ... withexports. This is where I've been most concerned with nature and land. However, not all the cultural, historical, and cultural backgrounds in those places too and the importance of these places in each community should be forgotten. Therefore, it is important that there is a great deal of cooperation and consultation between all professionals in this regard. Finally, though, let us not become overly concerned with finding one state's solution to all the challenges for all places at once, and the cooperation and agreement will be so much that there will be no single policy development or decision. One thing is clear, though, that there is only opportunity in front of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-51.u38	Mr. President. I'm gonna let myself do more than answer the inquiry and participate in the discussion. But I'd like to start by saying thank you. Vilhjálmur Willmimimi Árnason for requesting this discussion on employment policy in public tourist areas, focusing on access controls, the distribution of limited quality, sustainable structure, security and quality requirements etc. In recent years the main focus on tourism has been on infrastructure to protect nature and improve safety and survival. This we know, this has been done by the tourism fund and now, last of all, with a new long-term national structure strategy for tourism protection. This has made a difference, but the work is not finished and needs to be done even better. Thus, these projects are expected to be made up of over a billion dollars a year in the coming years. Compatibility management of public tourist attractions or management is not present at this time, but the principle is that the public is permitted through the country according to the nature protection laws on public rights. For count limits, it can be said that certain devices have been placed in the toolbox, although not used. As a result of changing the law on Lake cold national park in 2016, professional work within the park became permissible and a change of traffic law in 2017 resulted in a number of mass - flung tourist areas, which could provide a new way of managing pressures more effectively than is now being done. I think it takes more control, both protection and innovation, in the light of the ever-growing tourist traffic. You're absolutely right. A senator that there's no one state's solution and I wanted to say something with a what. A senator on this matter. I'd like to mention in particular that there is no one state's solution in these toolboxes, there's no one state's solution in payment or control. This is a number of ways in which we can use many tools. And I want to agree with what. Of course, a senator also has to be able to move forward, and all of this is taken in steps. If we're going to swallow it all at once, we're gonna have to wait a long time. That's why I've been a spokesman to try to do a certain project, they're coming up while we're working on it, because something else is always waiting, which can affect policy and so on. There is an important work in this field, e.g. A review of the terms of the public rights of the Environment and Resource Ministry and the work of the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs to shape a special contract due to the use of the state for employment purposes, as well as the work of the work now being done, and I'll be right behind it. With a well-defined provision for special contracts, the State may gain better opportunities to regulate structure in a more efficient and transparent way, where appropriate, and such agreements may be aimed at achieving the aims of the government on sustainable tourism, improving the safety and survival of tourists, increasing quality and other goals. In New Zealand it may be possible that there have been successful patents as a protection and control device and have been supportive of the expansion of the transport services there. Obviously, it would be desirable to achieve as much harmony as possible between this work and the individual areas at the same time, which are developing a professional policy like the Lake Earth, and I hope it will be possible. Newly developed national policy plans are then important to travel policies, and hopefully we will see them reflected in rural planning plans. Organization is one of the most effective control tools to identify and control the different resource use targets, job development and environment. • ensuring that transport services in the national organization are systematically planned, defined which areas should be able to receive a large number of tourists, and which areas will be maintained outside the alpha pathway. It may be that I mentioned here in this hall not long ago that it appears to define the ideal places for travel, which is one of the tourism projects of Veterans, and that is now considered in the Department of Professional Road and Neonization. It gives us the opportunity to expand much of what has been mentioned, to put it into practice, and then to develop. It is also important to consider an important work at the Management Board, a environmental stress assessment, infrastructure, and community with a large number of tourists. The results of the first stage of this massive project were presented at an open meeting in Harpa this morning. A seventh score of values now being set has been defined. This will be followed by a stress evaluation, which will prepare a new national travel policy but will also be useful in assessing the endurance of individual tourist areas. So, finally, I'd like to mention, too, a new travel agency law that goes into effect for years, where everyone selling organized trips in Iceland will be obliged to set security plans and will be monitored by a travel agency.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-51.u39	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason for setting up this matter, as cases have been discussed for a long, long, long time in Icelandic society, and yet there seems to be no conclusion. Today, however, tourism is a way to build up, but it remains unsolved how to stand up and support the operation of these same destinations. To form the destination of rural society, there is a sad fact that only a small amount of money will be available to them. Mr. President. Iceland and I sometimes get caught up in finding the simplest and fastest solution, but I don't think it's necessarily the best way in this case. Of course, there are a number of ways to go when we are paid off and we met, for example. look to solutions used in the United States and Canada to regulate access and earn income. This would be the best way to build one government system that could do both, i.e. control bioavailability and raise income. Such a system could be developed in stages, but eventually there would be a system that could look to sustainability, tolerability and income levels, as well as ensure a positive survival of visitors and minimize their negative effects at the destination. In this context, I think of a vivid description that I recently heard of the concept of self-sustaining, i.e. that sustainability can be compared to a three-foot chair. Unless all aspects of sustainable, economic, environmental, and social sustainability are observed, the chair obviously does not exist. There is something that we always need to keep in mind at a chamber, almost no matter what we are discussing, how we guarantee all aspects of sustainability, and, of course, especially when we are discussing travel services and the use of natural resources.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-51.u40	Mr. President. This is an important discussion and should be thanked for it. We're here to discuss specific aspects of travel service, i.e. Job policy, and, in fact, it is clear that the basis for policy development is sustainable. The article is looking in that direction now, but I think that tourism is not yet sustainable. It is particularly relevant to the environment and nature component and, as there, social failures are involved. We need to recognize that position. Of course, closely linked sustainability is the range of resistance that has been applied here. We need to identify the standards for sites, for sites, and now we have a lot of pressure on natural quality. That's too much pressure. The same applies to communities in some places and elsewhere. Mr. President. It is time to consider the national and community barriers and, therefore, the access control. It's not a vacation jumpway up to 5 to 10 million visitors a year. This is not to be controlled by the market alone; community goals and equilibrium must be much more taken into account between natural values, social values, and protection. That's a big job because we want a variety of jobs in this country. Air castles and stretching economics are not supported, as is WOW's road, and a professional policy should be characterized by the following: sustainableness and all three aspects of it, professional tolerance analysis, and sufficient safety of the guests and employees, an open process for job tenders. The surfaces should be based on equality and, in the light of agreement, should be carefully monitored for activities.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-51.u41	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason for starting this special discussion today. I'm kind of glad it's busted up. Since 2010, the number of tourists has increased to over four times as many in the country as possible, and it is clear that this land was not then prepared to receive a large number of people. Therefore, it is important to shape a comprehensive policy in these issues, e.g. how tourists can be received throughout the country Travel sites have come to the limit of many people's endurance. The distribution of tourists across the country has to be supported by targeted measures and budgets for the development, development and presentation of less intensive areas and areas in which air management is more effective, as well as by international flying. Earlier in December, the first international flight of winter at the Akureyri Airport is aimed at transporting 4,500 tourists from Britain to Akureyri, with a direct winter flight. What a fine development this is in the tourist service in the north of the winter! Since we are equipped to receive a number of tourists, it is important that we do even better and build up what is needed in Akureyri. Tourism is a burden on Iceland's economy, and all infrastructure must be strengthened. It is important to ensure cooperation with stakeholders as well as to support national law enforcement and health services. I want to end up here and say I'm the highest. A minister to the gratitude of that subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-51.u42	A respectable president. We're welcome to have all the talk of construction in tourist areas today. Finally, you might say. We're dealing with way too late. The first step in the whole structure of tourism is very simple; agriculture, active monitoring, and the possibility of a quick response to the various events that may arise. It has been shown in various Member States that agriculture is one of the most important pillars for sustainable use in tourism. A tourist's budget was a small problem, all the money that was put into it earlier did not go out of various Brazilian obstacles that prevented the setting up for the fund's success. It was naturally very unfortunate in that regard. Ironically, this refers to not finding just one state's solution to the state, so the solution that was tried did not result from the Brazilian problems that the State actually put on itself, so to speak. It was technical obstacles that made it difficult to get involved in the success of this much - called solution. I simply welcome all the policy and structure in this field and, as I say, once before.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-51.u43	A respectable president. I welcome this discussion of employment policy in public tourist areas. paritaprevir Will Árnason took the initiative. In fact, I had personally considered taking the initiative to discuss such matters. This debate is urgent now that the resource use in the country is becoming ever more diverse and new subjects are coming up. The resources and quality of tourism are limited resources, and to build employment opportunities at such locations, we need to discuss methods to determine who will be able to use the opportunities and methods to set conditions or fees for the use of quality. Enlightenment of the situation must be essential to innovation, and some of its tender tender tenders must be the basis for a license to use the quality of tourism. The budget for the use of the resource is not necessarily cashed and must not be considered as the main focus, but it must be used by those who can demonstrate sustainable use of priorities. Self-sustaining applications include: the knowledge of the resource to be used, knowledge of resources, knowledge of the activities to be built up, conversation with the community around them, and proof that security and quality requirements can be met. Sustainable structure does not merely connect with natural resources or memory. There's also a question of sustainable society. Especially should it be noted that there is an opportunity for a full - time home and that jobs are organized so that they are suitable for people living and moving in the community next to the destination. It is often critical when large companies enter a rural area anywhere in the world that organization is suitable exclusively for those who serve temporarily in the area. Thus, this is not to be done in our travel services, and most of it is done by public authorities. [[The president calls.]] The structure and knowledge of the local people, education, training and scientific knowledge provide sustainable structure. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-51.u44	Mr. President. I appreciate the voter for a good deed. This reference is never too often measured, and it will likely be in the future. I'd like to start with that as a boy. paritaprevir Will Árnason and the highest. The minister would discuss, both, that in this large solution we have no one state's solution. I totally agree with that. On the other hand, we need to make sure that those we believe are well equipped to make matters happen. That's where I am, for example. talking about our communities. As the situation exists today, they, many of them, will have no reason to benefit from promoting tourism in their country. They have no special benefit in keeping her out, but this financial impulse is missing, and then, for example, I am. talking about deciding which share they have and what income the tourism will leave in their territory. It is important, and we must not, in the long run, make up the long run so that they are responsible for building up and protecting, and to impart knowledge, while material benefits will then take on something else. The fact that there is no sustainability is quite obvious. I think we all agree that we need some kind of control, that's also the issue. We're a little late, surely. We went from becoming an upcoming tourist service country that would have to be careful to become it all at once, and then we sat a little behind. We wanted to be careful. There's one thing I'd like to warn you about, and it's that we're gonna be so late, and we may be late for it, that there's a right to the use of nature. True, there are certain places in our beautiful country where certain members, hardworking and zealous people have made themselves aground, built up there. The question is, Do they now have that right? Is that just the way it is? It's certainly a pretty powerful subject, and I'm done with 10% of what I wanted to talk about. [[The president calls.]] But there's time and there's some advice, and I can't wait to hear more discussion here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-51.u45	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur the Árnason for this discussion. I want to take it from another point of view. I'm still asking myself, "Why aren't we taking calls? Why have we not begun building a much better situation? But what I'm more concerned about is the access of motorists to tourist destinations. Sad to say, Lenska is that it always wants to be forgotten. It will always be the back, and there is also concern in the context that there seems to be a tendency even to violate laws and rules about the availability of disabled people, especially those in wheelchairs, places, travel sites, seahouses, and elsewhere. What you may often be afraid of is that this looks like a lot of things, it's like everything is there for the disabled at tourist locations, but it's forgotten to get those disabled individuals who are supposed to use the situation to test whether things work. In many cases, they do not work. We need to realize that when we're getting tourists at tourist locations, we're not just getting a single group. We're not just getting perfect people. We're getting the whole thing out of here. We are under obligation to make sure that everyone is able to make good use of nature, not just the chosen ones who can travel in two as quick and easily cross but also those who are in wheelchairs or on crutches or who need special assistance in order to reach and enjoy nature. They need to be in on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-51.u46	Mr. President. It is certainly important that Iceland put one consistent policy on employment policy, i.e. ... aboutcharging. If that were to happen, I think that in spite of everything, one individual would still be responsible for such a system, for it would always be quite complex. However, it is important to be clear who is responsible for carrying it, and it is also important that we make sure that we make our income all the way to the destination where they are made. In this regard, consider the experience of national parks in the United States, where all income comes directly to the parks itself and, more importantly, to the destinations and national parks that earn less money. Here, then, it would be necessary for the Kingdom to continue in a handsome and handsome way, in order to build good, delicate structures before its destination, where a considerable amount of money is still needed to make them acceptable. However, there are other factors that need to be considered, as if for example, in the case of private property, how to obtain payment at destinations. Another factor we must recognize is that it may be normal to limit access to individual destinations, both to protect individual nature and also to ensure guest survival. In this context, I would like to suggest a film at Grand Canyon, U.S.A., where there are about 5 million visitors every year, which means thousands of visitors every day. It is available for all to avoid payment, however, to walk down to the canyon and stay at its bottom require special advance permission and are set in order to take care of both nature and the survival of the visitors. Similar routes have gone around the world. Mr. President. Indeed, there have been significant changes in modern employment and in society, as it does in a short period of time. As we have often seen, tourism has become our largest industry. These changes involve not only many opportunities but also threats. But as with us Icelanders, it is not desirable to have a professional policy based on that we all put our eggs in the same basket, because if they break, it's the public that has to pay for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-51.u47	President. I'd like to come on only other factors but I've been in this fine discussion so far. I feel like we're all here. Senators, I'd rather you agree. The 11th talk in such a talk tube may not add much to saying what we seem to agree on. I want to approach this case, i.e. Public tourist attractions, based on climates. Since I am a self - centered man, I recall that I have sent in an inquiry to at least two ministers, and the third one is due to the highest level. Secretary of travel in public transport areas, in this case in public tourist areas. It is clear that we need to take major steps when it comes to transport energy exchange and to help fight climate. I think the government is there in a very strong position to be able, for example. Set policy, not just the fine policy we have set for no new list of automobiles to fossil fuels in 2030, but also that after a set number of years, buses, services, and equipment are simply not allowed into these public areas unless they are driven on eco-friendly fuels. Such a course would always have to be set years ahead of time so that employers, the companies responsible for this business, would have plenty of time to adapt to this changing policy. The magic number for the years when I'm not involved, it would have to be done in collaboration with the sector, but I think that such steps would be very good in building up the good policy we have on climate. There we have the means to take progressive steps in cooperation with the sector.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-51.u48	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Árnason the Aarson for starting this conversation, and I can't help but hear that there's a concordance in the motion. Councilmen are to be welcomed. The distribution of tourists in Iceland may not have been good enough, i.e. Not organized. The main level of access has been at the southwest corner, near the Cheflavaví airport, which is just part of the work of the environment and transport committees now attacking the development of transport, both the roads and the construction of national airports and airports in the country, which would also be the result of international flights. It would be a factor in equalizing this distribution. In addition to the increase in the number of tourists in polydiversity and natural bulbs, it is a natural cause for rejoicing for the economy as such, in which respect it needs to be carefully organized and taken into account by nature. In order for such a thing to be planned, I think the currency and access control are something we have to do to build up the infrastructure. It is well - known to accept a price for bioavailability to nature, and particularly because nature is fragile. Although nature at Hawaii e.g. may be different from us, but it is sensitive and there is a price taken for access to nature to examine it. No one really makes a comment about it. This is simply the individual's fee or contribution to sustain nature. The natural environment in which foreign tourists and citizens come is a limited resource, and therefore they need to be associated in a responsible and sustainable way. We are to expect ourselves, the state's demands, and the bodies of the people who run tourist attractions to make the uses sustainable, without interrupting individuals or legislators who are zealous, rather giving them guidance for good works and for the good of society. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-51.u49	Mr. President. There may not be much to add, in part, in view of the fact that the discussion at this point might have been better at home as a verbal inquiry about this difference in shape. There are a number of things to discuss, but I feel that the matter is a good procedure within the consulting process that you might wait for some suggestions to be offered. To get to the point, however, we are talking about how we actually run things like national parks. In such a way, business arrangements need to be staffed and the need to be determined by the quality and security requirements we make, even in cooperation with stakeholders, and it needs to be financed by enough people to do that work. Perhaps the main and most important goal for workers of national parks and other public tourist facilities is to nurture nature and protect the safety. If a park has, for example, a park. lack of human resources to protect the safety and to ensure the future nature of the park's role is simply not fulfilled. This is something I expect to be set up with a board of highland parks, and I'm waiting in the middle of a highland park so we can work to put half of the earth aside, not just in Iceland, but in many places, for nature. It's like access controls that come in again. Soft roads would be better than hard ways. It's, for example. It's better to try to control more planes, to aim for more locations and such. [[The president calls.]] But as I say, it's been rather well discussed, and I believe it's in a good way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-51.u50	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir This special discussion of employment in public tourist areas was followed by Vilhjálmur the Árnason. I'd like to thank the highest. Industrial and innovation minister and travel minister, Þórdís Francis Kol Kolbrún Reykfjörð Gylfadóttir, her information and input into the discussion. Travel services have long been important in currency, but now in a relatively short period of time, a few years, have become one of the nation's basic fields, whether it is seen as the commercial and valuable creation of the land or the pursuit of currency. In this rapid growth of tourists in recent years, we have been dealing with the development of tourist facilities, how we earn money, build business, and protect the quality desired. We want to do it in a sustainable way. To do so, we need some measure of the limit, some degree of tolerance. Of course, this varies according to what kind of quality and service we are discussing or what the possibility of remuneration is. As clearly indicated in the highest report. Ministers on tourism tolerance vary according to national parts and the distribution of tourists across the country. For a long time, our goal was to cover the demand for a longer year, out of traditional tourist times. The task now is to build up a service so that tourists go beyond just right here in the Southland and around the capital area, thus achieving increased efficiency in building up with improved organization and control at their destination and into the top of the world. The impact of tourism is economicly positive for national preparation, but its effects are more complex and unregulated, they can be negative. It can be environmental, cultural, and social negative. There has been lack of research, but there is an improvement in policy development and increased research, and it is effective as this discussion has truly proved.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-51.u51	A respectable president. We're talking about mass tourist attractions. I believe we also need to talk about the small ones. I was traveling through the West last summer, and I was terrified of how often a disaster occurred because tourists were stopping to take pictures of nature. They're here to take pictures of nature, but there was no cover fire on the high ground where there was a paradox. There were perhaps two, three cars, and a lot of people who crossed the road. It is very simple to make a situation so that it does not end. Therefore, we need to be more secure in small places, and then we also need to make sure that when these larger places are built up, there are very good conditions for the disabled, as I have said and now repeat. It often seems to be a failure. According to recent judgment, e.g. No building regulations can be met unless the United Nations Convention is legally validated. We have to be careful that when people are being treated for situations, especially those who need help like disabled persons, there are no rules and laws that can be broken just because there are no other laws that have not been approved. We must always comply with the laws of the land that are in force so that everyone can enjoy nature regardless of mobility and the rules and laws are respected.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-51.u52	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much for your objective and careful discussion on this important subject. This discussion was primarily designed to present the viewpoint of the body of Congress and from different categories and to see what vision the Parliament has in this work, which is certainly far and well along. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy came in and more. The discussion presented many interesting and many good things. One thing I want to consider is that it is very important that in these matters all the motivations of the locals, the motivations of landowners who know their territory, know the best of the history, and know what is best for their territory and what works and what doesn't, that they as well as free partnerships, outdoor groups, natureists, and others have some incentive to increase the knowledge of their positions, increase access to them, strengthen the interiors needed to do so. Then I'd also like to give a good example of what we've done well, that's in the Þinga, which is naturally one of Iceland's largest tourist resorts, more than 1.5 million tourists a year. Access controls are under way. It has been included in the collection of special incomes with parking fees, toilet fees, and so on. It has been successful in building good footpaths, protecting the area, increasing education and knowledge for tourists, for tourists, for school groups, and for others. When such a tourist location has the opportunity to improve its bioavailability, the bioavailability of motor disasters is also increased as well as at the same time. It's just a good example that if you deal with the situation, make a policy, and have the guts to go to the access controls, remuneration, and so forth, you can do good things and you can come into all of this together. I just want to thank you for having a good discussion, and we're going to take advantage of our opportunities. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-51.u53	Mr. President. I want to thank you for this discussion. It's been a pleasure to hear this intervening intervening harmony, whether about what we're doing or on the way we're going. Of course, there is much discussion on sustainability and the use of limited resources as well as sustainable. It's basically all we do, we're trying to build on it. This is the red thread throughout all our assignments and all our approach. There's a lot of fermentation here. I liked it as a boy. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason came in with the National Parks. In a sense, they have been leading. There are possible reasons for this and possibly for that. Someone better than me to tell you about it. But there are national parks, e.g. has been using these tools for a considerable period of time and are now making wise use of them. All of this takes time, and we need to consider further what more tools are needed because they are very different and very different in different locations. Only on the basis of specific marketing ideas. Now called at work, she will complete her status report, but it is generally desirable that the members of the organisation who are working at a number of different jobs, according to the job opportunities so that the frame around the job is uniform. These are often the same questions: Is there a need for multiple limits or direct controls? It is desirable, then, that similar views be fundamental. Is there a need to limit the number of people involved in employment? What are the limitations of the individual areas? If an area is suitable for specialisation, how long must the contract be made? That's when we come in for debates. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, mentioned earlier, where are those who have been creating valuables for a long time in some place, and those who want to get there? There are major questions that we will discuss at the council. [[The president calls.]] But this was a good blow to come.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-51.u54	V.E.G. President. I'm coming up here for an e-mail we just got here. I'd like to see if it's the President's will to give us a 20-minute break to review the mail material.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-51.u55	A respectable president. If the highest. The president is prepared to recess the council to discuss the contents of this e-mail, I don't think it's a reason to trace its contents here at this moment. But if it's the highest. The president believes that such matters as those mentioned in this mail can be resolved at the end of a meeting without discussion, of course, we need to make significant comments. So I just want to reiterate it to the highest level. President that we are ready to discuss this matter and how to handle it, but it is absolutely impossible to ask for it from members of Congress at least The members of the Central Party, that the matter mentioned in the highlighted mail here will be passed through without discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-51.u56	The president wants to inform us that there is some misunderstanding about that matter. It was to be made clear in the committees to all members of the body that all members of the council were required to make a recommendation and to bring it to the committee. No further action would be made on this matter until the assembly ended Christmas break. - This meeting is postponed for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-51.u57	The president would like to state that the case that the President was handing over will not come on the program for Christmas.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-51.u58	Mr. President. Nice senators. I'd like to specifically introduce to you some adjustments made as a smaller part of the Environment and Transport Committee have been presented in this matter. This is a slight change in the bill of approval by a cohesor, however, that the NTSB can call for information from the branch office on the other hand and the community service of the rural community. We believe that, as the bill has been completed, there is too wide a source that the National Institute of Social Affairs, which has a body of cohesion to do in the bill, is able to call for information on all cohesion workers in Iceland, absolutely independent of agreement from these two institutions, i.e. Prison Department and local community service. This is the sensitive person information that we believe is of utmost importance that the cohesor himself has to agree that such information is provided, end the individual's being allowed to keep such information to himself if he chooses to. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-51.u59	Mr. President. I am, with a bang. paritaprevir Helga Helgadóttir, of this minority and this change. I'd like to say that in addition to what was presented. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir, that this bill's aim is to substantiate and strengthen the improvement in the processing of personal information so that the current rights meet the obligations of new personal protection laws. The bill has made a number of good changes in the management of the environment and transport committee, but this remained in our opinion. We suggest the minimal adjustment to ensure the right of the members of the room. Hv. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir handled the matter well, and I'd like to encourage the Senate to accept this adjustment proposal. It affects only this group, it will not affect the goal of the bill. We must be careful not to take too much steps in the realm of a person when we are changing the law and trying to fulfill these new laws of character. So I'm asking for support on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-51.u60	A respectable president. I'm on the same line, but I'd like to add that, in general, there's a warrant to collect personal information about those who pay support and others. In fact, it is authorized to collect personal information about all involved, whether or not they accept it. Whether the general personal protection laws stopped in this regard was not considered well enough, although it states that only personal information can be collected if there is a reason for it. But this is still permission to collect information, e.g. the management of those who accept treatment in this case. There's a certain interaction that was not well explained. That is why we Pirats support this change, but in other matters, we sit on the same page.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-51.u61	A respectable president. I support the opinion of the greater part of this matter and its adjusted proposal, but I would like to promote it here that no authority is being expanded from what is currently available. We must always remember that although there is enough authority on the law to receive personal information, the Person Protection Act is always and goes forward. There must always be a clear purpose in the processing of all personal information. Thus, this source, as presented here, can never be universal.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-51.u62	A respectable president. I wanted to come up here and say that this case was handled very well on the committee. Both Peritoneal protection and the members who cooperate with the personal information involved were addressed. This warrant is available in the law today. It is so that agencies to work with this information are not making unnecessary debts to the individuals in question, which are different difficult to reach and other factors, without my going deeper into it. There's going to be an injury to those involved, or adapt to their circumstances. They were well considered on the committee. Therefore, I will stand by the opinion of the greater part unchanged.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-51.u63	Mr. President. I would like to draw attention to the fact that this is a special law, and I encourage the Senate, especially the greater part, to lend this proposal of the lesser part of the vote, although only in one matter before Christmas, to accept a sound and reasonable proposal. Because this is a special law, it must be clear that we do not share sensitive personal protection information unless it is clearly stated in the law. I pray to the board of directors: Join us in this proposal. It's a simple, clear change. The lack of unnecessary sensitivity to personal protection is being sharpened unless there are clear agreements.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-51.u64	Mr. President. I come up here to correct what was being said. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir. The Personal Protection Act is certainly valid, but this is a special provision for the Agency to obtain so much information from the Prison Department and local community social services. I'd like to explain to you guys the situation. A prisoner may be in a penalties, and he still wants to pay his dues, even though the law says he may not have done so. The prisoner may not want the details of his presence in prison to be widely distributed, that the collection agency is asking for it completely without his consent. The same can be said of community service. There may be a resident who is cohesive but may not want the workers of the town office in a small rural society to know that a child is being paid for by the person. This is such personal information that the co-worker should be allowed to determine whether or not all the employees of the office know about the child. [[The president calls.]] It's just the way it is. It's just sensitive personal information, and I ask the Senate to think about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-51.u65	A respectable president. It is not as if this bill was generally viewed as trivial to the committees. It has a personal protection to do and personal information that various government institutions need to consult in order to perform their legal function. Of course, the matter was repeatedly reviewed and the main assessment is that this law will not be determined in a way that is being proclaimed on the part of the section. This comment was not made by personal protection, and it was given to the commission strong evidence that the adjustment proposal presented here simply did not work out. It's too long to get into some discussion about it right now, but this is the situation. On the basis of this, the major part suggests that the result will be the result of our committee visit.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-51.u66	Mr. President. As we all know, land healing is one of the most important components of agriculture and carbon balance. So it was important to make up and modify these old laws, 50 years of age, and now it has been successful after a five - year career, but, of course, it will be better to do so later. I'm gonna take this opportunity to thank my colleagues for the ride. The Environment and Transport Committee for the Cooperation and Cooperation of the Committee and urged all members of the Parliament to support the bill for their final payment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-51.u67	Mr. President. I come up here to thank the Environment and Transport Committee for a successful job. This is, in my opinion, a very important step towards agriculture. It was time to go through the legislation properly and see how we can do better in the protection and sustainable use of soil and vegetation, in the balance of carbon and in the recovery of ecosystems. At the same time, the role of land healing is being strengthened, and I think it's very important. Steps are being taken into the modern world. But first and last, it is important that we take this step on the journey we are going toward a new and hopefully a better future. This is good.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-51.u68	Mr. President. I support this bill in my mind, and I'm glad that the law on land healing is revised, but I signed in advance. The warning is that I am unhappy with the fact that the authority of the Agency is being removed as much as it really is, as is common among the institutions today. I don't like it, and I think it's hard to see and, in fact, too common in the administration. Then I'm talking about the guilt that's being given to land healing to 25. The law. I am also unhappy with Article 24. where the daily fines of land healing are authorized to place on those who commit fractures are far too high, 500,000 dollars. I feel too busy there, and I also feel that land healing is given new projects, as stated in Article 23.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-51.u69	Mr. President. It was supposed to be about the vote, I was a little late, but it doesn't matter. I was just going to express my satisfaction that this case had come a long way, finally, because the purpose is primarily to increase the quality of the work we do here every day. First and last, I wanted to thank other members of the council for our cooperation in furthering this matter. It is not always simple when discussing classes of approach. But especially, I would like to thank the staff of the Generals for the work it did. It is natural with the context, so I thank you for the excellent cooperation that was achieved in this matter, both by members of the Parliament, by members of the council, and by the members of the General Assembly.
