ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u1	Borist has received a letter from a health minister asking for every request to provide a written answer to a covering query. 882, for contracts on health care, from Hanna Katrín Friðriksson. There have also been two letters received from the financial and economic secretary where request is made to provide written answers to panel requests. 727, on the salary of the director and the government's management, from the Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson and on the deck. 917 of the government's Bank Office, from Inga Sæland.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u2	Mr. President. I would like to strongly protest the program published here for this conference, and I insist that the 11th matter be canceled. This is a macropolitic matter. It's talking about lowering the rate of less than 3 billion. The government does not trust to take the matter through Congress and here into the Senate Hall and let the members of the professional committee bring it in here. To be honest, Mr. President, it is putting the matter here on a program like a wet barrel in our council members who have worked with a specific agreement when it comes to Congress. They're breaking it corrosively. It's unacceptable. We will not consider this to be the case with members of the council and members of the council. The matter will not be on the program today. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u3	For this reason, the president wants to state that the matter is on the program for the council. The President's set up a program. With regard to the meeting this week, members of the council were assigned according to the custom of making their scheduled assembly for the week with the adjustment that it would be yesterday, not a convocation date. It was also covered with council members and prime committees on Monday. The meeting is fully in line with what was set up there, apart from the fact that there is still an unsurpassed proposal of the Minister of Justice on the Personal Protection Order to which a agreement was able on Tuesday night to postpone them and schedule them today. At the same time, it was known that there could be prime reports from members of the Parliament or a majority of the Parliamentary Committees and, especially, a hunting bill. When a body of members or more members of the Parliament or members of a body feel that they need to be held before the end of the council until spring, the president will set up such a matter. However, their outcome is quite another matter, that is, in the hands of the council. The president considers that there is a message that at least The majority of the members of the Parliament believe that it is necessary to deal with certain issues when it comes to basics and is therefore not considering the circumstances of the council now and that when a dose of the Senate is scheduled, there is a critical reason to protest that such issues are proposed. The second issue is how they are angry, as we know. Finally, the president wants to inform us that he has requested to meet with members of the council for lunch, and then we can review these matters better.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u4	Mr. President. By permission: It's an interesting day at the council. At the end of the season, an agreement on the end of the council is upset by the development of more part of the employment committee to still contribute to the provision for the development. In one day, without logic, without calculating, without explanation, the reduction of hunting costs to the carbons of 459 million. K. The top of the board sends a bomb into a sensitive position. - It's still unsolved. It's a transfer from Stagas Svavarsdóttir, the highest. Minister, July 4th, 2013. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I wholeheartedly agree with the minister. This is where we're watching it as if it were sliding the last yards through a retrospective decline of about 2.7 billion, which would be enough to raise the child's improvement by 30%. They may also be used to improve the quality of disability or to provide better housing for the family of the country's children. The government is about to show her which part was meant to be, and it's coming to the day. I don't care if it's the highest. The president insists, and if the part is right, we won't be able to bear it. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u5	The president prays that he will not keep up with the talk. He owes it to me next to you. A senator would have given him a little more than a talk lesson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u6	A respectable president. We are here on a program that is not in complete harmony with what we have worked after the past few weeks and months. First of all, I have to say that when the local election was completed, there was an agreement that a committee would be taken care of. I'm asking a president why not? Why, for example, have committees not been set aside? On the other hand, we see here members of Congress that are addressed to the issues that had been negotiated and set up here. These issues are ready for review. Is that not a deal? The majority of the powers right here at the council and in the government are now completely crossing over and ignoring all that the lesser part has requested and does not even respect the agreement made here a few days ago. It doesn't matter how we feel about the issues presented here, whether we agree with them or disagree with them, the thing is that this was not to be done by a respectable president. We had signed a series of conference events. Why is this not done? And why are the cases from the government that are ready for committees not finished? [[The president calls.]] It's annoying, and it's to upset the whole place.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u7	A respectable president. Here is another matter that will receive an abnormally uncontracted case, in this council, in the power of the greater part of the council, who promised to promote the General Assembly. The President puts in with what. paritaprevir Oddný'd like a Harðardóttir Hardydottte and say she's got the program right here, but I'd like less than the top. The order of the president is to consult with members of the council that were not made on this issue. This too will be the case with the Presidency Committee. I would have thought that when it comes to the program at the council, we would work at it together and maybe we could talk things out earlier with narrow political issues through 15 minutes before the end of the council without any agreement or agreement and all the contrary to what has been said.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u8	Mr. President. This case may have been passed on to the pro board, and it was passed through during record time last night, without the fact that all reexaminations were well enough. It was done in a nonsense argument. There was a great protest on the part of four members of the committee to protest that this would be done in this way. Things were offered to be done in a different way, which would be a normal step in reaching the minimum change needed because of what is now urgent. It wasn't done. This matter should now be conducted before all other members of Congress, including cases that have even been ready for months. It's kind of below all the caves. I'm waiting for the highest. The president of the United States, please, will stand by the council and work towards the natural enjoyment of things here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u9	Mr. President. This is an amazing situation in which a similar bomb has been dropped, as it has now been done by the majority of the employment committees. The government tried to force it through the committee with the whole committee being on this absurd case during the final days of the council. Everyone knows what kind of political bomb this is. I'd like to say to the head of the employment company, because it explains this, in that the development has reached the limit, that more people have reached the limit of endurance. Theoreticians have reached their limit of endurance. The health system has reached its limit of tolerance. Our roads have reached the limit of endurance. Police and others. Why don't you think about it? Councilmen left green on that one, right? Why is this so? Councilmen first think about the development, but are they still going to forget about their children's families and microorganism? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u10	Mr. President. In seven years, the prosperity of the fishing industry was 342 billion. Only in 2016 the profits were 55 billion. which is higher than any local fishing fee combined since 2011. One year's profits were higher than seven years combined. The 2010 crop was 66 billion. which, again, is considerably higher than all the fishing fees. Note that this profits and profits are due to the use of a resource that the nation has under law, not to a few companies or families. The wealth of fishing industry grew from collapses of about 300 billion dollars. which is 50% more than what we put into the whole health system. Therefore, it is remarkable priorities that left greens will be completed 15 minutes before the Senate to reduce the fishing expenditures at the same time as the group leaves proposals in this chamber that they should put an additional dollar in child care or in interest of interest. [[The president calls.]] This is a disgrace, Mr. President. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u11	A respectable president. On the welfare committee, a group of people had one subject. One issue is that the income of older citizens is not impaired. That case was taken away by violence and not allowed to come here to the council, clean and prepared violence. They were made sure that they would not even go through 2nd. I'm asking why. One thing. I think it's because there's a letter from the state insurance agency that showed up in black and white that this would be an enormous advantage for the government funds because it doesn't cost anything. Then we have a different case, we have these two issues, that's to stop paying taxes. It's missing on the committee. It's forgotten. Nothing's happened. They have been forgotten so that nothing can be done and they can't be done. These are two cases we have. They're making sure they don't get in here. I'm asking you, is this it?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u12	Mr. President. We stand here already under the General Assembly program, three more days are left in addition to this Senate Day, and it is all very upset. It's all upset because most things have not lived up to their word. I'm not surprised at who they work for, even though some have expressed surprises about it. But the highest. The president describes these practices as normal, that much of the committees could make that decision. Here, members of the government's stand have expressed their opinion of that method of action, and I agree with it. But let's talk about a lot of committees. The one standing on the environment and transportation committee. There, the government authorities have met for a meeting in more parts and are streaming out the political paraphernalia in the spirit of the one in which we, this group, were going to promote the Council. To you, on the board, I'm saying, "Defence of the Generals, just be ashamed of you." [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u13	Mr. President. All of us can be sure that such practices are unacceptable and not acceptable. A case that had been negotiated is fixed in committees, and now it is due to be set up for this bomb, which has been called here, where the right of specific bodies up to 3 billion dollars. The cases that are trapped, so that I now appreciate what we've done in The Gang of the People, are decommissioned by a vacation market that is about people's ability to promote their interests by working and by not having to endure any impairment. And we have a problem with the fact that the cost of hearing equipment and other relief devices needed by disability or old age is not calculated as income and that people have to put up with what they buy. I also mention that the Central Party has good language and other political groups. Hv. Councilmen of the left green who are using them take the lead in the welfare committee keeping the case of the holiday market from the Committee. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. This is completely unacceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u14	A respectable president. V.E.G. The president earlier said that if a Senate committee decided to handle a case, the president would put it on schedule. Then I'd like to remind a president that we have a case in the middle of the 3rd. who was appointed by the Committee, i.e. about election age. There is also a matter of digital carpenters on which members of each body are organized. It's not on the agenda. How, then, is it that a case that is trampled into a committee of zeros with no prior cause in the matter? That's incomprehensible to me. If the President is going to keep his word on a case called deliberation, I'm going to call at least one. by a case in the middle of the 3rd. Then let's go first.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u15	Mr. President. We have worked according to the order of this council and in other councils before that government or government matters take place on the program. The following are cases involving a perfect agreement in committees. The committee arranges for the case to reach 1st. Since then, we have agreed on Congress matters, so each party has got priority, three priorities, followed by a convention agreement followed by a series of conferences. Mr. President here presents a completely new order, which is that more of the committees can present themselves on the council program before everything else. I object. By introducing a new rule when there are three days left of the council, the President has upset the entire council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u16	The president would like to draw attention to the fact that this is the 1st case. with regard to the issues. Councilmen make it their subject, not their deduction. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u17	Mr. President. It is evident that the leaders of this government called for some misjudgment when they spoke of exalting the council and promoting the Council, as part of their policy goals. The council's schedule is in a state of anger, the lack of respect for the council has rarely been more. This is a last-minute stuff. When we should agree on how to complete a council at its appointed time, it is evidently based on the ambiguity of the Senate. I understand that the members of the council have been informed that we will be here any longer, even a little longer, without any discussion with the members of Congress. This particular matter would not even be accepted if there was some quality scale in the process or their preparation for the council, so it is a failure. The report does not contain a stone. It is also remarkable to see that here the government is going to turn down a substantial fishing fee but has not even the courage to speak the case itself, has not even the courage to bring in a government minister of the sea. [[The president calls.]] At the same time, as noted, there was no room to update the value of the standard of child reform and growth. Here, the first priority of this government should be to reduce fishing costs because of the poor supply of marine resources, which is considerably better than any other company in the country. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u18	President wants to ask why. Councilmen respecting deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u19	A respectable president. Indeed, it is worth the effort to witness that for the first time since I became a general member of this amazing career right now. I don't know what to say. I can't figure it out like that. The reasons for trying to run this bill through completely at a light speed without anyone having a say in the future. I'm saying, like my senator likes to do, I call it pure and clear violence. The evidence is that the law runs out on December 31, so we would just sit in an empty space four months with no fishing fees on the project. What kind of bullshit is that? We'll just put a simple adjustment into these songs. As far as I know, every legal book here is usually a number of pages of change proposals, and there's no problem. Then we can work properly and do what we have to do, helping SMEs who are involved in some business problem. This certainly does not apply to the large ones we know well.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u20	President. I wanted to say something. paritaprevir The Guðmundur of Ingi Kristinsson's House of Congress on the People, whose turn is to eliminate the loss of professional pensioners. It was a case that was actually going to be handled that way at the Committee of the Health Committee yesterday, that it should be referred directly to a minister. When it became evident that it could not be done without putting the matter out of the committee and then referring to a minister, a decision was made to refer it to a minister of some kind, because it was not at all to be taken out of the committee because it was then to be discussed. It was considered inconceivable to bring it up in the Senate Hall, to discuss matters that should not be resolved but should be taken directly to the minister. That's where this case is supposed to go and be taken into some kind of work that's possibly going on at the Ministry to consider reducing the decrease. Instead of allowing this case to come here for a general discussion, they were to dismiss this case, conceal it by some social accounting on the welfare committee that it would be possible for a minister, and should be considered when considering a review of this series. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's intolerable, it's completely intolerable.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u21	A respectable president. I'd like to direct that question to the highest level. The president whether he is not concerned about making contracts between the council groups or among the heads of the clans, but it seems that only the government is expected to negotiate with them. The government groups then stick to the contracts only if it suits them that day. Contract agreements that the cases of anti - held positions are taken out of the committees and that they cannot be maintained. But then we will see that events such as the currently discussed issue, the 11th on the program, are running through speeds of light with a variety of new rules and standards. This makes me feel that I'm only a little more difficult than it gets to the top. The President is about to establish some kind of contracts, but it would be if the government felt it was their duty to make a deal in the same way as the government feels obliged.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u22	Mr. President. Today's debate sounds like there's a lot of need for senators to have an opportunity to discuss the material fishing budget. A lot of what? Here at the conference board of presidents, we have entered a material discussion on the subject, and I don't think we have anything to do with the material discussion. Of course, there is a possibility that before the council goes home, it is inevitable for us to consider the matter in one way or another. It's like the highest. Today, the president has said that his decision involves taking the matter on the program to 1. ... but it must be revealed how it unfolds during the council. I don't think there's a reason for that. Because we have one way or another to deal with the situation, members of the Parliament work hard against it. We may have changed our views on this matter, and when the matter is presented, these opinions should be made up of discussions at the council and on committees. In terms of payment on the welfare committee, I have to say, of course, it's efficient to put the matter in some way to the secretary when it is clear that it's being done by the Ministry, by the way. ... witha representativeof all members of the council. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u23	Mr. President. I remember that one of the first things that the last government of an independent party and a forwarding party did in its time was to lower hunting cover charges. Now the left is showing its right face and doing the same thing. Left green does exactly the same thing as the highest. The health minister of Svandís Svavarsdóttir was so critical of 15 minutes ago. Are people completely turned to taking places in this council hall? Here's a decrease in fishing fees on the road that has made a fortune over the past few years and so much that just a few days ago an individual walked out of the article at 22 levels. A million. K. for the use of a common resource. It's a punch for the Icelandic public. The estimated reduction in fishing costs is 3 billion. For that amount, child reforms could be increased by 30%, or almost double the government's budget for consumers. Is this really business left greener in the government? Did VG agree to put these matters on schedule, to reduce curses to the ones that have made most of it in this community? [[The president calls.]] This is a disgrace, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u24	A respectable president. It's not just the 11th thing on the program that sits a little bit in us, that's also the 9th matter. Why is that subject taken out of committees and arranged while other cases are being prepared on committees? Why isn't the agreement I mentioned here? I'm going to let me ask the president if there's a president involved in promoting the issues agreed three weeks ago to be allowed to get out of committees and to plan ahead of the government nicknames. I asked, Mr President, if it's not time for the president to make clear to us, the opposition, and assure us that he will take the initiative that the government groups will also respect agreements, not just the government's possession that has to be done. The situation today is offered to the President of Generalis, the one responsible for this situation. It's not up to the government, it's up to the President of the Generals to reveal everything here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u25	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir A Birgir Ármannsson farm recommends a material discussion on the fishing business. The senator must then recommend a material discussion of other matters that are in the same position, first. That must be, another would be a contradiction. If it's the Trustee's office, a respectable president, then we need to talk more carefully in order to get a better understanding of the significance of these words, the prosecuting of the Generals, for thus launching the Senate case before other cases, there is an increase in the importance and abuse of the topic rather than the promotion of the World Council. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u26	A respectable president. When this government was formed and introduced, it was highly assumed that it was a covenant government, a government of the broad reconciliation, where groups to the left and on the right were joined and finally brought low the storms that had raged here for years after the collapse. That peace appeared to us here today, even as it did to us. in these tactics and how the peace will be made. The reconciliation is made to us in that cases that have come into agreement to be paid in a row, but the issues that are addressed to the very rich financial interests of powerful individuals in this country are presented. This government is not a covenanting government. This government is designed for interests. [[The president calls.]] This government is for the protection of important interests. [[The president calls.]] And that's what we're going through today.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u27	Mr. President. It's true that the President of the Generals has the program. But the President of Generalis is the president of the General Assembly, not the president of the government, nor is he the president of the greater part of the employment committee. Therefore, we must ask that when it comes to making contracts between the presidents and members of the council, this agreement is concluded. Otherwise, everything's going to be completely dissolved in here within the house. Now, this fine business, this hunting-free business, where the government has decided to drop 3 billion, hand it over to 3 billion on a silver plate, will be told today. Requests were sent out today. And how long does a client have? Yes, the reviews are due tomorrow. They have one day, Mr. President, to finish the job. Is the owner, the Icelandic people, asked? No, it's just not asked. [[The president calls.]] They're only agents from the projection to pass the headlines. I want, from this platform, to challenge the owner of this resource to send in envelopes. People probably have 12 or 24 hours to do so. [[The president calls.]] I challenge the people to send in envelopes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u28	Mr. President. I would very much appreciate Mr. President being the president of all of us, but not just the president of the greater part. The issue on fishing costs presented here is not being discussed at the council, is by no means in line, and is, as it were. paritaprevir This is the address of a year's Ármannsson farm, and here are some things that need to be discussed. Remuneration warrant is running out of time, it's a simple date case. These groups have been back in the process of reevaluating the fishing arrangements for years and now plan to address it over a few days, just as these same groups here are doing the contributions of the bill to legalize personal protection, a huge case that the groups themselves have conducted for months, and they intend to take sides in the assembly for a week. This is totally disrespectful to the council. This is totally disrespectful to the role we have in this room, to be careful, to make decisions. This is amateur, and this is a disgrace.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u29	Mr. President. It's all getting pretty sad. Regarding the specific matters discussed mainly, and as the last session at the meeting today, I understand that reports have been issued on the basis of the case. Committee. To date, it has been customary for a subject to be scheduled and referred to a committee before sending out a statement. I feel somehow that everything in this council is turning on head and head. People are great formalists, some of them, so I don't quite figure out what this is all about. In addition, when members of Congress are being discussed, the majority of them are very strangely stressed that they are addressed, that they are addressed, and that they are called for reviews and visitors, and that they are not to be moved, unless all agree exactly on the committee. [[The president calls.]] But that does not seem to apply when life is in control.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u30	V.E.G. President. The signature of the Treaty of the Government of Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, of the procurator of the Generals, has become a reproach for that government. For good reason, I would advise this government, now contrary to this plan during the first few weeks of the council, to take up this government covenant and wipe out this meaningless signature from the covenant. I'd also like to look for a president and I'd like to ask him, for example. of this day's 9th program: Where on schedule is the matter of the Party for housing to go out of the index? That's a committee. All I know is that it's ready, that it can be taken out. The Consolvement proposal of the Central Party, of the local selection for a new national hospital, where this stat, Mr. President? [[The president calls.]] Let me remind a president that he is the president of all of us, or should be. [[The president calls.]] I ask him to leave it to us, who supported him to this coffer, not to regret it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u31	A respectable president. Do you hear the call, Senator? Hear the call, hear the call, everywhere? Do you hear the call from the elderly? Do you hear from micro-germs? Can you hear me calling from the school system? Can you hear me calling from law enforcement? Do you hear the call from health care institutions in the country? Can you hear me calling you? Listen up. Do you hear from the mental health system? Can you hear from the high school in the country? Do you hear the call for transportation? No. But do you hear the call from the deportation? Yeah. Lower hunting costs. It's the call that's been coming through all these voices. How important was that? How important was lowering fishing costs? This call for fishing costs has been ahead of us for a long time, but it is due to be made known right now at high speed throughout the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u32	Mr. President. I want to use this opportunity to congratulate Karl Gauti Hjaltason on his birthday and thank him very much for his earlier speech. I agree with the words that have fallen upon the welfare committee's release on two members of the Senate. On the one hand, there are the people that just got stopped yesterday, and on the other hand, it's the case I'm taking over to a new national hospital that has an ultimatum tomorrow. I'm curious about tomorrow. I don't know what that's going to be like. I understand there's an agreement. I'm curious to know if that agreement will be respected.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u33	A respectable president. As we have seen, this has been accomplished by incredible tact, or perhaps just determined desire to put down this justice issue for which the people's party has been fighting. He was answering the call of those whose cutest things have been held away. I would especially like to draw attention to the matter discussed as a result of removing taxation on the scholarship to buy relief tools for the elderly and the disabled. What would have happened to that? I'm sorry about that, but I forgot to ask for a review. Is this an acceptable, respectable president?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u34	A respectable president. I just want to make sure who the contortionist is that this case comes up in this way, 11th case, for the price of hunting. Of course, part of the problem faced by the council now on the basis of planning and possible negotiations or agreements is how late the matter is, and all in this room know that adjustments have been made in months and lost together. The reason seems to be the disagreement between the governments. I'm thinking that the next few days, maybe weeks, we're going to be up to it and we're going to have a case, because the government groups are completely skimmed with each other on such issues as this. Of course, that is why this is the case rather than being on the normal course that it would have been if it had been discussed here much earlier at this council. There has been plenty of time. [[The president calls.]] The lights have been turned off here in the councilroom of the first part of the day just because it's not a problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u35	Mr. President. Here we are, here we go. paritaprevir A Birgir Ármannsson of a year, an explanation of the government, claimed that we would rebel against the coming up of the matter. This is wrong. We don't object to being paid off by Congress at the council, but we violate the fact that the matter is stated in other matters, contrary to tradition, in a nonsenseing argument. We resist such priorities and assume that nothing is more important than them and especially that they are eager to do so. We refuse to let the public get a total of one and a half days to give a review of such important matters, contrary to good work practices, and only by grueling. paritaprevir It's the Magnúsdóttir Rafney Islands, Michael's daughter, who rubbed this case through the committee. We're resisting the violation of treaties on the lesser part. These are not acceptable practices. Of course, we refuse to use such historical explanations to say that we are somehow stalling and trying to stop them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u36	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir A Ármannsson's Birgir brought into play the matter of the welfare committee. He thought it was a great idea for a greater part of Independence Party, a forwarding party, and a left green to send our case to a committee that no one knows about. A committee to reduce the losses of older citizens in the workplace. We didn't have a case like that inside. We had a clean case to risk any losses in older people's earnings and incubating. That's a different thing. We tried to have the case discussed at the council. If the matter is to be considered, this mysterious committee that no one knows about, why not discuss it in the second. and if it had been approved at the council, send it to her? What are they hiding? Why are they afraid to let this matter go? It's simple, it's because it's amazingly practical for older citizens and it's also enormously practical for a government fund.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u37	Mr. President. Since we here discuss the activities of the council, I am not only eager but also obliged to report the visit of a foreign committee to the Scottish Parliament. There we met the Speaker of the Council, who was a very nice man. I asked him after lunch if I was wrong about being a member of the Labour Party. And he said, No, I am the president of the council, and I resigned because I am the president of the whole council. Now I'm not asking to the highest. Mr President will resign from VG but I would like him to be the president of the entire council. You see, it's about to turn everything upside down. They're forcing a case through here. The headlines are due by noon tomorrow. V.E.G. A health minister might come up and say what changed since her words fell through similar cases on July 4, 2013, in other respects than the sum of about seven times the amount. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u38	The President is most concerned about that, given the question. A senator, that the president of the Scottish Parliament is a gentle man, whether there is any basis for reason to reason that the president of Generalis is not.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u39	A respectable president. I'm glad the 11th session is on schedule, and hopefully we'll get into a material discussion about it as soon as possible. I think it's important, and it sounds like there's a lot of will at the U.S.R. to discuss it materially. [[Foreground on: No.]] You see, it is a great call from the settlements to live on. It's a big deal, and I think we need to discuss it in order to stop the compression. The call we've been talking about -- how are we going to deal with it, in the number of teams we've been over here, if our job life and basic roads can't work because they're being squeezed in? We will not be exposed to the pleas that come here without discussing and completing this matter. I don't know better than that it's the main struggle with restoration, in the present majority of the capital talks, increasing the competitiveness of companies. [[Up front.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] This is so important that I look forward to discussing this matter materially. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u40	Mr. President. I can totally agree that this case is way too late, I take heart. It should have been here a long time ago. We began to discuss this subject and the services of SMEs as early as January and February on the job committee, called guests. We knew that it was a great appeal, especially in these small and medium-sized companies, for reevaluation of fishing costs that increased by 200 to 300 percent and even more on September 1, 2017. It is now known that if a fishing fee had been set in line with the availability of this article, it would be 7.2 billion. Last year, there were 8.4 billion fishing fees. With this bill, which specifically addresss the problems of small and medium-sized enterprises and equals, we are taking care to ensure that there is something in the currency to all kinds of fish - we are talking about 8.3 billion. The 10.2 billion budget does not hold up, it is a plan, and in a financial program, there are about 8 billion in fishing costs a year.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u41	Mr. President. At the end of the council, style, vision, and tolerance of the president of the Senate are tested to have a solution, to be the president of the entire council. This is the first test stone of a new government. I have to say, I think I'm the greatest. The president did not begin well this journey in the direction of reconciliation at the council. There's been a modification of council tradition and order, so I think I'd like to ask for it. paritaprevir Björn, Leví of Gunnarsson, of unscrupulous rules and traditions at the council is very timely. This is surprising, what is being done here, and how are you conducting a program? A major political issue, a reduction in hunting costs, the priority of the government, is set up, moved forward with wearers, and taken out of a professional committee yesterday. This needs to be discussed. It is quite clear that the government is setting priorities for the development of the project, in order to lower the cost of up to 3 billion. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's government priorities. Okay, it's fine to get it out. [[The president calls.]] But what I'm most worried about is the tradition and the rules of this council, and I'm impressed. To sit down as soon as possible, to retire now, and to sit down with members of the council in order to make a raid on the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u42	Mr. President. I allow myself to remind me of the subjects that are prepared from committees who live here on the program. This includes the matter of digital carpenters who are greatly satisfied with the General and Education Committee and are ready to be made payable within the council, but are not on the program. Also applicable are the national restoration issues of better women's classes. It is also not on the program on this day. All of this upsets the members of the council, especially what language they are going to bring on the program. I remind you that the pursuit has, like, an advance. while our affairs remain, the council is still in session, and we are not allowed to discuss them. For the current discussion, I also feel that it is important to keep it in place that on Tuesday we are going to discuss a financial program. I think this case brings a bomb into that discussion. I wondered, " Is this being expected in a financial program? ' [[The president calls.]] It also upsets them completely and how they will handle the government's financial plans.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u43	A respectable president. I have to make a special remark to the highest. The president should not have responded to the most serious comments that have been made here regarding the outright betrayal of the greater portion of a certain agreement made before a intermission. I'm not talking about the government's declaration of the procreation of the Generals that everyone could give herself to be some kind of a miscommunication in Orwell style. I'm talking about a special treat of honors, as I thought it should be, after the government situation, once more, was ready to step in on matters here at council. On the contrary, she asked for a number of cases that had been taken hostage in the committees of the council, urgent cases, to be released from committees. It was agreed on. In fact, the majority did not agree that this would be done for a break, did not allow time to do so, but promised that these cases would get out, the hostages would be released immediately after the break. Why is the government not going to fulfill this? Now I suggest the highest. This meeting is interrupted by the president, and he is determined to correct these matters. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u44	I'm not here to complain of my temper. President. On the other hand, I draw attention to the Supreme One. The president has more Congress experience than the back of the class here on the right side combined. That's why it's going to be the best. The president to see that this program we have in front of us is not going to agree or agree. What do wise men do when they see it coming? Yes, they take a break, review matters with members of Congress, wear clothes on their weapons, they find solutions. That's why I'm at the highest. To take up all the congregational experience he has and to address all the challenges he has, and now postpones the meeting and reviews the convention and the matters that we members of the Parliament have discussed and complained today so that we can continue our work so that it is important to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u45	A respectable president. A poor person can fully pay his own aid tools. And the elderly can only do so well and return what they may earn back to the Kingdom treasure. On the other hand, companies have called on to live, such as at least. paritaprevir This is what Vilhjálmur Árnason said earlier. There's been a call from Samherja, a call from Granda, to live. The present great things, and the government, while others can do so well and return their own to society, will receive this call from the Samherja and Granda and let them live.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u46	Mr. President. I believe that there is no doubt in the mind of the government's opposition to the work of a member of the council during these final meters of the council. As far as we know, we are here on our last record. In addition to this day, there are three days of Congress left. There's been a number of things. There's been a number of facts. I'm simply going to ask the highest. Allegiance: Is it not the most honest thing to interrupt meetings and settle these matters, put the cards on the table, and inform the government's stand on what is really in the pipe? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] Or is honesty another concept that weakened at the beginning of this government work?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u47	Mr. President. I've sometimes talked about the three forwarding parties in the government, but I have to admit that I didn't quite have the imagination that the left green had become a constant attachment to the Independence Party and to the forward party, especially when it comes to the masking of economic care in certain areas. This is where we get it in black and white. So we naturally ask: What is the business of the left green now in the government? On the other hand, the highest. The president brought us here and became the president of the entire council by interrupting a meeting, arranged for members of the House to meet with him in an effort to hire our counsel so that we can gain some agreement on the program of the council, that the matter will not be scheduled in any way with violence. I'm the highest. A president who I believe can help with matters now pause at a meeting to get people together and cover the program and the next few days. It is urgent to receive a clear answer from the highest. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u48	A respectable president. I spoke here about the plea the state of Congress is truly listening. We've heard it in the winter of the council from where this call has come from. There has been a lot of unconcerned debates about the status of disability and elderly, low-payers, health and school systems, etc., as mentioned earlier. We also know what the formation has been calling for, i.e. the reduction in fishing costs, but was it the most important issue to be taken in court before and at the end of the council? Why was this matter not long established? The director of the professional trade committee acknowledged that it was late, and the committee was lying in this case. I just ask, "Why in the hell didn't this case come in sooner if it was so urgent? " In other words, we're supposed to accept this case, the most urgent case, at some speed. [[The president calls.]] That wasn't the most important thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u49	The president would like to say, first of course, that it does not have to be noted that it is unfortunate when matters of Congress appear late, if it is considered necessary to meet them before they are finished, whether it is spring or before Christmas. Second, regarding the convention program today, the president has requested that it be in all articles, as expected and sent out to the council classes for the weekend, and then again discussed at meetings on Monday, except that the program has yet to be proposed by foreign ministers on the European Regulation. Certainly, it was not before and then what cases might arise from members of the council, but it was known that members of the Parliament were discussing it either in part or in part within them, putting forth a case, and that they would be taken up to 1st. For other members of Congress, it has not been established that the president will take them on the program provided that they have come out of committees - of course, no discussion is needed that cases that are still under committees will not be set up - and provided that the committees consider at least the majority of the cases have been received. So on the two senators matters on this program, both cases received a committee opinion yesterday, allowing them to be distributed for the night. Other matters that were not there could not be arranged according to the nature of the matter. [[Up front.]] The president reminds us that he had requested to meet with members of Congress at the time. 12.30. It may not be that the time will pass, but as soon as unprepared inquiries and special discussions are completed, the wishes of the government opposition, which I assume are interested in being made, will be announced to that meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u50	To answer, Minister of Education and Culture, Environment and Resource Minister, Health Minister and Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u51	Mr. President. By permission: THE sea's colour turned to red, and the butcher is frozen. His blood-stained hands are still warm. He proudly holds that camera. Thus, a headline in a German newspaper is read when hunting was permitted back in Iceland in 2003. Similar news reports and reports of whales appeared in the media throughout the Western world, resulting in great stumbling and criticism. After a few days, fishing is to be allowed on as many as 209 long - tried species, which are now the second - largest living species, and are listed in the list of endangered animals. When fishing was permitted again soon after a crash, the nation's economy was very different, and the people licked the wounds after the crash. Even today, economic evidence is not available and there is the greatest chance that this will damage our work life. There is no question about whether these products can be sold. 190 nations forbid the trade and transport of whale products. In addition, 28 European countries and the United States have formally objected to the conventions in this country. There is also no adequate assessment of the impact of whales on biodiversity, economics, or community. Finally, the brutality of this fishing business, with fire - old machines, is endless. In that light, the decision to continue hunting is really completely incomprehensible. I just want to know if it's the highest. Environment Minister will agree that this includes being shortsighted and whether something has changed in the direction of the left greens regarding the peace of whales. If nothing has changed, then how has the pack exercised itself in government? And if something's changed, what new logic wants the most. Minister lists that recommend whale hunting in Iceland?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u52	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for the inquiry. The fishing involved here is based on a decision being made under Regulation, which will be carried out in 2018. As for the government and the continuation of hunting, there is something that has not been decided on, but an assessment has been made to determine the economic impact of fishing, more than just the one involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u53	Mr. President. Conspiracy. Out of the way. Entire. I'm getting pretty bored with this. I ask: Is the government taking action to stop and prevent this fishing from starting again? Because it can. We look up at the left green in almost all aspects of the environment. Last week's going to be the best. Secretary of the budget and the highest. A secretary of transportation and frosted ideas about a city line, though, is the largest environmental effort we could make. What's going to happen? environmental minister to stand if he is not going to stop whaling? It would be very good to hear it clearly. I don't want to sit here and listen to the board of directors of the board of directors, or to the Committee to Re-Elect. The government has this in its hands. I just want to hear, "Very much. " A minister will use himself, or will he not? Because there must be a very clear testimony to what the left green is today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u54	Thank you. A senator, once again, will not interfere with me if he is willing to sit under this or not, must be subject to himself. It is clear that this minister is primarily environmental and natural protection. This minister has promoted large - scale funding for this category, which, considering the year 2017, will remember 35%; over the next five years, less than 7 billion in climate, 7.5 billion in nature protection. I don't know that other environmental ministers have done better when it comes to such sums of money in this suit. I'm just referring to what I told you earlier that Regulation is in effect. I don't know any better than they'll be after her before this time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u55	You can establish a different directive.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u56	- No, actually, I can't say I have a regulation in this. It's all in the realm of a sea leader. So it's a matter there that I don't know any better than it's going to be done in this way. [[The president calls.]] However, the review of these issues is planned. That's what's going to happen.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u57	Mr. President. There's a serious shortage of nurses in Iceland. This shows the number of tests on nursing performance. According to an analysis of the labour market of nurses, there are about 1,000 nurses working for non-nurses. A large proportion of nurses, or 98%, are women and work about 94% in a public labour market. Some 13% of nurses can start a pension in the next few years. The results of a survey by the Icelandic nurses of health care clinics in Iceland show that 290 nurses now need to be employed to finance the health status of nurses. Predictions of nursing care in 2017/2021 show that there will be a difference between 420 nurses missing in the coming years where new nursing staff will keep in touch with the number of people who have taken a pension in the next few years. What I want to talk to you about is the highest. Health Minister is the serious lack of nurses in Iceland. Also, I would like to discuss in the state of conditions ahead of us in the medical system in the summer because of the lack of nurses, but they need to take vacations, as others do the stress. I have wondered because a lot of nurses worry about some of these things. Besides this, there are summer blocks ahead of us because of the lack of nurses. The Cities at the Land Hospital will be closed for one month because nurses will not be allowed to operate. Other finals have been announced. The situation at the emergency room is a major concern. Nothing has been done to cope with the increase in the number of foreign tourists in the area, with no increase in human resources. It's totally unacceptable. So I want to ask the highest. Health Minister: What would a minister intend to do in order to deal with a serious lack of nurses?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u58	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for bringing up the matter, which is one of the major topics of Icelandic health care, i.e. The man's problem. Unfortunately, he has more health - care professionals than nurses, but especially those professions. One of the things in the pipes is meeting a book that was signed by three legislators with a collective agreement with the League of colleges that attracts the attention of human forecasts, as well as the needs of human health services into the future. It will take into account much of the change in population age, since we may need a different formulation of health care as the years go by. This is especially true of us. Because of what? A senator specifically asked about the closing of the Cardiac Precise and the situation at the National Hospital this summer, since the senator asks for both long and short - term questions, the services of heart experts at the emergency room in Fos so loyal, according to my information from the Land Hospital. Those who need emergency action will be transferred to Ring Road for action. Of course, the root is twofold; one is a lack of humility and the other is the problem of design. So big is our care for the design problem that we need to keep on looking for all ways to ensure proper design within our whole health system. That's my priority, and I want to accept any good advice in this regard. Above all, we sit down with the authority of the medical institutions, the educated, and the professionals themselves to look for ways to the future. Unfortunately, this is not just our subject here in Iceland but a global problem and project, a growing need for health professionals.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u59	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. As I mentioned earlier, there is a large part of this that some 1,000 nurses do not function as nurses do. We need to get good health care professionals back into our health sector. If we just look at the pay, the most common wage for nurses is about 359,000. ... fulltime. The average daily pay of nurses is about 526,000 k. ... fulltime. The pay differences between nurses and other classes with a comparable education and government responsibilities are about 20%. When compared with doctors, the pay amount is 98%. The France of Icelandic nurses suggests that when nurses fail, they give more money to their nurses and raise their salary in line with other government employees. Mr. President. They need to deal with this serious problem right away. Of course, this is where pay matters are of great importance. This group must be reassigned to this important class.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u60	A respectable president. It is true that this is a project that will be carried out in its own time and length. I'd like to take special care of that as a dog. A senator brings up the work environment. In addition to looking to collective agreements when considering them, part of my subject and health - care subjects are recognises in a wide context of work, i.e. Work conditions and opportunities for development and growth. Increased emphasis on teamwork in the whole medical service, where nurses are being lifted by specialised means and that expertise is being maintained. It also matters when you enjoy going to work and enjoying your work. There is something we can do and should also look to. In all my dealings with the health system, I have to make sure that teamwork ensures that the strong presence of all professions fulfills the services we want to see that meet different health care providers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u61	Mr. President. Inadequation is a highly controversial activation of any development based on a misunderstanding that only the West can guarantee adequate electrical bioavailability through activation at this site. Many have noted that this is a particularly beautiful place on the West with unique beauty of nature, but it is clearly clear that it will be greatly disturbed if it is due to induction. There are now some indications that because of the fast - lowering price of solar energy production and the storage of electricity, the demand for electricity for heavy energy may decrease from 2040. In addition, there is a well - known problem with electrical energy in Western distribution problems, not manufacturing problems. I'd like to ask the highest. Environment Minister: Is it possible, on the part of the Environment Minister, to ease the area around the Whale River in accordance with the proposals of Sigurður Gísli Pálmason? If not, would a secretary of the environment be open to ensure that more extensive environmental assessments are carried out in the area than they have already been, before the activation program began, in order to eliminate any doubt about the implementation? Finally: Could it be morally acceptable to take such important and irreversible action in view of the fact that this is both a wrong solution to the existing problem and at the same time can create a bigger problem for both nature and the economic situation of the people in the future?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u62	First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for this important inquiry. I'd like to first be sure that Iceland's research has been done on the influence of some of the activation ideas in small communities. There's a doctorate on the Three Sear Beings in that regard. It's very interesting to study this because what seems to happen when such ideas enter communities, especially in small communities, is that they cause division among the population. I think that's what we've seen right now around the county election, that's what's going to happen in these little rural communities. Because of what? A senator mentioned whether something is morally correct, so I wanted to mention this as an example of the effects of such an attitude. It wouldn't necessarily have to be activation, it might as well be something else. But I find it very thought - provoking to consider this social aspect. When they were working on the 3rd edge of the framework program, this was done a little; assigned professional group that had to make a social and economic impact. It started with this work - I remember three communities where activation ideas in those stages were planned - to try to draw out the people's attitudes and to use them to further indicate whether or not to attack the fortresses. This job is something that I think needs to continue developing so that I can better answer these questions about how this affects our communities.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u63	Mr. President. I wish that my previous questions will be answered, but don't kill them in this way. I hope to the highest. A minister will not suffer pain, even if I ask about other things that are related to whales on the way. Like what? Einarsson The Logi of a whaling began over the next few weeks, and especially in a long run, which is in danger of extinction. Iceland is now a member of the CITS Convention, on the protection of animal species in danger of extinction, but we are on the lookout for whaling. I'd like to know if the Environment Minister would be open to this and ready to relieve Iceland's notice of the whales in the CITS deal so that long-term protection will be restored in a natural way. These are three questions that are open to: Will the area around the Whale River be protected? Is it normal to put this into better environmental evaluations? Can we fix the CITS deal so we're having a couple with other countries around the world?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u64	Thank you again. I think I'm gonna have to put on a quick tape so I can answer all of this. First of all, regarding the independence of the area around here, there are no plans for that. It has a professional procedure designed to protect or dispose of at any time. So far, it hasn't been put out there. Yet, north of the area, there have been ideas of expanding the land of Peace on the Horn Coast. Whether there is a wider environmental assessment, it is worth considering simply because of what has happened there. However, the implementation of the environmental assessment has just taken place. About what question? The senator to lift a warning about a long shot at the CITS deal is something I think it would be interesting to look at. I thank him for that tip.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u65	A respectable president. I'm going to direct questions to the highest. Minister of Justice. They're reevaluating damage laws and they're still in debt to pension funds and they're increasing them. If I read a word from a damage law, by permission of a president, then it says that lasting disability at 5. par.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: At the same time, the damage requirement should be reduced by 40% of the calculated monotherapy value from the pension fund and should be calculated based on 4.5% of annual growth. Other payments that damage tolerance may result from a third person because of physical injury, such as a pension fund or a insurance company, will not be reduced from a damage requirement. They're taking the legalized and property product out there, saving it for insurance companies. Then there is something even worse. A Migration that is physical damage to the individual - there is the strange arrangement that accounts for a credit card number that no one uses, a credit card number that gives no mistakes to the person who suffers. Miska has a very low compensation. A 1 0 percent miscalculation gives a person 4 billion. K. We're talking about a person who is paralyzed from the neck down. The individual's daughters are calculated with a credit card number, not with a remuneration marker. Why is this? Is that normal? It's under the roof. Is this natural with the Minister of Justice? Is she gonna change it? Does she find it normal to take legalized and owned product out of the individual's pocket and use it for insurance companies who don't know their money in the welcome? Will she see to it that this is changed, that the number of loans goes out, and that the pay number is used so that the people get fairly correct compensation?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u66	A respectable president. I know why. A senator reviews the damage laws. For the council, there is a bill that I once recommended in the winter on the very specific aspects of the damages laws. In my story on that matter, I declared that it would then be necessary to reevaluate the entire damage laws. It's actually been around and I think it's been moved for at least A decade, the need to do so. I am so determined that it will be done, and therefore I courted the story of the matter facing the council. I understand there's an understatement. A top-of-the-art Board of Education. I've also heard of it at the council that there's a possibility that people would like to postpone the case and take it all out for a full review. Of course, the decision to make such a decision needs to be evaluated by the council. But I believe that the entire damage laws in general will be reviewed, and there are a number of factors that need to be considered. Especially may this need to be considered. A senator named here, i.e. Binding of the calculation to a GPA or any other index number, a pay number. This, of course, is the view that needs to be examined, but I can't answer it here and now what my position on individual factors, in technical implementation, would be. I'm just stressing working on these damage laws, preparing for their review at the Ministry of Justice. The next winter will be full.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u67	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for these answers. But I'd also like to show her that there's been an increase in pension reserves, two thirds being cut. Who are the ones who get these two thirds of the pension fund? It's the insurance. How are your insurance companies today? They are in a coven, they have shoulder bands, they have belts to keep their money, they are rich in abundance. And where does it come from? It's from funds. What is a bountary fund? Yes, it is an compensation made by insurance companies because an individual is involved in an accident. It's a fund that's never renovated. These are boils that swollen out. We've seen them go to a luxury camp in China or in Tortata or elsewhere and come back as a bet in a swimming pool on Elfune. It's amazing that this is possible. It's no good. I say, why don't we just deal with this and reduce the financial resources of an insurance company and extra benefits to those who have been hurt and who need them?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u68	A respectable president. Of course, there may be some opinions about how insurance companies are expelled. However, insurance companies are bound to very clear and strict management rules and regulations, including That's what you're gonna do. That's what you're gonna do. That's what you're gonna do. I think these rules on business insurance companies in this country are similar to those in other countries, at least in the European Economic Area, so they're all consistent rules. We would not want to be without the funds, since they are, of course, supposed to meet high claims of reform by insurance companies. Of course, all of this needs to be discussed with a review of the damage laws. Of course, I stress that many people's viewpoints appear there. A group that will be appointed to review these laws will be appointed not only by the insurance companies but by all those who benefit from this law, which, of course, are all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u69	President. No one has missed the effect of a short student study to a student's test that it seems that the change had a significant impact on the student's position, as might be expected. It has been reported in the winter that pressure on students has greatly increased, societal participation has been greatly reduced, the attendance of students on some sort of psychological assistance has greatly increased, and in general there is evidence that students'condition has deteriorated significantly as a result of this change. I have personally been a sponsor for this short - tailed shortcut, but of course, it is of utmost importance how it is being fulfilled. So today, it seems that there have been some signs of lack of quality in this regard. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of Education: Has the Ministry performed some sort of analysis of the student's condition, and what has been the development since the study was cut short? Has the Ministry ever had any analysis of the effect of short-term suspension by students from school and influence on the development of scores in the shortened student study? Is there any work going on with the Ministry involved in the need to actually revise a school course through high school so that the pressure of short school classes will be distributed over the years, not just the three subjects mentioned at high school? Finally: Is a minister willing to examine the ideas that may include. was discussed when this change took value in providing education with increasing flexibility, e.g. taking students earlier, even after 9th grade, and offering them four years of high school study?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u70	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for a very good inquiry. It should be noted, of course, that these changes at high school are the greatest changes that have occurred in high school since it was established. This is the big change when we're shrinking school by 25%. First, I want to say that we are very closely aware of the impact of these changes. I'd like to mention that for example at the Versatile School, a survey has been made among those who were finishing three years and those who just finished four years, i.e. how they do so. It turns out that there is very little difference between the graduates'completion of three or four years. I had those results in my hands last week. Regarding whether we're studying how students are doing in the school system, there's been an education agency that's been watching. It turns out that feelings of distress have been growing. That is why we have been joined by a health minister, and we are trying to map out how we can pay access to psychological services at the entire high school. Psychological services are available far and wide. I've studied it in many high schools. In particular, since psychological services are available for prevention, this is of utmost importance. The success of the students increases as a result. We're also having the elimination checked. We have a project management. But there's something else I'd like to say. I think that the greatest challenge for the shortcut will be related to the work, industry and technology because it does not occur in the same way in these articles. I see both this growing pressure and how these articles come out. It's a bit of a challenge.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u71	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. This may be evidence of this, considering the information the minister brings here with the short - term use, as if in the case of Versaille School, had no significant impact on the student's position, and gives support to the fact that the four - year study course was simply packed down to three, which, of course, means that it greatly increases the pressure and has negative consequences for a student who is concerned. I fear that the State here has given its own interests a bearing on the government's benefits, not on high school, but on its high school goal. This stress had not been stressed enough over the entire course of study. For example, the jump between high school and high school was quite marked. This change seems to have greatly increased. I'd like to reiterate my last question that I didn't hear a minister answer. It was rejected at the time for schools such as, for example, Our high school in Reykjavík could invite students to continue their four - year study. Is there any reason to have such inflexibility but to allow the schools to offer a wide variety of solutions, such as three or four years of study and early study? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u72	A respectable president. With the flexibility and spreading the pressure, I agree. A senator that we need to consider because this great shortening occurs there, but it is obvious that he will then become more demanding at the elementary school because even a student needs to get better ready for high school. I think we're gonna be working on this and improving our education system because of this shortcut, and it's gonna take a considerable amount of time. It won't take a few years, but it'll take some time. I certainly want to look for cooperation. A senator named High School in Reykjavík. I'm open to the flexibility of offering that if you want to study there for four years, I think we should let it and talk to it and even change things to do so. A certain flexibility also gives certain freedoms so that students and students can adapt to the system they want to be in. So I'm a bit positive about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u73	A respectable president. I greatly missed hearing no clear answer from the President of the Generals to see if he was willing to accept the agreement made a few weeks ago. However, there has now been a meeting with members of the council in about 15 minutes, where the president will soon inform members of the council or members of the council whether he intends to use himself for that agreement. I think it is proper, more dignified, to interrupt immediately at a meeting so that the council members can sit down with a president and discuss the position that has come up. It is very tempting to go back to the tactics of the major part of the council when there is only a brief period of time left in the council. In fact, we senators have heard over the past few days that they will extend the council. There's been a killing of the Chairman's meetings, from what I hear. But it has not been, of course, been discussed with members of the council how the program and the like would be arranged in the event of this. So it is very important that the president take some form of action here and assist members of the Parliament when it is time to complete the Senate work.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u74	The president would like to suggest that this has been very successful and that there is no reason for giving but that we too are doing well to work together on a project that we are waiting for. It is true that there has already been a need to add some days to the Generals' work period, since it has rightly been said that large cases have come late. Regarding the continuation, there is a special discussion on the request of the administrative body that I had assumed would be of interest to men. After that, the president will meet with members of the council and have already requested it. It said that the meeting would be at the end of the day. a little bit, but we'll see how that leads, and the rest will be informed after that meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u75	Mr. President. It is in itself quite nice to hear the highest of things. The president's views on how he has felt that the Senate was a priority. But there are also a considerable number of us who do not share that view with him. We've talked about how many times things hated like old, bad times. It is important to work hard that, in these last days, we feel at peace and can discuss matters with some sense of reason so that the Senate will be effective in the future. It says, as stated many times, in the government covenant that it should be directed toward it. We are truly ready and have shown this, but the government has not. Because of this case, which is now to be put on the schedule, I feel better. Councilmen to look at reports of stress records here and there in the country and who are now the most prominent in the world's peaks.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u76	Mr. President. I come up with this team because of the words of the president of the previous assembly at a meeting where he made it clear that the members of the council were allowed to realize that this was going to the 1st. Case that was behind most of the committee. That's not true. This was not our understanding of the coming trinities, since we have arranged for a matter to take place here for 1st. would be either a government case or a case with a perfect agreement on the committees. Another is just a special agreement on Congress matters. It cannot be assumed that such a case, such as a reduction in hunting costs, is put on the program with the support of a major committee. This is why I strongly protest, and therefore I say this case will not be taken over unless something much changes after the meeting of the president with members of the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u77	Mr. President. I have to face up to my colleague's understanding. paritaprevir Oddný's Harðardóttir Daughter, the fact that there was no mention of the exact subject coming on the program of the council. However, it was observed at the highest level. The president sent us to see that the matter of Congress would be arranged. Somehow, I expected that the terms of the senators who were prepared for payment, including digital carpenters and nationalities, to improve the status of the women class, two cases from the side of the government, would be considered as well. Instead, we take matters into account in a confusing dispute to cover up 1st. ... nothinghas been discussed. I just want to be sure that this has not been discussed at the scene of the council classes with the highest degree. President, not at all, and it's wrong to say so here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u78	The President has information from a Parliamentary Conference Office that the program will include members of members of the committees that were handled on the day's program, i.e. cases that had come out of the committee and that had been mentioned. [[Up front.]] In fact, it is true that matters that are beyond our schedule are not yet on because they have become a very long, busy discussion and are waiting at the place where they were divorced for a long time before a intermission.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u79	V.E.G. President. It's natural. It's unauthorized information. There's supposed to be a mutual understanding here. Respect and considerable reconciliation are required here at the council on the final meters. Congresss, including those from the government side, cannot attend the council program because the administrative body does not want to replace them with committees. Still, these are matters that everyone agrees on, they must not be taken off the committee just because they are not from the right person - although they are nationally important, as some cases from the Central Party and the Gang of the People. And I can also name a national agreement for improving the interests of women's classes. It's just not to be taken care of. I'm the highest. The president to pause the fastest in the council and meet immediately, not waiting ten minutes, after we have finished speaking about the President's conference management; simply taking a break, going clean and speaking to members of the council. That's how things are gonna work out, that's how we get an understanding of the thinking and ideas of the government. [[The president calls.]] If not, I insist that the prime minister come into the hall and participate in the discussion. I want to get the government's priorities clear when it comes to Congress. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u80	A respectable president. I agree with the comments of other senators when it comes to the schedule and point out that a number of subjects in the discussion may have taken priority today. This is called an urgent case because there is a curing authority. It is easy for the council to deal with such a problem. The government proclaimed that it was important to settle the cost of fishing, that it was important that the fishing fee provided the nation with a natural price for both the access and the benefit of the resource. This is a sudden run with some piece of shit that's supposed to reduce the cost of hunting by $3 billion without any analysis of how this case would be best in the long term. I don't understand this kind of work. There is no need for much of the fishing road. This article is said to have reached its limit of endurance with 16% of EBIDTA. I know from experience that there are only a very small number of jobs in Iceland who live in such high EBIDTA production and fishing exports that are said to be in distress in such situations. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'll ask them, how is the business of other companies in this country if this article is in total need? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u81	Mr. President. I'm going to agree with the understanding of other council groups of government opposition; this is not the way we discussed the preceding program, that Congress issues in a confusing conflict were stated in the order. It's true that this is a big case that needs discussion. It is also true, however, that no agreement has been made about the end of the council, and while it is not available, we are talking about three days of Congress left and many other matters in the lake that the government has violated and needs a great discussion. We hear that the Generals are discussing the extension of Congress, even until the middle of a month. This is even brought up by committees in conversation with guests. I ask: Where do they get this information from? Since we were here earlier this week, it may not be out of the question, a large matter not presented to the council, but it may have been presented at a meeting point: Is there information on the end of the council, perhaps? Are members of Congress going to go out there looking for this information, those in charge of the antiquities?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u82	Mr. President. The president noted earlier that this spring had done well for Congress. I'm not quite sure what's good in that matter, because I haven't been here as long as the president, but I can imagine what that would be like. For example, the first cases of the government came very late, and the president should in fact thank the government for the fact that it had been established for the first few months. Then cases have come very late, and it has been wrong with tradition and rules, e.g. The 1st April, and repeated with the exception without necessarily a great deal of consent on the side of the government. And as a matter of intermission, all members of Congress were stopped in committees, even though they were ready for release. Then I'm still a matter of election age, but I'm also a lot of other stuff. I have heard from various committees that there were a number of platypus going on by the Senate section to stop everything. [[The president calls.]] I've been aware of it myself. [[The president calls.]] I also mention the matter of digital carpenters, ready. There's a committee opinion, there's no reason why it can't be on the program today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u83	A nominee in that case had not been distributed last night at the time of distribution. [[Up front.]] Yes, the bill itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u84	A respectable president. We're talking about 3 billion bucks. reduction of the development. What could we do with this funding? IF YOU did not lack money, would YOU be closing some of their respective treatment institutions for some summer? If we thought 10 percent of what we're going to use to reduce fishing costs, whether they're rich or not, should the situation be as serious to our young people as to those who are dying? A young boy was dying a few days ago because of his injected morphine medicine. I don't know how many young people have died since New Year's Eve. But if it were caused by car accidents, by plane accidents, by sea accidents, it would be perfectly clear that the situation had been dealt with, and so severely. The financial program for the next five years assumes 3 billion dollars. reduction of hunting costs, to be said. [[The president calls.]] That's 15 billion in five years. [[The president calls.]] I guess there's someone out in the community who's more in need of the money than a lot of really rich makings. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u85	Mr. President. I can't say anything at all. President on the success of the council because we are here just before the end of the council, at least if you want to meet with a plan, and there are a number of cases that are only in the first record. Can be used there, e.g. There are huge cases, total laws that were distributed, and discussed here in 1st. In the week on personal protection, but also a financial plan, which came too late into the council according to a legal date, a core plan, a national part of the programme. At this morning's meeting, two members of the Environment and Transport Committee were present - two members of the government. Then we have the election age, which is in the middle of the 3rd. It's kind of incredible. I have to agree with what. paritaprevir Gunnar Sveinsson Sveinson. Of course, this meeting should be interrupted now, not in a special discussion about the U.S.A., but in meeting with members of the council and making the rest today. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u86	Such a meeting was to begin in two minutes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u87	A respectable president. If I understand this correctly, the key point is that government matters are in the order of the issues taken. Second, there are matters that are generally at peace. Most of all, it is a matter of controversy. The puzzle is likely: Why is this matter being addressed now in line? In fact, there is only one explanation. She's because it's government. This is a government case in hideouts. The government hides behind much of the committee and cannot live up to its main ideals and interests. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u88	A respectable president. I'd like to start by asking the highest. The president whether he intends to attend a meeting with members of the council at half an hour, which is about 1: 00 p.m. Now, or whether the president intends to continue here to give his authority to members of the council and members of the council. Looks like we've come to that place. I come up here first and foremost in protesting the President's words to adjust matters so that there are just the two issues debated on the program because they are prepared from committees. A respectable president. Why aren't cases ready for committee? This is because the greater part holds them hostage. That's why they're not out yet. In fact, a few weeks ago, an issue agreed on would be completed. It is truly remarkable if the president of the Generalis is not going to take any initiative in solving these issues, in agreeing with an agreement made here, that the program is in a way that will make peace. Then the president is not the president of all members of Congress and is obviously showing members of Congress what authority he has in his seat. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u89	A respectable president. I always like it when there's evidence in various decisions and the arguments that were presented by President for the fact that the matter of election age wasn't on the agenda, they were that here had been a long, busy discussion. Then I'd like to ask a president if he expects short and easy discussions about hunting costs. Otherwise, I'd like to say something. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir on the budget plan, she's not up to 2nd. when there are few days left. Are we still going to get involved in another big talk about government finance? Really? We've been driven to do that for election reasons in discussions about budgeting recently, but we have the opportunity now to do it right and do it well and to get a good discussion. [[The president calls.]] No, we're somehow deciding to keep it at the end of the Senate and put two days in it. [[The president calls.]] We're being squeezed up. [[The president calls.]] This sucks.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u90	Mr. President. I'd like to come up here for a minute to discuss which cases are being arranged to be on the program. V.E.G. The president has mentioned why a case has not been entered, i.e. The things I've mentioned here and other things why. Senators on digital carpenters and that document was not distributed until yesterday. I just want to review the issues here. We have a committee view of a change form made by a health committee and we have a committee view of a change form from a global and educational committee. They're both senators' primes. One is on the program today, but the other is not. Our case, the matter of digital carpenters, was completed on May 29th. On May 30, the case of a welfare committee was complete. Yet, the situation today is just one matter, that is, the case of a government platoon that puts the priority ahead of Congress. Of course, it is within the end that it is a matter of Congress at the end. It was distributed last night. [[The president calls.]] The same rules must apply. The program for this assembly is not set aside. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u91	Mr. President. It's amazing to come to this hall after eight years of absence and see how little has changed. I often feel like we're experiencing, as was well described in the Groundhog Day movie, that we're always getting in the same tracks over and over again. It is as if as soon as the birth of a sheep begins, the council's government will be completely eliminated. We see that in four days, we are going to issue a financial program of 5,000 billion, as well as the most extensive change in history's personal protection laws, so to speak, and now the last one is throwing in political mines, which is a reduction in fishing budgets. What kind of thinking is that for the greater part? Aren't they thinking, Mr. President? We're supposed to stop the majority gear. I put hope in the current president of the council, for he has spent most of his life in government opposition. He should know what we're saying. We need to get closer together, we need to have a more efficient conversation between government and government. [[The president calls.]] The nation has called for it, but most of it is running high. It takes two in tango.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u92	The president would like to inform us about the matter of Congress mentioned in the discussion, about digital carpenters, and why it was not scheduled for this meeting: The reason is that the committee was not distributed until today. The words of the president stand, and are correct, that the cases that came from committees and the terms or documents had been distributed before midnight yesterday are on the program for the meeting today.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u93	A respectable president. It seems to me that the messages of the more part of the council to us in my section are simply, "This is mine, I can do this." I do what I want, I don't care what you think. The question, however, is: Where is the professional ambition of more part for careful management? We're talking about cutting up a fishing system in a fishing road in a few days. In the second decade, there has been an argument about this matter. The government itself was going to put it on schedule and in process but, no, here, for some emergency situation, to be said, in the article to put it through the council in a few days, evidently in a confusing conflict. In view of this observational emergency, it is good to bear in mind that in eight years the ocean's own money has increased from 0% to 42%. I think the story was just fine. I am very pleased with how well the article has been doing. What a joy it is for the nation to see how well the fishing work has been done - there is no need for an emergency in this article! In the first four months of this year, the value of exported seafood grew by a third. [[The president calls.]] That is the emergency in this article. Clearly, we need to replace everything else and discuss in particular how to cope with that emergency. I wish that the members of the government would view the situation of other sectors of the country as seriously as they watch the status of a fishing road or an agricultural field.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u94	A respectable president. I must make an observation to the highest. The president has not yet answered what the senators have specifically noted, an agreement that was made before the council stopped because of local elections. Is it not the intention of a respectable president to hold that agreement? That doesn't mean anything for the highest. The president here to state that all issues are on the agenda that have come from committees. The president was well aware of the problem, that these matters were held hostage - on committees. That was the agreement, freeing the case from the hostage so that they could get on a program at the council. V.E.G. The president must have suggested that this agreement be respected, since the minority decided to take a break, even if things did not get out of the way, confident that the proclamation would be granted that immediately after a recess would be released.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u95	The president has reports that several members of the Parliament have been granted financial support and that others are there in the final meters, so the president guarantees that this situation will become clearer in the near future and will monitor it. Of course, it is not in the hands of a president to say why. Committees for action. They're independent of their jobs, as we know.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u96	V.E.G. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. A health minister for receiving my request for this particular discussion. IN THE United States, alcohol - related organizations have become more than 40 years of association in this country. They were founded by people who burned down to set up treatments that helped alcoholics who wanted to escape the serious disease that afflicted man for aeons. All of those involved knew either their own skin or their immediate condition. It is largely attended to the United States, where it also became the AA organization until 1935. As early as the first year of the year, the result was tremendously good, which attracted attention not only to land but also to landstones in many places. A lot of water has run into the sea since then, and the development of drugs and drugs has taken a big turn, but the fundamental issue is the same, alcoholism, and no one can stop their consumption unless he wants to. Because of lack of financial contributions, the UN may not have had the opportunity to react to these changing times. THEY are not a private health worker but a subsidiary organization that became a public society. Alcohol and drug addiction is a condition that can be easily diagnosed. It is the result of repeated use of alcohol and drugs, since complex interactions between genetics and environmental factors can lead to pathological changes in the brain. Today, there are about 700 people on the waiting list for hospitalisation. The growing demand and need for service is accompanied by slow cuts on government donations. This has led to a historical peak in the waiting list, and unchanged over the next ten years between 6 and 7 people who are today between 6 and 25 years of age are being treated for the first time. At the same time, a similar number of subjects with pre-diagnosed dependence will require reimbursement to detoxification. The opportunity we have for attendance is lost while the income and financial resources of the United States fall largely into subsidies in legal health care. In addition, financial resources should be used for the development, innovation, and services that are lacking in the community. To cope with a changed situation, the fact that the hospital's waiting period has increased by 90% in the past five years. This is a serious matter, but what brings you down is the reaction of a minister who speaks of waiting for the Gug being not professional. Because doctors or other professional members have not led people to apply for admissions, these long queues do not provide the correct picture. No one's going to go to the V and for fun. People are dying while waiting for admission, even though no doctor has directed people to the agency. Also, I would like to criticize the calculations of the Minister of Minister to talk about increases in the dollars in the last five years. It is not expected with prices, but when prices are taken into account, it shows that the cost of the event is high. The cost to the hospital at Vogs is 925 million. The cost of treatment at the Viking treatment station is 327 million, but the cost is 219 million. The cost for walking departments is 178 million, with a government rate of 0. Work expenses account for about 70% of the total cost. Our weakest brothers and sisters suffer from treatment agencies that are starving. These things don't have to be invented, they've been often tried in the past few years and usually end up sad. Looking back on prices, financial contributions to the U.N. have dropped over the last five years, the waiting list is getting longer, things get worse, and so we need to act. So in view of the delay in the hospital at Vog, I ask the highest degree. Healthcare Minister: How will the minister respond to the challenge so that those calling for help will receive help? How does the Minister provide additional protection for the U.S. government? Young people have been upset about alcohol and drug treatment. How will the minister react? The head of a unit for the United States and other Member States is experiencing a great lack of funds. What's going to be the highest. A health minister will do to cope?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u97	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Sigurður of Páll Jónsson for asking for a special discussion on the waiting list at the hospital Vig, which Voug is one of the most important treatment centers in the country of alcohol and drug addiction. As shown in my reply to the Senate poll from February. has a waiting list for admission to Vog in the longest in the last few years but what. In particular, the perfunctory asks about some factors associated with a waiting list on the Vog. First, the senator asks how a minister intends to deal with the problems of long waiting lists, making sure that those calling for help are helped. The majority of those on the wait list on Vogi will call themselves and request permission. In addition, formal requests from professionals, e.g. Hospitals and child care committees. Therefore, the list ofprogions is different from waiting in general for health care, where only a professional list of individuals on a waiting list is used. The waiting period on the waiting list to the hospital Vig is variable according to the nature of the problem, and Vogur has emphasized the need for those waiting for it. As a basis for assessing health and social factors for setting a priority. Those who are in the most urgent need are laid in after 7 to 14 days, i.e. Youths under 20 years of age, pregnant women, and individuals who live in poor social conditions. This makes it clear that only one of those waiting for Vogi treatment will have to wait longer than 7◯14 days. Of course, some of those who suffer from alcohol and/or drug abuse also have a serious social problem, so it is important to work together with social resources and health measures to achieve the best results in recovery. To meet this growing problem, I've decided to speed up work on a total conference for the treatment of alcohol and drug problems, and this work is being prepared in the Ministry. It should be noted that the National Hospital also deals with alcohol and drug addiction. It is now important that waiting for Vogi treatment be considered in relation to this. The hospital treats those who are most ill, suffers severe withdrawal symptoms, and acute mental illness. In the past one to two years, there has been a large increase in severe cases of addiction, and this increase has been observed in some cases. has the effect that the demand and the demand have increased in the Land Hospital. Hv. Second, a senator asks how a minister visualizes increasing prevention of the U.S.A. What exactly does the Ministry of Health have made a contract for the treatment of alcohol and drug dependence, but there is no agreement with the UN on prevention in this area? I trust the management and staff of the U.S.A. to assess and plan whether and how the organization has special prophylaxis, but I have stressed the strengthening of damages to measures and prevention in a wide sense. Hv. A senator thirdly speaks of alcohol and drug abuse by young people who are truly upset and who ask me how I intend to react to it. The Ministry of Ministry has been preaching to the lab on June 5th. for which children and young people are affected by a problem with drugs, especially the organized alcohol and drug treatment program for this group. The workshop is invited representatives of those involved in this group, e.g. National Hospital, Child Welfare, Children's Agent, Elnbow Bar, U.S. surgeon's office. I hope that the results of the lab will be one step toward solving the existing position. This week I met a representative of the U.S. surgeon's office to discuss the situation that has come up when it was clear that the U.S.A. was not happy to accept an illegal person for treatment. That meeting was a good one and has previously declared that Voggi will continue to work on this group until there is another remedy in front of you. I trust them very well to do so, regardless of whether FEE will come to that permanent solution or not. The final question of the proverb has been made available to FA and other members who suffer a great financial shortage. In recent years, growing financial support for health care has increased financial resources from the state's budget to the United States in order to meet greater needs, but residences are provisional measures that do not hear under my department, i.e. Not under the health minister. Rather, it is the rural areas that care for these issues. But I am well aware of the importance of these measures, and I have strengthened all destructive measures, such as Mrs. Ragnhelli's project. It is also in preparation, and to mention, the opening of the consumers in cooperation with the city of Reykjavík and the health care of the capital area for the most advanced drug abusers. I hope, a respectable president, that I can come to further comments in a second speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u98	A respectable president. This is an important discussion of serious subjects. paritaprevir Sigurður Páll Jónsson takes the initiative, issues that each family in the country knows in one way or another. Those who have become two or more have been affected, and many decades have observed the changes in attitudes toward alcohol, drugs, and, in many cases, disease. During my childhood, it was the survival of men that becoming drunks, strangling, and perhaps living a lifetime in bondage to drugs was almost some inevitable object, or fate, of becoming a failure of the community, defective copies. Few things could save, except maybe the religion of God. For example, to be saved from the drinkland is still alive in the matter. Much water has flowed to the sea, and attitudes have changed completely. Iceland has been successful in the prevention and management of alcohol and drug abuse, and now the understanding is that no one is really safe, this threat is not objective and precious is trying to cope, to keep everyone on deck, to keep family members together, and to support individuals to normal society activities by means of a professional and targeted approach. From the beginning, premeditated alcohol and drug therapy has been a free association organization, a third sector, however not defined and underestimated, despite its large contribution to welfare and community services. IN THE United States, with its head and shoulders above others in this area, the organization is still at a loss. In addition to the ongoing management problems to deal with challenges, the European Economic Relations Directive has been developed for the implementation of public shopping and invitations which may create an even greater level of insecurity and instability. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister of how it plans with the establishment of this Regulation will continue to ensure custody, firmness and long-term vision of the activities of the UK as well as of other institutions of the so-called Third Area. I hope for a meaningful and satisfying answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u99	V.E.G. President. FEW are examples of personal initiatives that are effective in caring for health care. It is a subversive organization that has proved that they can do professional work for a small coin. True, they are not alone, there are others, and we need to be careful that this important work does not distance us from the groups who are carrying out it. Of course, when discussing a waiting list, we need to consider it in relation to something else; in the context of what service is normal and how much, who can do this too, what others are doing, and what the landspians are doing. I trust a minister of these matters completely and reorganize. They constantly criticize and review what we can do better so that we make the best use of the money. What really matters is that those who face this problem get the full - time service and the financial resources needed to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u100	A respectable president. I appreciate this discussion, she's really needed. A large number of people in Iceland have some form of addiction. The hospital Vogur provides a treatment space for about 60 people and is run by the U.S.A., of course, as it has been shown here, a free non-political organisation, while it is paid under the contract of Iceland's Medical Insurance. There is no denying that Voggi is doing a very important job and has helped countless Icelanders to master their addictions. However, it is our job here to increase the number of people most. There's little variety in treatments available here, and it's shocking for many reasons, including that some may need a dual, even multiple, treatment, e.g. uffer from pre-existing psychiatric conditions. There is also the credible religious tone available in all the treatment options available to Icelanders. Piranus and I have fought against the view that addiction is a health problem that he is unequivocally faced with. It is not appropriate, then, that in this period of our lives, 2018, the only treatment available for this religious emphasis. It is known that this is not for everyone and that some individuals simply do not seek help. Should this service not be part of our basic health care system? That's what I'm pointing to at the highest. A health minister sees that this is not the way she sees it. [[The president calls.]] When I'm here for the second time, I'm going to direct some questions directly to the highest level. Secretary of health.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u101	A respectable president. I appreciate the advisor, huh? paritaprevir He Sigurður Páll Jónsson, taking the initiative in this discussion and in the highest degree. Minister for her answers. Addictions have a broad impact, not only on individuals who have problems, but also on their families and their community. The disease is not impartial and does not ask for any social status or status. Therefore, the service of SOUTH is very valuable to the community. The fact is that many deaths are directly attributed to alcohol or other drugs. Then there are countless people's health problems that confront all the environment and the community. The disease is a complex disease that has to be processed in cooperation with professionals. Therefore, support for the resources available, such as the hospital Vogur, is of great importance. It is also important to look to many factors, e.g. The situation of those living with this disease and multiplicity of resources. In particular, I would like to mention mature people who seem to be a little on the sideline or just not inside this system and are very difficult to find options for this group. So I want to encourage the highest. A minister when he calls to this conversation, which I find very important and happy, on the issues of children and young people who have a problem with drug abuse, to be specifically looked at the alcohol and drug abuse systems for this group and to direct it to the highest level. Minister to specifically call this group's pleas. A respectable president. This issue is important to all of us, so it is very important that we support our resources and look to all these groups as well as to establish a policy of public health and prevention.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u102	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for bringing up this matter of my heart. I'd like to allow myself to think that not one Icelandic family has someone dear to her, close to her, who has struggled with addiction and has had to seek help from the U.S.A. That's right. That's right. Níelsson This is an example of successful personal initiative. Actually, it is safe to say that there is no institution or public agency that can get with its toes, where the WAU has the heels of knowledge and professionalism when it comes to putting your arms around and helping our addicts. How, though, is the real situation today? What is the situation today when we are talking about the waiting lists for help that have never been longer? Still, we're still having a conversation. Yet, some professional groups are still being called together and having a conversation about what to do. How many people are dying on hold while we're talking about what to do? Although we're not talking about the fishing costs now and their reduction, it's reason to point out that only 10% of the 3 billion people currently lowering the fishing costs to the output, just 10% of that amount would completely change all the status of adolescents and addicts of Iceland and help the U.S. really want to put their arms around them and spend these checks one, two and three. Why not? Would that not be a more beautiful dream than the reality we face today?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u103	Mr. President. First, I'd like to thank the advisor for the discussion and the highest. Minister, too. It is sobering to think that we are here in the same situation that when the verbal conversation of a waiting list was discussed at the highest. Secretary of the 5th of March. And we're no closer. The situation has gotten worse, the waiting lists are still increasing, and the situation is still serious. I wondered if it's even. because the list of waitings doesn't exist on a professional basis, like the highest level. A minister then mentioned in the discussion. I wondered if the right way is for people to go through a hospital only. Is that the way to fit into the box? True, there is often an emergency, and it is possible to send people on to the appropriate measures, as they call them. I believe it is very clear that the services that the U.S.A. provides are undeniably based on a professional basis. It meets professional requirements, and it seems to me to be successful, as in other health care professionals. That's why I want to direct that question to the highest level. Minister if it's the right official way to go through an emergency room. Whether a person is professionally respected or not, he must consider what has gone on before he wishes to help. When will we find these real measures? What's your chief plan? Ministers do in this position?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u104	A respectable president. My name is Sir Kolbeinn, and I'm an alcoholic. This is how I regularly introduce myself to other meetings but here are and may not have to wonder if the subject that lies underneath is of no concern to me. I have personally been on the wait list at Vogi, which I thought was super long, but in view of what was going on. paritaprevir Sigurður Páll Jónsson said earlier that no one can stop drinking unless he wants to, yet I waited a long wait. I've driven people to Gog, I've brought them there when they're done with it, but also when they graduate themselves. I have even driven it back there once again after changing his mind and wanting the help they needed so desperately. I don't know if this makes me incompetent during the discussion. I hope not, at least I burn a great deal on the subject. I know that the service given to the Vogi can give people a new life and is a eloquent example. People can feel what they want about how I live my new life, I'm not sure that everyone in this room would agree with me completely with it, but at least I had the chance to make a decision and choose how it would be done. Thus, I will always support our support and support the good work being done at Vogi. In itself, no matter what it is called, a long - term service contract, special action, support, or support, just to be strengthened, it is possible to provide the necessary services and vital services there. I trust the highest. A health minister is well - versed in this matter, and she is given my support.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u105	A respectable president. Thank you so much for your need for this discussion. Thank you. paritaprevir Páll Jónsson's victory over bringing up both the state of the U.S.A. and the state of the treatments in Iceland and the status of young addicts. I believe we need to handle the matter firmly. I welcome answers to the highest. Health Minister on the problem of young addicts in Iceland. I'd also like to encourage the highest. A health minister to take the idea a little further, even to deal with the present serious problems, especially those of young addicts. Like the senator mentioned here in the discussion about a month ago, there is an absolute emergency. 20 times this year, youths under the age of 18 have been turned away from emergency treatment on BUGL. Those who look there are in the middle of a lifetime. For emergency care, there is no alternative available. 20 times it has been necessary to dismiss the young, just this year. It's totally disturbing in our good society. Never before had more people waited for a spot in Vogi in January, 570, than was announced a month ago by the U.S.A. Of course, it needs to be done better than just keeping a lab, we need to handle this matter firmly, and I'm impressed. Minister to proceed immediately.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u106	A respectable president. I come here to accept the encouragement of those who have spoken before to the highest degree. Secretary of health. So it seems that the CFE director of the U.S.A. came to the branch office yesterday and informed us that they needed 300 million or so in order to maintain a sacred service. These 300 million are, in effect, the same amount of money that is missing if the service contract - or the price of the service contract that is based on ten years old, I think - would have been updated with prices since it was made. There are 300 million missing. I am absolutely convinced that the government is not offering a better alternative to treating a patient with this disease than the U.S.A. It'll even come. This is because SABE activity is fundamentally trimmed. It is the hospital of Vogur, which costs some 925 million a year to run. The government's development is nearly 700 million, so they are paying part of a mental and volunteer group, about 200 million with Vogi. The treatment station costs about 330 million less. That's the government's supply of 219. There the organization pays over 100 million. There is no government contribution in Reykjavík. I just want to agree with the people who have described that I think the state and health authorities just don't get into a better moat than this. The medical bills at Vogi are 40. K. Is there a better spot anywhere than this for hospital treatments in sick people?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u107	A respectable president. I'm going to start with the tone I ended up in the last place. In view of our serious health problems here, health problems that affect countless people in this country, should this service not be a larger part of the basic services available to the Ministry of Health? There is no doubt that there is and there is a question about the integrity and integrity of those in charge there. It has been noted many times that they have a wonderful job to do. However, this does not mean that we here must not ask questions that focus on the interests of sick people, those who have a drug problem. I'm going to direct some questions to the minister. They come in a little bit and wait, but I know they're the best. A health minister just picks them out. I know the highest. Health Minister, what are the priorities of Vogi's waiting list? I know the highest. Health Minister how many people on this list have died each month? How do the proportions of the sexes share on the list? What is the position of children in this context? How many of the users listed return to treatment at the end of the wait? Is the ministry good enough in foreign context? There is little or no variety here in Iceland in the treatment of drug addicts. It's the highest. A health minister with any idea of how she can, in the strength of her office, increase that variety? [[The president calls.]] Is there any supervision for treatment options available to Icelanders? Finally, I want to thank you again for the discussion and say that people in Iceland who have a serious drug problem have too few proverbs in this room. [[The president calls.]] But I really hope that these people have a saying in the highest measure. Secretary of health. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u108	The president wants to make a decision to give a speech lesson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u109	V.E.G. President. I thank the advocate of this need for discussion. The situation is that serious addictions have increased. There is a truly serious situation that cannot be accepted. Obviously the result is an increasing pressure on the U.S.A., an institution that allows for the treatment of individuals suffering from alcoholism. This work depends on the complexity of the disease and can be treated in conjunction with professional personnel. It performs a tremendously good and professional job, and the treatment is based on medical analysis. The individual and his circumstances are in first place. The work that has long ago proved itself to be a model in many parts of the world. V.E.G. President. As mentioned, to achieve the best results, it is important that social and health resources be used to achieve the best results. A surgeon stresss the harmony of the World Health Organization and the government's policy on public health. If he's heading for alcohol and drugs until 2020, one of the priorities of the government is to emphasize prevention and public health. That's good. Prophylaxis team is a walking distance, but the service contract for the SAU was quit in 2014. Visits there are about 28,000 each year. So I'd like to come up with some questions. Does a minister have any plans to support this service, which could help others, reduce their need, and influence a waiting list? A report from the U.S.A. indicates that the organization has paid from its collection funds for their medical services. Is there any change there to be expected? Then I'd like to point out that the organization itself has funded specialized psychological services with children who are involved in addictions. This is an important preemptive project for high risk groups. Does a minister see any point in supporting this important aspect?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u110	A respectable president. The situation is that it is very serious in the hospital business of Vigs this summer and they are reporting summer closures. They have a magnificent treatment station up in Viking, newly created, and enlarged, that can include more, which can help others, which is to close now on June 23 through August 6. While they wait to get there, what do many die? Let's see. Hope in Top Search 7 in Reykjavík will be closed from July 9 to August 17. Hofskopt 4, she closes from July 9 to July 20, August 6 to August 17, September 3 to September 7. A respectable president. I'm kind of speechless that this could be happening on our watch. Impulse addiction is the most dangerous disease among young people in Iceland today. That fact is evident in repeated tragic reports of the premature death of a number of drug addicts. Don't you think it's time to hook up, a respectable president, and meet our people and help them when they need us? We also see, just as shown in the history of the highest. The chairman of a financial committee, the fact is that they desperately need funding so that they can follow the good work being done there and the cure and help that our people need. I say, why don't we just skip lowering our hunting fees and help our addicts?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u111	Mr. President. Everyone can have a problem with addiction, including prisoners. Most of all prisoners, but the service is not open to them. The directors of the United States are aware of the need for prisoners to be treated, such as other health care professionals and, according to one report, would like to have such a job. What is lacking is a contract on the work structure, professional assessments and plans that meet the relevant laws, the Rapporteur's requirements to provide the resources of this addiction. With this, I certainly don't want to turn my attention to the court lists of Vogi and alcohol and drug treatments of young people and the fact that this treatment is upset. The situation is that there is a persistent deficiency of the whole health system for people with addictions. All extramarital and services to these patients of the U.S.A. are now much beyond what the government pays. There's no agreement in terms of walking services. A retreatment service contract for Vikings in Kjalarnesi ran out in December 2011 and has not been renewed since. Government contributions to the treatment area have dropped since 2009, but the cost of operating has taken place, and hopefully we are all aware that the demand is not reducing. As a result, each year the only service given in the country, the United States, is driven by a tilt, and its operating grounds are uncertain, as the examples show. V.E.G. A health minister has not kept his position secret that public health services should be increasing. At that time, the public has a lot to do with the ministry. IN THE United States, there is expertise, there is experience, and there is an environment that cannot be found anywhere else in the country. It simply needs to be cared for for by Jón in the Hostage, for our young people, for prisoners, and for anyone in need of this service.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u112	V.E.G. President. Thank you so much for this discussion, and thank the Minister again and again for being here. It has been interesting to listen to members of the Parliament talk about treatment problems and the waiting list at Vogi. I felt like for a moment I'm already at an AA meeting when it happened. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otttirsson Proppé stepped in Pontu because I'm called Siggi Palli, and I'm an alcoholic. I've been in the AA organization for 24 years, and I had God's power to get out of alcohol addiction with the U.S.A. to be said here in front of the whole nation. I'm very proud to be able to say that. You see, for example, I sometimes found myself wandering in front of TV a lot of years ago watching the ethic, envying members of the Parliament so hard as to talk to the people and the council hall, thinking: " How much fun it would be to be so slanted like these senators! So a few years later, I'm here, talking from a punk and I'm pretty straight in my back. Thanks to that, I got help from the U.S.A., U.S.A. Secretary of health. I believe that, and I trust that these parts of the program will do what I expect. Many things have come out, and many things I would have wanted to discuss much better. Hv. paritaprevir Páll Magnússon came into a mollusk, that it would be a good spot and cheap to lie in Vogi. It is practical for people to get help and to get back to work, but it is not public, either in the sewer or in the institutions. Thank you for this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u113	A respectable president. Thank you for a very good discussion. There are a few things I would like to try and kill in the seconds I have here. First of all, ask me why. paritaprevir The Brjánsson's vision of firmness in the environment of such institutions, especially those driven by botanical organizations or other similar organizations. I agree with the importance of invisibility. At the same time, we need to be sharpened, i.e. The government, in which we would like to meet our services, what results we want to see, and that it is in relation to and on the basis of the overall conference of the issue. It goes with alcohol and alcohol abuse like anything else. I want to point 'em. paritaprevir Sara Elísa Þórðardóttir's daughter is to make a written inquiry about this detailed information. I don't have them in a quick room, but they're important and they need to come out. I thank you for the encouragement of many members of the council here during this discussion at the end and also agree with the view that this is, of course, a very broad problem. He's growing in Icelandic society. At the same time, we need to understand the interaction between this type of mental and mental disorder and the general health problems we face, as well as the connection between drug problems and past experiences in life. All of this is linked, and we need to face it. I'd like to say, too, in the end that I have strong confidence in the expertise that has been collected in the United States. I am very happy with the communication I have had with professional people there, especially when we are talking about how we need to meet our young addicts because that is what we have to do every day. We certainly need to take care of that. I wish I had more time to discuss these matters than thank you. Again and again, a member of the body of elders before taking the initiative.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u114	Mr. President. The word on the President's conference board is that there is no word on the President's conference board. No changes will be made on the schedule. The fishing bill, which makes a fortune beyond any available groups, is to be rushed across a contract to treat this body of Congress in a nonsenseing conflict between government and government opposition. I cannot help but strongly object to this paradox, this complete lack of cooperation and reconciliation on the part of a president. It's not okay, it's not likely to work out now that we want to finish our jobs here for the summer. This is not likely to cause us any interest in reaching any agreement, since there seems to be no one willing to respect it above our heads. What agreement should we make with the government and with our president if we cannot trust that he will fulfill his promises? I hope that the president will change his mind on his firm and inconspicuous stand and urge him to withdraw the matter immediately.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u115	Mr. President. We're here to experience pride, hard work, and rudeness to the lesser parts. Despite the stated aims of better practice, it is best to go ahead. Now the country's stress notes are falling into houses. Well, it's been quite a year with hired people in the country. There may be some who have to pay some of the money afterward. The economy, on the other hand, has gone to dollars and hard this year, and it can be expected that payers will receive less in their next envelopes. May we expect the ultimate. The government corrected the interests of these people, like those who set themselves on top of the news above the country's highest taxpayers, i.e. The structure? It sucks to witness. They're supposed to be making the most of them in society, and they've had their last compensation, but the common people are left behind. We'll protest it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u116	A respectable president. We went here to meet with the president, the council members, some time ago; half past one, 15 minutes at a time, something like that. We had the hope that at that meeting something would happen, something will become clear. At least I was hoping that the president would say that he was willing to accept the agreement made three or four weeks ago. No, not bofs. There was no word from the president about that. Not a word about the president's being expedient. We're still in the same place, huh? Councilmen, wondering how this council should be completed, how to proceed. It is not pleasant to have Congress cases planned in the way this is done. We can have a wide range of opinions on the matter, the content, but it's the work that we're doing here. This will simply be so that we will continue to criticize the president of the Generals, critical of the Senate until the matter is resolved. Because it's annoying.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u117	A respectable president. It's sad to have to take part in these awful tactics. It is also quite remarkable if we think that this is offered by a left green, declared welfare party, which prefers to lower taxes, spells, in wealth, but avoids improving their ideals in society. I'm amazed that on their watch there's depth and gaps between the rich and the poor. That is why I say, " I feel sad about the position we see now. ' Instead of being happy that this is a declared well - being class, we look at it in complete contrast.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u118	Mr. President. It has been found that the priority of this government is to reduce the price of hunting. It is such a priority that even if there are other major matters, it is not important to try to keep peace in the council during the last days before vacation. Lowering the price of the fishing project is the priority of the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. So fishing costs are due two years back. Two years ago, the production was making good profits. Some of them were tempted to make good money even though they knew that fishing costs would now be paid at the post two years ago. And members of the Generals now plan to run along with them so that they can make any amount of money this year as well as not have to pay the full amount of money. [[The president calls.]] It's a scandal, Mr. President, that this is the priority of the Government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u119	Mr. President. This is an amazingly strange message we receive from the government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter. They want us to set aside everything else to discuss how we are going to reduce the price of hunting, the expenses paid for hunting on our common property, about 3 billion at the same time that we cannot think about and make proper repairs and children's families, not uplifting our child's welfare. I see at the top. This discussion is guided by a minister. But, you know, I think it's absolutely necessary that we be discussing this. Why is this a priority? Why is this happening on the program when we could be using ourselves for all kinds of national contracts? Perhaps it would be a waste of time if it were the highest. Prime Minister would not allow himself to be present at a council hall and to listen. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u120	Mr. President. I hope the voters and the public realize what's going on here today, why the Senate operation is all over the place. That's because these government groups, these three government groups, want to lower the fishing fees, do it during the last three days of the council. These three groups are ready to upset everything to lower the fishing costs on an article that has been making a fortune in recent years. At the same time, these groups have recently submitted to the government's suggestions on the increase in money for the elderly, disability, child support, interest improvements, etc. It's very strange to look over the hall and see. Where's the chairman of the left green? Where's the chairman of the Independence Party? Where's the seafaring minister? Where's the bottom line? A health minister, who used exactly the same words we use to criticize what was to be brought in here the reduction of fishing licenses in his day? At that time, she was in a position of government. She's in charge now. Why don't these people show up at the Senate Hall? They are chosen to live up to their word. [[The president calls.]] It is shameful for a person to be hiding in a side room or in some Minister's room, afraid to meet a Senate and speak to this matter, which is to make every effort to penetrate during the last days of the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u121	Mr. President. I don't understand for my little life why we always end up in that position year after year, and even at the end of each part of the year, that governments can't present themselves early in their affairs, cooperate with them, and just be honest with things. We now face the fact that one of the government's primary objectives appears to be to increase the budget of the major projects at the expense of all other objectives, yet there are quite a number of those that have been presented here. Somehow we are made to say yes and amen and accept the matter with no advance and no discussion, not a reasonable discussion at all, that is not possible. An experiment to a reasonable discussion was made on a professional committee yesterday. It didn't go very well because the case was being torn out. No, Mr. President. We're supposed to be doing more than we're supposed to be doing. I've been visiting a lot of council members last year, and I've always asked, "How do you solve a conflict? [[The president calls.]] No one has sighed in the way people here sigh when asked about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u122	A respectable president. We are simply faced with a government that is not afraid to represent its case here in the Senate Hall when it comes to driving through the council in its final meters of high priority, rather disguises it as a committee case, and when it does not function as the majority, it is to be driven contrary to condemnation. You ask yourself: " Is this behavior being done because people do not trust that the matter will be misapplied from the three councils? Is there any sign of light in it in reducing the income of the Icelandic public from its resources? I completely refuse that this is about us, who here protest these incorrigibly hard work, because we do not have the company or the country's interests at heart. Far from it, for this has been proposed, much better, democratic, and more powerful suggestions for solving these matters. But we do. [[The president calls.]] We'll drive them through as more of a committee when we get there, because it's our new way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u123	President. By now the government groups must have realized that this matter, the matter of reducing the price of hunting, would be bombed here at the Senate on the last record. What I find most seriously in this is that they seem to care exactly. It doesn't seem to matter. A good cooperation is of no greater importance than making use of the majority of the resources to force affairs here on the last records of the council. The last government can have what it has in these matters, and it was most likely because of the president of that time. He worked hard to be president of the entire council, and he wanted the Senate work done well. So I'm directed to the current president to take care of the entire council. I find it obvious to press on to the end of the council in the power of the greater part, and that the president of the council is going to allow it to pass. It's under the cover of the President. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u124	A respectable president. It's a priority in hide-and-seek. This is marked by the fact that everyone is shielding themselves behind someone. Everyone's somehow pretending to be somebody else. The large structure of the land, the wealthy one, is covering behind small and medium - size productions, some of which certainly need support. There's no one here who's doubting it. The government is also covering its priorities in its hideouts. She's hiding behind a professional committee. But if the government thinks she's totally unspotted from this case, that's a misunderstanding. The government has this case in its own hands, and this case will follow her all the time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u125	A respectable president. Now I have just entered this role temporarily under a government government government that is now at the government, where the left greens themselves serve in the government. So I have no reputation of becoming on day three or four to witness the incorrigibly incredulous tactics that are going on here. It's like a bad joke that now, already heading for a Senate hearing, the government throws down the fishing fees on a table to the whole U.S. Congress. It's just a joke. Does the government really think it's the highest? The President of the Generals that this is a priority for the nation? Is it that hard to remember for who is being worked in here or to work for? It's the people. The reduction in hunting costs is not the priority for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u126	President. There's obviously little interest in the highest. A president seeking reconciliation at the council, and in fact, this matter will be understood only to make a determined offense a reality. The matter is presented in this way to cause a disturbance at the council, perhaps to cover up the fact that the government has so few issues to make. At least we can handle the discussion. It is interesting to see that the range of exports is relaxed. Then let's discuss it, discuss the crews of the Crown, discuss real action, attack the root of the problem, what we can do to support all the exports of the country, make them more stable. You see, it was perfect foreseeing in the population fishing system. It was absolutely known that the pay period of good years would come, even though less years might be on the move right now. It is surprising to see this in the cover of a committee. [[The president calls.]] The government does not even have the courage to do so itself. It is an amazing lack of man's worth in this matter and an amazing effort toward the council to have some serious intention of discussing this matter with as short as it really is for the end of the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u127	Mr. President. Government policy has never been clearer than today. Just before the Senate closes, it throws a bomb into the Council to check $3 billion. to people who have lived under overcrowded conditions over the past few years, profit and profit, and profit, far beyond the cost of fishing. It used to be the bank tax. This did no less than lowering him, and not about 20, not about 30, not about 40, not about 50, not about 60 - no, more than 60%, Mr. President. That didn't do any less. This was no less than reducing the bank tax by more than 60%, e.g. Senators of the left green, who are now involved in this while making a request that the case for the elderly and the desperate get out of the committees. The people may know this. This is a class with a dignified background, including the labor movement. [[The president calls.]] 1% decrease in the lower level of income taxation should cover the entire scale and also use those with the highest income. [[The president calls.]] We also know the meaning of the expression "Environment " here. [[The president calls.]] Those are empty words.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u128	A respectable president. We've got a lot of calls here for senators of the left green. I think that might be because a lot of the other two categories are not expected, so conscientiously, at least. But I believe there have been eight cases removed from the committees. There's a matter of annual accounting, land cover, climate, criminal treatment, fishing management, rural law, and now fishing fees. A man has heard of a different case that is supposed to come and solve as a government case. It's a little bad that some committee is trying to sort out some government thing for some formal vow against which the government is too late to go through the council. Overall, this looks a little strange. All of this seems to be done to avoid discussion. There are a lot of initials loaded into the council, they are sent to a committee, and they are not taken care of until all the last days, which means that there is no time for serious discussion, which is 2 Timothy 3: 1. Around, on all the issues, on the huge issues, on financial plans, on GDPR, etc. Big deal. There should be no time to discuss them. You're just supposed to negotiate, rip 'em off, don't talk about it. [[The president calls.]] There's nothing for the General to say. Then, over and over again for billions of people last year, we are constantly correcting the law. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u129	Mr. President. V.E.G. Governments don't have the guts to bring a bill into the Senate for a reduction in hunting fees. Is that a correct claim? Or is it that at the government table there is a disagreement about the reduction of hunting fees, and that's why the government itself doesn't bring the bill into the council? Is that true? Is it true that there is no unity among all members of the government, so it is not possible to pass a drop of fishing fees through the government and the normal way through the council and then into the council? Is that why the greater part of the board needs members on a professional committee? What's right about this? We do not know, but one thing is that more of the committees are to be taken first into the council program has never been an agreement. [[The president calls.]] It is either a matter of agreement to handle the matter in the first place. Environment, or the matter, is a matter of Congress and will enter a series or an agreement between members of Congress. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u130	A respectable president. I've twice asked the highest. The president, whether he intends to betray the agreement made on the smaller section here before intermission. It was a formal arrangement. You must wonder what the highest view is. The following will be considered by the president if he believes that an agreement is not needed. Tells you the highest. Mr President that it will help us reach a conclusion in the future? Or maybe even imagine it. Can you negotiate again what was done in the past? I don't understand how the administrative part is going to approach these matters at the end of Congress if the people are going to begin after a break in breaking the agreement taken immediately before recess.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u131	Mr. President. We are being compared to the fact that we need to respond to bad water supply in the fishing road and to reduce the cost of fishing. I'm going to recall that one year's profits in fishing companies were higher than the combined seven years of fishing. Let's take another year, 2013. In that year, the cost of fishing was higher than all the fishing expenses that flow to the State in the seven - year period. One indication of how this article shows that a government bank is financing a one - make man's price for $22 billion. The loan is so high that if it is higher, it could threaten the bank's personal capital. Is that possibly why you run this thing through? Or is it just a masquerade-free lobsterism that's going to work out the way it's going to be the worst, or should I say, "The best, the greatest, the ever." Is the big marketing industry a priority or the public? [[The president calls.]] Are tax lines a priority or patients? A man asks himself, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u132	A respectable president. That's interesting. Left greens are not limited to forward groups of halting a variety of national torn points. No. They are directly sifted as blood dogs in the committees to stop the bills intended to improve the interest of the elderly and the disability; and they are seen as dogs to stop matters that have been widely met until now; they are appointed to use bullies in the committees. Instead of working with them, they are also in the lead on a reduced fishing fee, which I think has not been high on the left green policy list.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u133	Mr. President. This is an interesting discussion of how the work at the General Assembly is being done these days. We will discuss here in the first session of the reign of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, how we will set priorities for the most important matters that this new government is going to bring through the council. Here, on the final meters, the government, under the cover of a greater part of the employment committee, will happen to be with the Chairman. paritaprevir The Magnúsdóttir Electric Rafney of Magnústirs, on the head of the line, in the form of a bomb in total opposition to all previous contracts that have been made that way has not been seen. You do not realize how the government can use the President of the Generals in this way and thus push aside many other matters that are very important to pass through the council. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Mr. President, are these decent tactics?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u134	Mr. President. We live in an interesting time, or I'll let it go. It must hurt a sense of dignity for any person who has a sense of justice or a sense of dignity to face such a situation. What would those thousands of people be thinking that might be watching this broadcast at home in the living room? That is exactly what our clients, perhaps primarily elderly and desperate. Those we're supposed to be working for and correcting the poorest terms. But now we will give up large amounts of money that we could set aside for this group. Let's take good care of ourselves. They're not decent work. I'm an honor and a party to the Generals. What a misdemeanor.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u135	Mr. President. I'm a man of the highest character. A seafaring minister who is afraid to contribute this bill himself, and the highest. Governments afraid to discuss it at government meetings and leave it at the council. When the government was criticized in the first few days for bringing together three special interests, they were completely offended. But what's coming on the day? What is this matter of something other than special? Now I want left green to come to my senses. Left green? The green word is natural in the last days of the council and left - it is out of the weather and wind if they do not stand up now and protest this in the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u136	Mr. President. It is often that in the face of disagreements and situations that seem out of control, people tend to talk about it as a crisis. In the event of crisis, they suffer from post-cipitating crisis, i.e. they take it firmly and try to solve the problems they face, try to prevent, or reduce the damage that is going to occur, or is predictable. In an effort to minimize the reputation that humans may have, men try to reduce the reputation of what they see. It's all right here in front of us. I'd like to encourage the highest. To begin with, the president of this case aims to improve the quality of the crisis before it gets worse. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u137	V.E.G. President. I come up here to the President's conference board to show that I've been here several times at the end of the council, and when I realized that there's some sort of business going on, some details on how things were going to be done, I thought, "Can't you just take it by number, as long as it's taken over to the council? But well, it was not done, nor was it now after a new government, although she spoke of a change in business. That was a pact for the House election. I've made a record of the agreement made with the President and the greater part on the issues in my section that are trapped in committees, whether or not to keep that promise. [[The president calls.]] Then I'm going to give a cent in return and e.g. Local selection analysis of a national hospital and such. Should not these promises be fulfilled? [[The president calls.]] That's part of the deal, isn't it?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u138	A respectable president. V.E.G. Of course, a government and a dignified president is a pity to work out the position that exists between the governments. The situation today and the reason why we are standing here and speaking to the President's conference board is that the governments, especially green ones, and independent groups, disagree completely on this matter. That's why the bill comes in this way, as bad as they are, because I would have liked to have a thoughtful discussion about the flaws of the hunting fee system and in what ways we could bring it to a better source. I know there's no one in today's development who speaks against hunting costs, but it's a project, the calculation, that we should have more time to discuss and fix, because there's a lot to make up for. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u139	President. When it comes to taxation, whether it is an individual or a professional life, the availability of the prowess is enormously important, that it is not being experimented with things in the way it is completely unpredictable and that it is known to be leaped into what the previous governments have done. That is why we talk about trying to get some sort of cross - political conclusion in such important matters. When it comes to the fishing talk, it is clear that there are conflicting opinions there. I can say with what. Ólason I'm sure there's a lot more to go about in the present system. But trying to do such a thing in political opposition, fierce political opposition, and flubber, trying to change the system in a few days, is not an acceptable method of action. It is clear, though, that the intention of the ruling parties is firm in this. There is no way to let our power of reason dominate us. [[The president calls.]] This should be thrown through, and the left green has been assigned to resolve the matter despite criticism of similar practices during the last terms. This isn't for the Senate. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u140	A respectable president. You wonder why everything is being let on fire and joke during the last days of the council. Why does the government abandon its reputation in spite of such weak, powerless attempts to hide? What Is at Risk? Or perhaps the information presented in Deloitte's marine research for 2016 was presented in October 2017, which says, on permission of the president: Since 2010, the annual budget for fishing is 65.8 billion. Their money since collapse has improved by 300 billion dollars. This is the case in October 2017. But it's obvious where the government finds its partners. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u141	V.E.G. President. Because we don't have any other options, we don't have any other government officials come up here. We've come up here to put a lie to death, and we've come up here to find the promises of betrayal. The government has betrayed its promises to promote the Council in a memorable way, walking on a program like an elephant in a glass warehouse. So we must resist. I remind you of my two questions to the highest level. President this morning. I asked about two of the Central Party cases held hostage in committees, i.e. the localisation of a national hospital and the removal of insurance insurance from an index. I'm waiting for the highest. The president who now contacts the hostages and tries to get these matters resolved from the prison so that we can take them up to a material conversation here in the Assembly Hall. There seems to be some difficulty and some fear of these matters, but we need to talk about them here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u142	Mr. President. I hate dishonesty, and I hate falsehood, and I hate it when I and the people around me are betrayed. In such cases, however, you wonder where the betrayal comes from. In this case, with this particular bill, it is normal to report that it is not a professional bill developed there but from the Ministry Department. Kristján King Þór, son of Júlíusson, a seafaring and agricultural minister. He hasn't been seen here very often in the past few months. It is very interesting to consider his record as Minister. He has provided exactly seven prime warnings for every assembly he has been a minister, exactly two Parliamentary decrees. It is almost as if he is trying to keep a form. When that form is not suitable, because for some reason the government has to accept something, add something that is not right, try to push it through a committee. [[The president calls.]] This is a problem because marine economist and agricultural ministers are expected to handle these matters. [[The president calls.]] He is to be responsible for these matters, and it should not matter how many subjects he has laid down. [[The president calls.]] He's supposed to be doing his job and carrying political responsibility for things himself instead of trying to let others shovel his shit behind him.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u143	Mr. President. We'll discuss what I think it is safe to call the government's maskless interest guard, but that is, even though there were various means to disguise it. Some in this hall are surprised, others are not, and most certainly no one after that day. I'd like to discuss the job of the council. There are some council members, the highest. Ministers and executives of the administrations have been standing here in a public chair, making fun of and mocking the inquiry of members of the state's stand on behalf of various issues. I don't think there's much more to be said about the respect of the council now than to ask why. paritaprevir The answer will be for the son of Björn, the Leví of Gunnarsson. It's directed to the President and it reads: ▪ What are some rules and regulations regarding the activities of the council? I sincerely believe that after that dark day, nothing matters more to the Congress than to get an honest answer to that question, trust the highest. Mr. President will see to it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u144	Mr. President. As it has become clear, here we will discuss a set priority for the government. We'll see that it's going to take a second round. a financial program next week, but this case will affect it exactly. Would it not have been natural to start at that end? We see that the government is more concerned with transporting 3 billion on a silver plate than with completing its national budget. She is more concerned with transporting the project 3 billion on a silver plate than with completing the regular personal protection program that has to be completed. It is more urgent to give the project 3 billion on a silver charge than to run out of general employment market discrimination because of disability, religion, background, or other factors. The same can be said of general discrimination laws that will also pass through the council. All of these work ahead of us and for that we have three valid days left. [[The president calls.]] But this case, 3 billion for the development, it comes first.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u145	A respectable president. A few days before I'm in pain for the council, and I'm hurting for the people. In the leading of the last total elections, the people spoke highly of improving morals, improving practices, improving consultations, and cooperation with the smaller parts of the council. Speak up with the people to whom they attended their commission and would accept their commission. Now, several days before the Senate hearing, this case is presented, lowering hunting costs, under the premise that it is urgent national interest to be completed. Nobody buys this. There's no one in here stupid enough to buy this shit. In fact, I allow myself to question the fact that governments themselves believe that the situation at the disposal is so bad that it is the most urgent case for the country and the nation. [[The president calls.]] It makes me think about the government. Where is she? If she is convinced that this is the most urgent issue that needs to be considered right before the Senate hearing, why doesn't she have a basis for speaking? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u146	A respectable president. Now I have to admit that I may not have realized that the fishing bill had been won by the highest level. Minister and Ministry. I just have to admit that I had missed it. The more unusual it is for a minister not to be here himself to recommend the case, rather than put it in his hands at the right time. A professional commission to do that. You wonder why. I say, like some senators, where on earth is the highest. High school minister? He is well - known for coming to sea during summers, perhaps on vacations and going to sea with his companions in the north. I don't know. A respectable president. I call again to see if the president would agree with an agreement when men make such an agreement. There's no answer to the President about that. The president has not answered. Rather, he intends to use the means to keep what was agreed here a few weeks ago. It's a simple question, a respectable president. I must expect the highest. The president will answer whether the president, under the authority of his office, will promote these matters rather than show his authority here in the chamber. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u147	Mr. President. It is vivid that at the same time in committees for those who are in their palaces, the reduction in fishing costs is on the agenda. The committees hold out issues that are about to enable older people to make money without being affected by problems related to the fact that, due to disability or old age, those who need special assistance, under social assistance, are not reduced left, in the back, and before, because of tax reforms now committed, as is the case with any other income. These cases remain firm while the government is cheering much better to the far superior authorities. In the past, the government has described that it wants to lower the bank tax by more than 60% and wants a decrease in income taxes above the entire range of revenues, so that even 6 million are allowed. K. Humans benefit. [[The president calls.]] It's a clear policy. [[The president calls.]] It's not like it's the way you treat the government. You must ask yourself, " What is the point of these parties'comments on how things can be handled through the council? ' [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u148	Wait a minute. Senators, watch out for deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u149	Mr. President. I come up here like everyone else and express my amazement at these tactics. I must ask if what we witness today is one of the unwritten rules. I admit I thought the above question was a little silly when I first read it, but now I'm standing here and saying, "There's a full need for this inquiry. I'd appreciate it if the President of the Generals could tell us what's really going on. Is this one of the unwritten rules? I am aware that the president of the council will set up a program. This means that the President will establish the council program for the entire body of Congress. I hope he starts answering us something. We're discussing the bill between here and it'd be great if it was the highest. A secular minister would see fit to participate in that discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u150	A respectable president. I'd like to mention that in the very speech of May 9, the president said that there are many things presented here that rich people would like to observe. Therefore I asked what the unwritten rules were, to keep them. I'd like to refer to other words that have fallen into this chair, that is, to swallow the vomit. I'd like to ask which members of the government are supporting this case, according to their own convictions, according to the constitution, without swallowing the vomit? Then I've heard an excuse that it's because of a groundwork policy to reduce the price of hunting. But when has the eating system been good for the settlements of the country? I really do ask. On these conscientious officers, with the argument that based on the basis of this system, I ask: Who do members of the government support the bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u151	A respectable president. There are a lot of people out there who are desperate, who are terrified because they have been hurt. At the same time as we're talking about coming through a bill for the poetry, I'm telling you, at $3 billion, I'm asking the members of the government to explain to me how in very person it's going to work to pay more than he gets. He's supposed to have 33 of you. K. paid in a month from the government insurance agency, but pay back 48 points. K. If someone wants to explain to me how this person should do this, I would love to hear that explanation. It's completely impossible. At the same time, we're talking about trampling through the bill for the poetry, people who are very rich. I just ask, Is it not possible to squeeze through something for the worse and really need it and not be able to pay? [[The president calls.]] No one can pay 48 you. K. of 33 Thoust. K.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u152	President. This is to force the subject on the program and most likely through the council in a nonsenseing conflict in the power of the greater part. I wondered what it will be like for the government. We also have a number of cases of government that are in a lot of baloney disagreements to be settled from a committee. Is it also the thought of forcing them into the power of the greater part? Is it the cooperation that has already been proclaimed? I remember, when we were in a position similar to that of the first government and the first president on the last weeks of the council, that the issues that were in nonsense were simply canceled. Have a good job with me. I don't like the look on this subject. I can't help seeing that the government has been formed around protecting old crafts. I can't see I'm being assigned a new job in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u153	Mr. President. It has been discussed a number of ways in which subjects will arrive. I've got two Senate documents in front of me. That's not a question. 632, change in hunting costs, the second is Congress No. 628, correction of criminal treatment laws. The second case I mentioned is brought, on my part, out of the question. A top-of-the-art Board of Education and is about the necessary changes and correction of the criminal treatment laws. According to the Supreme Opportunities. This matter should immediately be preceded by the Council meeting and be replaced by a hunting bill. I must ask myself, " What tradition and custom are these matters in the order of the highest standard? ' Mr President has decided to stay at the council?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u154	V.E.G. President. I've come to the highest. Prime Minister is a special amateur for greater political trust and for greater political trust. It has also flown before the fact that her government has a special interest in increasing the way and respect of the Generals. We are now experiencing how the government intends to proceed in that regard, i.e. to increase political trust and political trust and how the government intends to increase the way of the Generals. The methods are very similar to those used here outside our window in our next house, where there is a lot of subversive activity. I think the government in itself could learn a great deal from peering out of the window and seeing how men compare themselves to subversive. But we're not supposed to do submerged in here. We need to engage in upbuilding activities here. I encourage it to the highest. A president once more to resolve the issues still mentioned in the committees in spite of an agreement. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u155	A respectable president. The government will now have discovered that various construction companies have a problem because of the pressures of hunting costs. But you must wonder: " How is it that the proposal to get through here does not mean to pass the most difficult part of the companies, the little ones, and the medium-sized companies? How is it that the logical support that has been presented here for the importance of allowing the case to go through is in no way consistent with the proposal itself, which has no particular intention of extending the worst part of the small project of fishing fees? Can a dignified president explain to me how it can work out together?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u156	A respectable president. It is important to keep it in good repair. paritaprevir Davíð Gunnlaugsson's victory came in earlier that the logic support in the matter that is going into progress here does not focus on the problems that we local Parliaments have constantly heard about, or in my case, since I entered the council, that small and medium-sized structures, especially in the country, are in serious trouble. I think it's possible to say that things are usually the worst in Snæfells and the West. As noted by whiskers. paritaprevir Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunollson is not in support of these changes. These are the very things you would have wanted to talk to me about at the early stage of the case, in time, if the highest. In some way, a government could have agreed on a approach to the matter. [[The president calls.]] Instead, we are offered this solution.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u157	A respectable president. These words: cooperation, cooperation, procreation of the Generals. Now it has been obvious that the words of the government were empty. When the blood dogs have been taken down and torn down, and all the cases of government opposition that were so well received earlier in the winter, it is no wonder when people are so naked in front of the whole nation that they avoid being in a chamber. Before I counted it, there were four generals in the hall, including the highest. President, but I think they're even fewer now. [[The president calls.]] It is no wonder that when people face a nation naked, they avoid listening to this discussion and are obliged to praise it and now betray it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u158	Mr. President. Then we're only in this same spring elephanting, and we're usually in the council, except that in this case it's not only the heads of the bill that comes late and is to be forced through, but also puts in more committees, a more controlled body of committees, a case such as the reduction of hunting costs, such as a bridal bill, which, in fact, has good aspects of itself, such as cutting down the advice of men, but at the same time, at the same time, in support of the promotions of the hired workers, and did all wrong things here on the Day of 2016. This is what the government of Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, has foretold. Now, she's got the head of the Economic and Business Committee to put up a bill just before the end of the Senate. Some of these matters may be retracted, probably not the hunting fees, perhaps the advice of a coward, and submitted by the highest level. The prime minister of Katrín the daughter of Jakobsdóttir herself in the fall. But it's the same old game. Everybody knows exactly what he looks like. He just looks like we're here to talk. Time is being spent. That is what the President of Generalis knows when he sets these matters up. [[The president calls.]] They know the board of directors. They present cases of great opposition late, agreed matters. [[The president calls.]] They also know this when they betray a case from committees. But that is the very responsibility of this governing body. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u159	V.E.G. President. I'm coming up here to review what the councils before me have been talking about, on the fishing bill, okay? paritaprevir Sigmundur, Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson, and Bergþór the son of Ólason. I have a petition for a written reply to the Minister for the New Year's Eve. Got an answer late and at last about this matter that there was nothing going on. Then it comes into the pro board yesterday morning. I had just figured it out when it was taken out of the committee. The problem of small and medium-sized structures is high. I would have liked to see the focus on that show. I have not been given much information on the larger designs, so this case would have required much more time for discussion. I'm just putting out a really big deal and how it's being handled.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u160	Mr. President. I would say that we were in some kind of waste of time. I don't really want to say that we're in a waste of time here. I think we're all here as one to present some very important viewpoints that will benefit the discussion. I find something special to experience, if it is true, that the contracts that were made before a intermission for the county election should not be held. So I'd like to reiterate in my second place to make sure it doesn't work.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u161	Mr. President. I just missed the beginning of a meeting earlier after the grandest meeting. The president ended with members of the council. I'd like to know if a World of Congress was informed of that conclusion, that must have led some conclusion out of that meeting, and a president must have used some solution to the chaos that even occurred. he's here because of his government. But I understand the highest. President well. He is trying to fulfill his role as chairman of the council to keep the program going, but his position is also a problem with his being part of the management team. That's why I'd like to know if it's the highest. The president will not put forth the effort to change the program, agree with both government and government opposition that we now review the program, and take the time to review extensive issues, such as personal protection for the rest of the council, and we too will take a great deal of financial discussions. These two issues need time on the program for the council. Of course, we are willing to make room for these important matters. I think it's important to the highest. The president shows the cards in an effort to make peace and peace at the council. As I've talked about them, the last days of each assembly are a test test for how the president is a member of the council. Not as a taskmaster for the government, but as a governor, a member of the legislature, a member of the Parliament, whether in a government or in a government position. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u162	Mr. President. There's an old 1983 article in the Helgi Post where Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, now the highest. Mr President, has just arrived to the council and spoke of it, by permission of the president: ▪ I feel that senators are quick to grow old and tired. They don't age well. And again, with president's permission: No one should stay long at a assembly at a time. You should take a break... The worst thing that could happen is that Congress turned me into something I don't want to be. That's a nice comment. The president who sits here naturally under the cover of the greater part and works exactly as the president who sits in the shelter of the greater part has always worked, works for the greater part, and does not allow the less part to be handled to the extent that he himself has spoken when he was in the smaller part. It's all in the same hay corner. As I said in my earlier remark, this means that it's just called here to waste time, but it's the responsibility of a president who has the program. [[The president calls.]] The responsibility is in the administration classes and presidents under their cover.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u163	Mr. President. It's important to get to the top. The president now begs the committee directors to proceed with matters that were agreed on before a intermission to put aside all categories, and I want to be especially focused on the government situation. There are undisputed cases, cases that have been well worked out, and those were agreements. Let's say it. There was an agreement that they should come in immediately after a intermission. It hasn't happened yet, because it's as if the government still has to move, but it's going to take this conversation with us who are in the government's position. It's like she's complaining about it. I'd like to encourage the highest. A president to try to change the way of the council, try to increase the way and glory of the council, show the approval of trying to negotiate the program we are prepared to settle. I have declared that we have a lot of discussions about personal protection and financial plans. [[The president calls.]] But before I did, if left greens are exerting themselves to extend the council just to reduce hunting costs, I was shocked. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u164	Mr. President. I don't understand why cases of organ resection, so-called consent, come in here first at the same time and other important matters, which are above in the eyes of the government. It is noted in the Health Minister's report of the 144th legislature that in order to increase the number of donors from the deceased, additional measures are needed than the approved consent alone. The report says that funding for the office of surgeons, funding for the development of increased tasks in the National Institutes and the Akureyri Hospital and ensures that funding for organ donors is needed and that organ transplant education is included in the study of prospective healthcare professionals, that health professionals receive scheduled and routine organ transplant training, require follow-up and monitoring of individual factors, etc. Mr. President. I have no idea that this increase in the cost of the case was discussed in a financial committee or in connection with a financial program. [[The president calls.]] This case has no prerogatives.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u165	No matter the 4th mg. 10th par. A conference for the duration of a meeting is suggested by the president that a meeting meeting can last longer than it is recommended today. Do they want a vote on this President's proposal? - [[Foreground on: Yes.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u166	Mr. President. Now we're about to vote for a long conference. It is only natural for this request to arise in the final meters of the Senate, which is now being done to get permission of the majority of the section to discuss a case that is in nonsense, to discuss a discount to be made in the final meters. For the council there are many national contracts, many of which would be worth the evening. However, this is not to be talked about. It is to discuss differences in the number of fish fees made by members of the Parliament, of the greater part of the employment committee. [[The president calls.]] It's totally unacceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u167	A respected president seems to have made a mistake, and this vote is just too early because it's going to finish things before we can determine if there is any basis for an extended assembly meeting. The important thing is that the program will be adjusted. This will show that the promises of a government stand temporary. The program will be scheduled for the most urgent discussion and completion. There's no use for the highest. The President is now planning to retain this vote to extend a meeting that we do not know to be about, except that the government's betrayal and the government's agreement on a recession was made. That's why I'm the highest. The president to wait for this vote and to finish first to arrange a meeting with members of the council and to restore the council program.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u168	Mr. President. I'm just saying what's going on here. It's kind of upside down here. The unregistered rules, old ones, perhaps out of date, who knows, we wait for answers to the new one, state that there is an agreement on certain things. Or maybe I'm a little bit out of the back, so it's determined that there's an agreement that's made on certain things. Then we sit down and review the need for a longer period of meeting, as is at the end of the day, because there are many things that we need to consider. But this unexpected sideshot from the dark upsets it all. It's totally off from time to time that you can stand here and agree to a longer period, whether it is a longer meeting or more days in a council when the pot is finished. There's no deal. That's the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u169	Mr. President. Last Monday we sat here and did nothing exactly at this council. We finished one part of the program and one question, and that's all. We are now being asked to extend a council meeting to bring the 3 billion as a gift. It's not a gift I'd really like to participate in. I'm not very interested in allowing the extension of Congress meetings to interfere with our past disagreements about what we've agreed on, how to work things here at the council. A longer conference to discuss whether we're going to turn down curses on a job course that's just pretty good compared to a lot of other people in society, I just think it's kind of lame. I'm asking what's behind it. What gets the government to throw away all the agreements, throw out all the peace and assembly endings from the window for a quarter off fishing fees at the end of Congress? [[The president calls.]] What is behind it?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u170	Mr. President. We're in a lot of trouble here. If Mr. President were now wiser, he would see that it would be a favor for all jobs to come to terms with my share. We would eventually reap a rich harvest at the end of the council. You see, his words against the words of some of the council groups are here. I encourage him to try to negotiate this matter. And because it's the highest. A seaman minister who was afraid to present the case himself as a disagreement, I expect that if it is granted for a longer session today, they will see their own worth in the votes of it, including the highest. High priests, sit here and join the rest of us in the discussion until the night. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u171	Mr. President. The credibility of the greater part of the council has become a factor. Now the credibility of the chairman of the council is also reduced significantly, trying to approach this agenda in this way, and moving us to accept it now in the evening in order to discuss matters that are only presented in a conflict. I don't remember being here until night, so that's not the problem. But I'd like to do it for a good reason. I would have been willing to work late at night that way. Monday when nothing was on the agenda. It's not the problem to win. The problem is, you have to work hard, something that makes sense. It does not make sense to present such a bill in order to destroy all the discussions at the last hour when there is plenty of other much more reasonable things that we might be doing. I can't believe that the President of the Generalis is really going to try to get us to take this approach instead of taking over the matter and having a conversation with members of the council on how we can proceed in cooperation and rebuild the trust that has been lost today.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u172	Mr. President. It would have been exemplary if an organization at the council had been in such a way that when we got back to work on Monday, they could have worked like a full day's work. But no, then everyone was sent home quickly. But today, work late into the night. I wondered if this is a responsible board of directors for the council program. Hv. paritaprevir The Logi Már Einarsson recommended the highest power. A seafaring minister would be here during the discussion until the night. V.E.G. To the establishment of this government, a minister himself said that he would appreciate his privilege in particular if a case arose in his office that touched the Samaritan. You see, for five years he was in charge of the company, and he has twice received financial strength from the Samherja. You wonder if he will be sitting in the councilroom at the highest level. Minister, if ever. A senator, or whether someone will take over to be the highest. As we discuss this particular matter, a seaman minister today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u173	A respectable president. I want, like others, to be happy to be the highest. A seafaring minister has entered the hall to be present for the discussion if it begins. Why doesn't the Minister himself deliver the matter that is being disputed here? I wonder. Is this because of what the last speaker talked about, or is it because it is obvious that the greater part did not agree on the matter within the government? Why does the minister choose to refer it to the committee? Is this another example of the discouragement of the Independence Party that we have seen so much of the past few days and weeks in the council? Is this yet another example of confidence that the independent party is not looking at people's faces and setting things on their own? It's becoming a bit common with this old party. I can't approve any longer conferences. What on earth should we do that for? For example, why should we work with the president to extend the council when the president has shown no will today to listen to the government stand, listen to our complaints about letting go of the cases we've been waiting for from committees? No, the president has not given up on one thing about how he intends to use himself in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u174	Mr. President. The government's stand was made a promise for a intermission because of local elections. Before that time, it will not be believed that we will not be able to endure those promises. I wish that the highest. The president will destroy any uncertainty in that subject. I'm waiting for the highest. President to be as clear in this matter as he is known by. That's what they're supposed to do. President that he is the president of all members of Congress regardless of order. Now it's a test.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u175	Mr. President. I'm going here again and again to remind you of the agreement. Or should I say an alleged agreement instead? We're going to need a clear task management. Well, as the situation is, she's not in sight. These are at best strange times, or worse, as people want to digest that sentence. I'm gonna let myself agree with others here, saying that there's no reason to stay here for a long evening meeting if we're not going to make a deal.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u176	Mr. President. This case shows both bad practices and bad politics. The work is bad, because it is the last three days of the council that we are throwing in a political bomb. Politicalism is also bad, for now priorities are set for the big industry, which has gained about 350 billion in seven years. It's just the money in the private-prose for making men is bigger than all the fishing fees combined. It's okay to be successful in the development, but how can giving the big one three billion be the priority of the left green? For example, the amount of money could be increased by 30%, or the government's contributions could be raised by 50%. Why should taxes or large - scale plants be given prompt treatment rather than disability, not elderly ones and not family members?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u177	A respectable president. Here before Easter, there was another matter in baloney conflict, but not so baloney that there was only one who voted against the change in the law that was then being done, so the nonsenseing conflict was then. But you didn't get through 3rd. of that matter before the break of Easter, a meeting was not extended. Now there's a lot of baloney conflict, and it's only supposed to be hard for a meeting meeting. Is it because the right more is involved, not in the other issue, but in this matter? I'm just asking.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u178	Mr. President. All of this is becoming rather sad and burdensome for the person here on earth. There's no agreement on the program. It has been suggested that the way the program has been set up is in evidence. It is not apparent that there are any sources, on the part of the highest. To try to handle this matter, President, and settle it in a decent way. That's why you think it's very bold of the highest. A president if he's going to drive through a night meeting at the will of the government. It would be different, though, if the conclusion was made that evening meetings would be preferential. I don't believe that in the highest. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u179	A respectable president. I say the respect of the council is gone. Or so I think. I don't understand this kind of work. I don't think the public out there can in any way understand why, in the last minute, they have to be saved, the most successful people in this country, the one who owns the quota. We're talking about growing their money. To them these are undoubtedly pennies, 3 billion. To us, big money. I say for my part, don't let it in. It's ridiculous to have the public in the country listen to this and be accepted. If we want to show respect for ourselves here at council, we will say no and stop this, take it together, settle matters, and respect each other. There seems to be no place for the government's platform.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u180	President. Yeah, it's the old work plan. Instead of seeing our own respect in making a deal with the smaller parts, the program should be extended and stay long into the evening in an effort to tire us out in the smaller section so that the more part will be forced into a case that is in nonsense. I can't quite figure it out. Is this just supposed to stay like this? That we need to be discussing a meeting government and a vote and a big argument? Just down the street so that the more part can force its way through? What happened to the cooperation? Aside from the fact that this is not going to work, we're going to keep this up in the smaller parts. We're not getting tired of anything.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u181	Mr. President. If you look at it, maybe it's no wonder that it's happening now. Everyone knew what the situation was. The righteousness presented today is based on what everyone knows. Justice seems to be wrong to us, but it was there. Why does this appear just after the election? Because it's very unpopular. In fact, when the 2013 government made the first effort to lower the price of hunting, it was called after a filancy, talking about accepting the authority to direct the case to the president. It's a big deal, it's important, it's a huge amount of money, and it's an immensely unpopular by a large percentage of the population. It's no wonder it's coming right after the state election. What is of interest, however, is that a sea emissary does not contribute this, the High Priest of the Independence Party. The head of the pro board, what? paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, is presented in the larger part of it and has to speak this case, even though potential conflicting interests are being carried out by the U.S. Congress Act: [[The president calls.]] ▪ The members of the House shall avoid conflicts between public interests and their financial interests or other interests that are professional, personal or family, whether they are real or possible. If a senator fails to resolve these matters, prevent such conflict of interest, he shall inform them. Well, this is the situation. Now after the election, it's about to be left to Magnúsdóttir Hyn Rafney, my daughter, to present this unpopular case. That's the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u182	Mr. President. Until spring and spring, the opposition to the government sustained this council work. Then in the President's conference board, we spoke that we would not accept that case as long as all the cases of the government were given prompt treatment. This is, of course, the way we provided for them. The program has been held ill. Now, we're supposed to extend a meeting for a case delivered and submitted last night, not to complete a discussion on a case that was proposed many months ago on the decline in election age. Important thing about the democratic rights of the people of the country. No, let's put the interests of the project ahead of the last phase and focus on the rights of young people. Somehow, I don't think these young people would have chosen those people who have this priorities in their recent district elections.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u183	Mr. President. They're asking for a night meeting to discuss the reduction in hunting costs. They're asking for a night meeting, so we can talk about a senator's case that's supposed to represent a Senate case, which is certainly in the middle of 3. Um.....before the Senate case in the middle of the 1st. and before all other members of Congress with a lower language number. It's not working. There's just no deal. However, I asked for the word because I saw that it was the highest. A seafaring minister had entered the hall, but he has now reassigned. So today we have wondered why this process, as a matter of Congress, goes into the council. Why is that not the highest? The High Priest himself who makes the case? Why did he not trust himself to take it through the government and the council? [[The president calls.]] If he was here in the gym, I'd ask him to come and explain it to us. [[The president calls.]] Perhaps it could pay for things, if there's an explanation that we can understand for this situation that has been created here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u184	President. This is not the best form of the Council when things are currently arranged. I'm bored myself like this and boring, just like we're here. [[The point is, why don't you just stop?]] No, you see, I think I'll just keep going. [[Up front.]] It is quite remarkable, in fact, to see how short a new government was holding on to its elaborate discourse on improving work. It is quite amazing that a government that looks forward to something so willing and fatherly, as is going on here, going in the same political affairs as ill - prepared, as ill - mannered, as illogical as it is here. I'm not surprised to hear that. Secretary of the sea doesn't want to present this case, what a sputum it is. But to invite the council to throw this through with no time to be careful, that is absolutely unacceptable work. It must also be thought of, having spent two weeks in the intermission to organize the Senate work until the end of the council, how the council has been. [[The president calls.]] Day one after Reunion: Nothing at all. Another day: Well, we can say in a half way. And on the third day, we have come to ask for a meeting of the night, because everything is at hand. [[The president calls.]] It's not an organization in the Senate. [[The president calls.]] There is no agreement on how it will be pronounced. It's a ma'am, Mr. President. It's a masquerade. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u185	In any case, the president asks members of the council to watch the time limit, no matter what other matters may be involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u186	A respectable president. This is government bill in disguise. I don't know. It's a government bill. It's an unconvincing disguise. It's kind of a red cap bill. We know exactly who the wolf is in this story. This is a administrative bill in disguise about special appeals for some of the finest and richest stakes in the country. These people use the common resources of the country and are therefore so rich. I don't see a reason to pay special attention to this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u187	Mr. President. I myself have nothing to do with working late into the night, till blue night, if I thought it was for the people. I don't think that by extending a meeting now and respecting the approval of the council president, it is being done for the people and for their good. I just think it's a bad thing. I find it very special to break an agreement before lunch that was meant to be held, a very important agreement, and then, after lunch, to ask the relevant parties and to let everything upset, to do a favor. I don't quite get that kind of work.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u188	Mr. President. I'm not going to discuss this macropolitan priorities in the government of the Left Motion ▪ A green offer to squeeze into the council in the last recordd, huge, reduced spells on the output. I'm not going to talk about it, we'll do it later. At the end of each assembly, I have considered that both government and government opposition to pay for the request for prolongation. But when an agreement that was made now for a intermission is ignored, ignoring, a new arrangement is run through, a new program, in my opinion, directly by violence, when the opposition is taken to the highest level. The president and the government are doing it, called freckles. It's called bullying, but first and last, it's called fraud, deceit. This is what the government stands for. These are the so - called new tactics. [[The president calls.]] Unless, of course, the government starts to show more about the cards and to state what it really means with some empty talk about increasing the respect of the Government Convention, it will be as far as it is seen as the new process, and they are a failure.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u189	President. We hereby vote to allow for the extension of a meeting. It is now very important that we senators finish our work on important issues before the council. For example, there is a financial program, a general personal protection principle, digital carpenters, electronic real estate transactions, and much more. Is it not strange, then, that the president now seems to have a determined desire to keep the fishing bill on the agenda in total conflict with government and government opposition? This action by the president makes it the same as it is. It's totally the responsibility of a president. An agreement has been violated by the president by forcing this matter on the program, thus disrupting any action in Congress. In fact, it is the best thing to add to the Senate's appointment just before months of breakdown, once again, that has just been a conquistador. But then we have to make sure that the extra time is being used to counter important issues that concern the public, not to focus on giving billions of dollars in the pockets of workers. So I'd like to direct it to the President to make a big improvement in these matters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u190	Mr. President. We're paying for a case that's gonna bring a lot of money to a lot of rich companies; decrease in hunting fees. Some have said today it's a political bomb. I'm going to go further and say, "It's a political atom bomb, which may be about all that the left green has not yet left on its case log. That may be appropriate. We must wisely sit down and try to resolve this matter so that our congregational work will bring us honor and only progress.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u191	V.E.G. President. There's not much to be pleased with the senator who stands here more than to participate in evening meetings at the General Assembly. The longer, the better. But when waiting for an extended meeting, one must assume that this is done on the right grounds. A night meeting is now requested because the government, as well as the chairman of the council, has decided to put their words behind them. This group has decided that they would not release any of the Senate primes that have been mentioned and are ready for their assessment. I would have been glad to have participated all night, until night and tomorrow to discuss the price insurance and the share of a house in it, I would have done it with great pleasure. I want to talk about matters that are important to families in this country. But I can't take part in extending a conference just because people come here to some point in the last minute, incorruption of the council's dissatisfaction, and at the same time making a promise.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u192	President. Of course, we're talking politics in part. There's nothing to say in itself if the Polish government's left green, independent party and forwarding is that it is a priority to saluting outputs, large and small, at present and at the expense of the public. Every man for his own taste. But the work, man alive. I wondered if the members of the council here, even ministers, are content with this. Then, most important, I speak to members of Congress who did not go up to so many months in a pit, even in their holiness, to lecture others about what was right and what was good in their lives, what morals would be doing in the other and in these matters, and how they would be under control. Are these members of the government satisfied with this practice? Are they content to recommend new unscrupulous regulations and habits in the work of the Allied Congress of Iceland?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u193	Mr. President. Now it may be that the one we read here is overly small, but I began to study the WHO law. It is mentioned in paragraphs 27 and 28. that when a case has been referred to the committee, she should make a decision on the case and that the committee may request references when the case is referred to. The information has now been requested in this particular case, i.e. the case that's being disputed about, about hunting costs. You wonder: " Can I do this? Is this the way you would like to be seen by a vein, asking for references to a case that has not been referred to?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u194	It is not known if it will be on the program.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u195	It is not even known if they will be on the program. Can you do that? Or is this just an unnecessary care for little things?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u196	Mr. President. I would like to continue with the metaphor when the president of Generalis, Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, was new at Council 1983, but I have been reading from an article published in the Hellen post that year. That's where he says, by permission of a president: ▪ The Senate work is good for me, and of course I hope to have some effect on the development of things. There is no denying that the dominant organization in this institution tends to adapt to itself. Of course, there may be a possibility that new members of Parliament will soon be the saboteur.... Now Piratar and I have not yet been able to put this system together that we do not speak for respecting the fact that we are allowing others to make a decision and not just have the president who has the program authority. Let us speak more together and have more consultation, as shown in the Mosaic Law of this government for the advancement of Generalis. The President has all this in his hands. He only has to have a longer meeting, instead of being here to scribble on whether or not we're going to extend the council meeting, sit down with members of Congress and figure out a solution. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's just a waste of time because the president wants to have the program totally in his hands, not to be consulted on it. [[The president calls.]] This is entirely at the hands of the council president.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u197	The president is now reminded of ancient legends of the northern world. A senator quotes this text.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u198	A respectable president. I want to point out that this is all being won in the wrong order today. I don't think it's surprising that the President has not interrupted a meeting in order to gather members of the House to see if there's any sign of compromise. There was a meeting with members of the council if I left lunch right or until lunchtime. There may have been some exchange of opinions, but the response is as weak as it has been from a respectable president so far in this discussion, first on a meeting board, now on the vote. So I would like to ask again, Is there any way of interrupting meetings and calling councilmen to order and action? Because the work doesn't look good today, in order to be spoken of lightly.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u199	It is the beginning of a vote. Senators are discussing the vote. The president does not get involved in that discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u200	President. This is where we stand and stretch the tail. A man would have thought that with such huge issues as the personal protection law, we would try to create the knots so well enough that the council might be at the end of the council here so that the necessary time would be won to discuss as much as a large matter, which I personally doubt would have had plenty of time for the council to handle properly, how we will then spend the time here at the end of the council. The fine things are actually shamefully late. We still have an unscrupulous financial program, which is natural to spend several hours in order to review the emphasis and failures of the program. What a huge deal this is! Therefore, it is important to settle the council arrangement until next week. Clearly, the greater part has no interest in such reconciliation. The president has no interest in such reconciliation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u201	A respectable president. We will now discuss that the government has decided to provide a bill on the reduction of $3 billion. Of course, this is a bit funny in the big context. Right after the election, this case will blow in here. Men have not had the courage to put it in before elections, that's obvious. This is funny, especially if you look at the direction of the left green. The bank tax has been reduced by 8 billion. The income tax has been reduced by 1% across the line - across the entire line, including the highest income. The one with 5 billion. K. In a month, it saves less than 50,000 bucks. This is the case at a month's time. Conspiracy has been laid down and left in a smoking ruin by its clients, with uncertainty, complete uncertainty. And WG's on the front side of committees that break down good business. I think that VG must have pain if it doesn't make any noise. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u202	Mr. President. Now I know for sure that I will. Mr President is a sensible man. Those who know him more about his political career at the General than I even say he's a cunning, clever politician. Now I'm going to direct it in a friendly and respectful manner. The president said that he would try to identify each of these qualities and try to resolve the matter in a way that pleases him. I know he can if he wants to.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u203	A respectable president. If that's the case. At one time, a president was under the fur of the House and wondered how things could be solved, I think it would be a good idea now to lie under the furs and try to find solutions to the issues discussed here, i.e. how it works in the High Council. I want to think about it, and I'm just going to do it out loud: Is it really possible that this case was kept past the local elections? So, what would have happened to VG if they had dared to bring it before the election? That's what I was wondering. Besides, it's amazing that VG somehow seems to have come to the point of clearing up the discouragement of the Independence Party that did not have the courage to contribute to this matter. Why did the minister of the sea emissary not bring the matter into the council as a bill of directors? Everybody knows they get first here. No, the lack of courage was often lacking in this Assembly Hall. Now one more time you ask yourself, " Where is my courage? ' He's not with the Independence Party. [[For the record, he's here.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u204	Mr. President. I mentioned it earlier, and I say again and again that I'm no reason to file a case about organ removal, about a so-called agreement, get first, and prolong a meeting until tonight to be true. If there is an increase in organ transplants and solves the problem of too small for vital organs, there is a greater need for a greater discussion in this country on the case of donors in the government, the theoretical community, and especially in the general population. There are many opinions involved in this matter. It's a big deal, just like hunting expenses. There has been no discussion of the potential costs of the project, neither increase the work load of health care professionals nor increase the cost of state funds. The matter has not been recorded in connection with the work of financial legal committees. Nowhere. These are unprofessional practices that should not be seen in such an important matter and that should not be seen here at the General Assembly. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u205	V.E.G. President. We are now experiencing an interpretation of the government's increased political trust and increasing the way of the Generals, which was set out as a special focus in the government covenant, which was otherwise rather thin and contented. Now that we are in the first weeks of this cooperation, we are experiencing what this really means. I'll ask the World Congress how do you think this will be for the next four years if this is a foretaste of what will happen? I don't think we're going to start talking in here tonight about a program based on broken promises. I think we should replace the program, and I trust the president to do so so so that we will be at peace and reasonably calm about the issues we have to deal with, which are of great value.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u206	A respectable president. I'm hoping to get to the highest. The president would like to take our position in the government's opposition to this vote, but I would like to pray to the highest degree. To imagine that he was in a position of government and that he was not just any government opponent, but he was a senator who long served as chairman of the left movement, and we remember most of us, and hopefully the highest. President, too. If the situation looked that way and the government would be doing all their business, this case would have been all too late and too hard and would have been gathered after a recess, where the first action of the greater part was about bringing on the program a huge issue, not to speak out, and on the other hand, to betray the agreement made at the opposition of government just before a break began, how would this government stand under those circumstances? How would he respond to this vote? I guess the rumor would just be raised one and even two fists would take off. Therefore, I ask a dignified president to present himself now in our position of government in regard to his plans for this vote. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u207	Mr. President. I agree with the last speaker. I'd like to recall it to the highest. Since I was six years old, the president has been in this council hall. That's about it. Thirty-five years ago, the highest. The president spoke in that exact manner, and we do here. He's been calling for professional work. Now he is in a unique position to practice this professional practice. It's like the ultimate plan. The president is allowing members of the Parliament to blow out here under the other members of the program. I think it's my seventh speech on this matter. That's all right. I think we're at a good buy with senators, for our clients, who are desperate, elderly, poor people, students, if we can prevent 3 billion dollars from being brought here. to the large structure at the same time, and there is a lack of financial resources in many of the welfare systems. I don't understand why we can't just talk like people do in other places. What kind of charade is having this one-way conversation with a man sitting behind me who doesn't say a word? [[The president calls.]] We're calling for a conversation. There's nothing to ignore this part of the room. I know it's the highest. The President agrees with me. He needs to show it in his work instead of sitting around saying nothing behind me.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u208	A respectable president. I feel a bit like a salmon being tired, like it's waiting for me to give up. But I'm not gonna give up completely soon because I'm not salmon, I'm a senator. Although I am young here at the council, I seem to have even learned of the law as a member of Congress. The Law is this, a respectable president. The bigger the subject, the less discussion should take place. I think we all must unite in trying to break that law because we're thinking creatures, we're senators, we're not salmon they're trying to tire out. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u209	Mr. President. I mentioned earlier that it's like a bad joke that with a VG in the government just before the Senate ceremony, just before the Senate goes into a long and awesome summer vacation on the nation's invitation, a reduction in fishing fees is pushed into the back door program. It was like a bad joke, but it's become like a bad movie because of all the time and all the energy that goes into it. I find that very sad. I am sad that the time of the council, the peace, and the agreement that had been made should not be higher than that of the nation's greatest rulers and the president of the council than it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u210	Mr. President. Today, at this meeting, there are eleven cases, two of which are over. Of the remaining eight, there have been no disagreements about treating the council today. Nevertheless, we are here, many hours after a congregation meeting began, not even further because of the stress of presenting a situation that has not been accepted. That case, hunting costs, it's about lowering the fishing costs on all productions, especially on large productions, including HB Granda, which today paid off interest on 1,269,561 yous. K. ... anda 105k, actually. In addition. It shows how important this particular matter is. It is always so when people destroy their reputation, for example, by betraying agreements, that it will not be very easy to recover. It is not particularly important for me personally to help those who have ruined their reputation and to show that they cannot negotiate when they are so weak. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u211	Mr. President. I just want to think out loud because they're starting to do it here. I wondered, " Now we are getting in a huge deal when there's not much more of a council. ' It comes in after the government election, and therefore I think aloud: Could it be that after a weekend we get a transport program on our table after the district election? Like others, I ask, "Where's the balls? What's more, where's the deal?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u212	V.E.G. President. Hv. paritaprevir Guðmundur Andri Thorsson said he felt like a salmon that was getting tired, but then he said he wasn't salmon. I feel like a cod that's about to start bleeding, but I'm not cod. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I've been at sea many times, and I've been at sea. Once on the Internet, we had stayed awake for a long time, and there were some who had become sleepy. Then one old and good one says: "It's not much of a matter to watch one wintertime, it's just losers who can't. I'm quite willing to work hard and stay up a long time, but I can't agree to participate tonight's evening meeting with, I'm just saying no fishing instruments, with a broken promise. I want the highest. A president fulfills the promises made before intermission. Then I'm ready to go.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u213	A respectable president. Yeah, buster, my name, we're getting tired. But why? For what purpose? I start to ask myself, " Is this because it's because it's being drawn away from how they're acting on committees, such as with the older people's case and that they can work and pay their taxes but they don't get any restrictions that are practical for the state, practical for older citizens? ' Why can't this be? Or is it to prevent, not for some reason, that they do not want to allow tax-free drug strengths and others'strengths because they are able to do so by making them fakes that do not bring back anything, but the loss for those who receive it mostly? Something's behind all this. I can't believe the left greens are so fanciful of the whole thing all of a sudden, they haven't been around so far, so something else is behind. I'd like to know what it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u214	In discussions about the President's conference board, the president endeavored to explain that today's meeting is a reality. The president does not take to heart accusations of fraud or fraud in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u215	Mr. President. So I'll explain now, because I'm sure it's not yet clear enough, why Pirats and I are going to vote against extending Congress. This is because we resist such priorities. We resist the immediate treatment of this matter through the council, coming the back way all the way out to the community at the same time as they are paying huge money for fishing companies, and many more needs are waiting. We're here to extend a meeting to give them a gift. I can't accept that. The piranha as a whole can't agree with that, but we'll all have a vote against extending a meeting when other and much more needed cases await, including a fall in election age, so I'm still reminding you of the need.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u216	A respectable president. I have allowed myself to live in the hope today that the president would declare that he was willing to accept the agreement that would be held before a intermission, but instead, the president has in effect thrown at us that it is not a great deal to him, if I have understood the President's right, or at least he has not betrayed anything. I don't really know who they are, then, to be responsible for making deals. All of this, of course, is done under the direction of a president who is in charge of the council and who has totalitarian authority, at least in this body of Congress. So I am disappointed that we are still in the same place when it comes to the vote, that there is no information to be made on previous contracts. It's not a good picnic into the contracts that have to be done in the days ahead, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u217	Mr. President. It's no fun, and it's not easy to be in a position of government and to vote for a longer meeting period when it is known that many urgent and needed cases are in the pipes. But I'm standing here, and I'm going to use the time I have to account for the reason that I'm on the red button, as well as the Council's Council. I show responsibility for that position entirely at the board of directors, including the highest. The General President, for having done his work, communication inaccessible, inconsistencies and ran into this position today. I remind you that except for the case we have here, and we haven't even taken sides, because I haven't seen one member of the board yet, it's better to know that this strategy is in place, there are many other issues to wait. [[The president calls.]] The responsibility for this is entirely a government officer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u218	Mr. President. Despite the wind. In many ways, members of the Parliament often speak of the great General Assembly as an amazingly strange place to work. I predict that the unexpected will happen, that those who vote by working tonight will not be here, but those who vote against tonight's work will be here. V.E.G. The president does not take to heart accusations of fraud. No one's actually talked about fraud around here. But the highest. At least the president has not spoken clearly enough because everyone here has expressed himself today has understood his words differently from his own. I can't accept that we are paying for this crisis of the government, where it's supposed to deliver nearly 3 billion of the hands of those with a full pocket of money, some of them at least.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u219	V.E.G. President. I have previously described how I would have liked to be here and discuss matters that are of great importance to most of the nation and are designed to improve the interests of those who are humble in society. But I do not participate in accepting a longer conference meeting that is designed to establish a program that is not in harmony with what has been agreed on. That's why I vote against an assembly meeting being extended tonight. Actually, I hope to be honest with you. The president will take note of the modest protests and oppositions of our council and join us. In spite of everything, he is now, hopefully, the Speaker of Us all. I really hope that he will feel the motivation to attend a serious meeting. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u220	A respectable president. We're here to vote if we should stay up and see if we're going to make ourselves a very special noise and stay here until night to give gifts to the local builders of 3 billion. I don't see the need to do that. Especially striking today, when the people of the United States receive their stress notes, the General sees the reason to bring such gifts. I'll lie against it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u221	A respectable president. I always like to recall on such grounds the relative vote and the relative number of members of the council. The largest part is 35 members of Congress but has a relative cutoff of 33. I just want to remind you what that means in the big context. But in particular, it is very strange that we will first vote for the extension of a meeting before deciding whether to have the subject at all. I see no reason for the matter to be on the agenda. As a result, I see no reason for having the conference longer. I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u222	Mr. President. I would be very happy on the green button if we were going to discuss something other than giving the output 3 billion at this time when the infrastructure cannot be financed, the basic necessities for those who are leaning against their feet than we are here. It is an amazing coincidence now that while we tackled it, the government tax manager published a list of those who paid the highest taxes last year. As far as I can see, at the top of ten, there are many people now who are doing well. The government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter decides to do especially well with those there on the list of the highest incomes. All other senators need now is what. Councilmen of the left movement ▪ Green Pronunciation, making up their own minds if this is the group of people who are to receive a special priority in this government. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u223	Mr. President. Since the bill for organ removal is proposed by a senator but not by a government, it has not been employed by professionals in the administrations, which would be normal, if thought of the size and delicate nature of the case. So before taking such a big step as recommended in the bill, it would be desirable to do the work within the administration and to prepare the health system better for the changes in the law of organ law. It must consult with the major health institutions in Iceland and take actions that will increase the training of health care professionals in dealing with caregivers. Further careful assessment of the case within the administration should be performed regarding the costs of changing legislation to the seminary. I'd like to stress that the first step in increasing organization from dead individuals is to increase the subject of organ transplants in society, helping people to register whether they want to donate organs or not. [[The president calls.]] This case has no top priority, and there is no need to extend a meeting. The Senator says no.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u224	Mr. President. Today's birthday. It's the government's birthday. She's been sitting for about six months today. It took the government of Katrín's daughter Jakobsdóttir six months to take what she now calls for support. It also took the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter six months to confirm the same old practice. Same old majority of people, same old abuse. In fact, it would have been more honest to say that instead of saying that the work method should be changed and that it should not be changed. It is also of great interest. During the discussion each day, prime minister has not been exposed to one of the most controversial opinions in Icelandic politics. And she calls for special treatment. To me, this is a matter of working hard and evil politics. Bad work, bad politics. It's about special treatment for the big estate, about money, about lobsterism and special interest. That's why I'm so disappointed. [[The president calls.]] I pray to my friends in the left green: prevent this. The work for the sake of public interest. That was what you had to do, not to do today or to the next few days.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u225	Mr. President. There's a lot of talk about how ugly the idea is to extend a convocation meeting so that this very ridiculous matter might get to be discussed tonight. If it hadn't been done, I'd have been on the green button, if we'd been sticking to a normal council order, I'd have been on the green button. But I can't support extending a meeting meeting just to open up the possibility of making huge money to people who have enough, when many in this community are significantly worse and should get first in our schedule today. That is not all there is to say. Of course, I say no to such ridiculous requests. Part for the highest. Well, I hope the president didn't take it to heart that when he's been sleeping, he's going to sleep.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u226	Mr. President. I want to account for my vote. This is a request for a prolonged assembly meeting to discuss a case that was brought up here in a nonsense dispute. Of course, as the end of the council approaches, members of the Parliament can expect their evening meetings. Most of the time, it's in agreement and you don't have to vote for it. It's another time for the highest. A government that talked about change and better practices. Of course, it has often happened, as mentioned today, that a bomb has been dropped just before the council ended, but this was not supposed to happen at the highest level. The government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, has the responsibility to promote the council and increase confidence in politics. The work we've seen today at the board is not designed to increase the respect of the council or trust in the Council. [[The president calls.]] I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u227	A respectable president. At the same time, at the end of the 3 billion pieces of silver, sick people are terrified. It's not supposed to be for food. It doesn't work for drugs. It is not intended for medical treatment. It's losing a home because of a huge amount of rent. Then there are a thousand waiting for social facilities, people with children living in illegal homes. No, are we doing something for these people? No, we're supposed to start working tonight for those who have the best interests of it. I'm just saying for my part that this is economic violence to those who have been remembered in this country. Deploying those who have it best is being done. That's why I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u228	A respectable president. While an agreement is not held that has been made with the government opposition on the issue of which committees will be held, I do not see reason to support the continuation of the meeting period today.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u229	President. It is embarrassing to see that when a government that has been highly proud of changed and improved practice and an increased respect for a council is carried out in this way. It's not surprising, therefore, that I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u230	Mr. President. Hv. Councilmen, especially wranglers. Senators of the Cabinet. I find it hard to believe that all the executives are the issue that is about so much the heart and priorities that they want to drive it forward in this way, thus expressing support for the president of the council, who has shown no color to help with this matter. I don't want to believe it. And I don't want to believe it until the vote is over with all the executives behind that kind of thing. I don't support the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u231	Mr. President. We're still in the same place as before. I'm sorry, there's no consultation, no deal. There's no job management here at all. Mr President, there's a lot of responsibility. However, I reiterate and point out that the President has the program. I don't agree with any further conference tonight, which is because the case is entered on our table for vague reasons, I'd like to say, while other more important matters are being held hostage.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u232	Mr. President. V.E.G. The president has not met my challenge to confirm that the agreement before intermission is in effect and that the promises of those days will be fulfilled. I allow myself to reiterate my wishes to the highest level. A president of this subject, that he published a confirmation like that. I don't think I'm gonna work here on nationalized affairs at any time of day. But I see no reason to pay for the government in establishing the priorities it presents in the case of those whose foot is in Icelandic society, which is held hostage by committees in order to bring large donations to their best interests. I can't help it, I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u233	A respectable president. Today, opposition has been very helpful and helpful to this government, to the point that at times even I have had plenty to do. There are, however, certain limits, and the song cannot be walked indefinitely. Today, the administration of the administrative committee, and now only after intermission, there have been some of the most remarkable things. In fact, it is presumptuous to ask for an extension of a meeting when the meeting is merely to confirm the betrayal, the pure and complete betrayal of the administrative body here at the council against the smaller section, the betrayal of an agreement made in a certain way, which was completely clear, and has now been betrayed and confirmed by this vote, by choosing to maintain an even longer meeting than the agreed agreement had been. So I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u234	Mr. President. They ask for permission from the council to set up a matter for members of Congress. The president asks us members of the Parliament to set up a matter for members of Congress and set it up before all other members of Congress. The purpose is to reduce hunting costs and issue discounts. I would have thought it would have been better if the president had said so to the highest degree. Government: This I do not do because there will be agreements and divisions in a Senate hall, and it will not work. I will not do this to those members of Congress who rely on me as president of the entire council. I was so disappointed that the president agreed to put this councilman case on a program in such a great deal of conflict. The rest would have been better handled. [[The president calls.]] I was very disappointed with a president that he had not stood with members of the council in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u235	A respectable president. Now we're here to vote on whether or not to side for this controversial matter. I say for my part that I have not shaped my view of the matter as such. But taking the matter into consideration in this way makes me pay against being treated at the council in this way, i.e. that it is stated for other members of Congress and even for a case once written, as I have repeatedly noted. I don't know which part of the government is planning to try to negotiate again with them the issues that have been committed on their part. It may be the thought, but it will not work. The government situation does not negotiate with each other twice. It is very important that the president uses the power he has to intervene in this series of events.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u236	Mr. President. Here we are going to vote for a matter that is here in crying conflict to be arranged. When will the program be scheduled? Well, sometime in the night, when the more part is going home to sleep, and in the smaller part we will maintain the work of the Generals as usual. Why take this matter into consideration? Yes, because a good friend of the government has to be delivered to Katrín's Jakobsdóttir, 3 billion. If they're concerned about the little companies, the little ones, they'll get a discount. And that discount can be raised if these sides are fighting on the banks. Instead, the government under the cover of the head of the pro board decides to bring 3 billion of our money to special agencies. [[The president calls.]] Public money. I'm not going to pay for this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u237	Mr. President. I agree with what. paritaprevir Ágúst Ágústsson Áugustsson This case is evil politics, but it has also been a disaster. It may now be that some repairs may need help, but not all, certainly not all. This bill, distributing 3 billion to all these enterprises, is similar to shooting a gnat with a cannon. That's never a good idea. I now declare that the highest. A sea chief who sits here would come to the chair and explain why he lacks the courage to present the matter himself because it was a priority. What does he have in mind when setting priorities for people who have nothing to do with money while the poor, the elderly, the child's family, and others are left in pain? [[The president calls.]] V.E.G. Secretary of the sea, please come and stand before your case. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u238	V.E.G. President. Hv. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir has now taken on the role of the girl in the Golden Gate and is throwing into the Senate with a speech of the highest order. A seafaring minister does not have the courage to present himself. Now it's a bad thing for the Polish Norwegians to force senators to do such a dirty job for them. I'm not going to pay this way in this way for the golden side here. I'm the highest. To take this matter for yourself instead of using senators for themselves, a minister of the sea is a minister of the sea.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u239	Mr. President. There should be an exception to allowing matters to take place when delay is past, so there is a delay in the council. There is no delay in being there as some kind of window-cane that the government ignores after their usefulness. Let us look at the background. The 2018 budget stated that the cost of fishing was due to be 10 billion in national preparation, but the budget was adopted at the end of December 2017. At the beginning of April, the government's budget was published, too late, as it is now. It revealed that the fishing rate of 2018 would be 7 billion. This follows the explanation that fishing laws would fail at the end of the year. Of course, it doesn't hold any opinion, since the 2018 hunting fees are before 2018/19 years ago. Could it be that the government ran away, promised a decline in hunting fees, without realizing that there would be no law against that? And when the mess was discovered, another screw-up, has it been decided to try to force the council through a dirty mix to sort things out? Is that what's going on here?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u240	Mr. President. I had a few words ready about how awful it would be to take this case to treat, but since this is done in the hot tub, I have to say this case is not working well. It is based on statements from a report from Deloitte, so badly worked that it does not go anywhere. It is also based on false claims from the government. In addition, there is not enough time since yesterday's crisis was resolved. At the same time, other Senate documents were completed, but they were not submitted. It's not yet long enough for this to work. We are not to allow matters ahead of us, especially members of Congress, just like that because it is convenient for someone. It's not working. We have to win a lot better, so, of course, this exception is not to be allowed now. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u241	A respectable president. It is very strange that this case should not appear before April 1, since certain species have long been in trouble because of the way the fishing costs work. Why is this case all of a sudden? And so strange as it is, why is that the way it is? The problems of the little ones are not specifically addressed. This bill does not address the problems that have been ahead of us for a long time. This bill, in addition to its work at the Sea Department, is presented as a matter of Congress. Why is that, Mr. Honorable President? It's all very mysterious.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u242	A respectable president. It was called from a side hall earlier that it had not been determined how to divide the amount. Is it not necessary to establish a reliable policy based on an equal order or other legal views? Nothing like that is in this bill so I can see, so if the council approves this bill, it's signing an empty check. I have heard members of Congress complain that government law is taking over the funds from the council. This would make it a matter of the council to give up the financial resources themselves. There may be a difference in our definition of accuracy regarding this reference, which is being referred to in terms of the bill, and I'm not right, but I don't think that support is based on an equal principle or other legitimate views.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u243	Mr. President. Why is this case here? Why is this a Senate case? We haven't yet heard the answers. Why is this matter of Congress when it is prepared at the Sea Department, and here, a sea chief minister who listens to us ask and argues about the same question, the same thread that is all around us in this matter? Can no one answer us? Or is this one of those unwritten rules that are gradually filtering in here and that are completely empty?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u244	A respectable president. Our case on the welfare committee, the case of the Fox People, went into some committee that no one knows or knows about, or knows about, or knows, one of the secret committees. Then we have our second case in a committee that forgets to call in a client, and it's just forgotten somehow. I ask, "Why couldn't this case just get forgotten somewhere, or go to this secret committee that nobody knows about and disappears there? " [[For example, forget it.]] No, it's probably because this is about those who have the best in society, they all have the money. You can't push them. They must not be forgotten. They must not be turned away to a committee that no one knows who or who should be on. No, it's supposed to be forced through. I'm just saying, it's a shame for the Council to let this go on.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u245	A respectable president. We are here dealing with a vote on this case, which is a coded administrative bill, or is Jón in the pelvis, or is at least not exactly what it is about to be. This is not the business of this situation. If the government is interested in bringing gifts to builders it must be for itself and it needs to be done at the highest level. Ministers themselves to be men to address the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u246	President. It'll make things easier now. On Thursday, June 7th, it was to be the day of the General Assembly. There are only three meetings until the Council leaves on vacation. It may now be clear that there will be a delay in the offing of a council. Even so, it is absolutely unacceptable to be spending billions of dollars of dollars on fishing expenses that are of no benefit to the council. Is it justified to sacrifice anything that might be considered a form of agreement in order to secure those builders'financial support? I wonder what the priorities of the president are. The President is determined in his will to destroy his cooperation with the smaller parts, and for this he intends to ensure many billions of indiscriminate activity to Icelandic marketing companies. This is ridiculous, completely ridiculous. Can we please try as a council to focus on what is important? There are plenty of such cases.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u247	Mr. President. I have to allow myself to express my frustration by being here in this situation. Of course, it shouldn't be that way. I would also like to express my concern that the cooperation of the council, between government and government, is now in place. It was abandoned in a very different way. In fact, great promises were made on the side of the government groups that joined together, not just on government cooperation, but on the procreation of the Generals. They see how it's done. These are issues that are addressed to the order of agreements at the same time as matters in behalf of the elderly and the desperate who have come far on committees are thrown to the superboards.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u248	Mr. President. It has been a matter of time before that, in the fall of the currency, there would be a postmortem, in fact, three years ago. So it's a little special that we need to be here for some instant treatment three days before the Senate hearing. I don't understand why this case had not yet been made if it was necessary to renew the license, if that was the only reason for making a contribution. Mixing it with major changes in the fishing system is quite remarkable; without any consultation, without any preparation to be seen. Once again, it's a macropolitic language. There's been a lot of doubt about this in the second decade at least. To think of bringing this into the council on such short notice is amazing work. If there was a desire to specifically help SMEs again, the evidence that long ago this release would be completed would be sufficient time to contact the Parliament on how it would be best to do so. [[The president calls.]] But no, it's not done, it's trying to smuggle it through at the last minute, as a premium of urgency. It's not an acceptable job, I'm not gonna pay for this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u249	President. The question is, accept a variation to take this matter on. Fishing costs are tools that we use to earn money from the common resource of the whole country. The intention of reducing these fishing costs to handouts with a bill from a large part of the employment committee 15 minutes before the end of the council is by no means in order to create an agreement for this payment. In fact, it is remarkable that we are on this journey now. Today, more than a billion dollars are being paid for by the shareholders of HB Granda; at the same time, we are going to prioritize the reduction of hunting costs over all the other cases that await payment. Who can think of such nonsense? Besides, they're just unscrupulous. That we should put it this way, that we are being given 24 hours a day on this matter in vain. There's a lot of hurry-up here, this is the moment, that we're not even supposed to let people do this properly.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u250	Mr. President. It's really nothing but a confusion of some kind that we should be discussing it here seriously or rather protesting it here really - because there's really no one who's going to come up and recommend it - taking this huge political issue, complex, much discussion and debate, and forcing it on a program with variations through the council at the last record when a lot of other things are going to be paid off. These are incomprehensible practices. When you don't get to the bottom of a job, you start to imagine something, and you think, " Is setting a trap for a dog? ' The director of the trade committee, to take this ashes that she is to enter the Kingdom of Heaven, so that I offer freely the references that have been dropped here. [[The president calls.]] What is that? I remember the highest. Ministers and ministers. Councilmen of the left green planned to clean up and sweep up this government team. I'm afraid they're sweeping the wrong house. That's what I have to say.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u251	A respectable president. It is certainly unfortunate that fishing costs are made up three years later. But there's still a way of doing this. It's in the law. It is not unpredictable or unexpected to do anything worse than three years ago. It's just that it's gotta be saved and collected, considering how each year went by itself. That's what I'd think was very normal. It's rather unusual that you somehow have to sort out what's going wrong now because it went well three years ago. I'd like to add: Here's some government conferences, and I'd like to express my concern about this matter. But the directors sit, shut up, and press a button. No explanation, no logic. I call for the position of the Generals, based on the explanations I called after earlier, on where and why this is necessary, for example, because of based policy, as explained by a member of the council at the outset, which seems to be unconvinced to any argument, because this system has done nothing good for the settlements as we all know. [[The president calls.]] Communicators have moved, and the structure of this system has gone very bad.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u252	Mr. President. This is what we've been talking about today, and there's a total of 60% of senators have to agree that a case can be planned if it's not five days' time, if the case comes up after April 1. Now that this has been spent very long, has been tried to talk to the chairman of the council, and there is nothing to be planned unless it is discussed with members of the council. If they are interested in the success of the council, the president will need to speak to members of the council. That is why it is specifically spoken of in the Senate Act of Congress, and it has been set aside in the Senate program for presidents to meet with members of Congress. Otherwise, it's the way it is. This knows the President. He's been at the council for a long time. It's just a waste of time. The president is not prepared to sit down and find ways to share matters so we can work professionally here. This will be written completely on the council president.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u253	A respectable president. I make a lot of comments to the President's conference board today. I can't believe the president made this play all day when he knows what the outcome will be. The time during the council is not well handled when such matters are handled. It's not only a bad time, it's not necessary to stir up the mood here in another very emotional senator with such a wisdom of politics, if I can put it that way. The whole Congress thing is upset now, actually not for the first time. They'll probably be the remainder of this council, because we haven't yet gotten a clue whether the President thinks the deal is going to last. No, it is spreading in some paradox, which is virtually incomprehensible. But I hope -- there's always hope - that something will change after that strange day, which may now be just beginning if the President intends to stay until the morning in the conference.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u254	Mr. President. Unlike many other Western democracies, we set ourselves among the European nations, who do not view any potential greater number of things as taking and taking over all authority, but rather have their less share as right. Here we have tried to make comments and try to get a president to sit down and pay for our work ahead of us. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. The president did not listen to it, and unfortunately, I fear that it might affect the spirit of the council. At least I'll agree with one or two. A senator who suggested that the front page of the Constitution now be rewritten and published the terms 'Salvation' and Respect.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u255	Mr. President. I must express my satisfaction that the greater part, not increasing more things, but the right part, has not been able to impose this tragic matter on the program. I must also express a certain disappointment by the way I behave. A president today, of course, for whom it was totally anticipated. Now it is now past five minutes, and here we could have stood today and paid for some good things, because there are many good cases in the pipe. There are many fine cases on committees that I am prepared to pay and work on instead of standing in this unnecessary rush, which is only due to lack of communication. [[The president calls.]] Nevertheless, I rejoice somewhere in my heart over this position, that this matter has not been established.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u256	Mr. President. Now, we have done exactly two sessions at this meeting, with the conclusion that the 11th session will be off schedule today. I don't quite understand what they were working for right now. I'm wondering why it was decided to go this way rather than try to come to some agreement with us, why it was decided to work this way against us when we all realized the outcome. We've been standing here since 10:30 this morning. Most of the time, it has been discussed as to whether the 11th event should be taken over, on fishing costs, and on the program. Well, that's been done. It's a total waste of time. It's kind of a shitty meeting board.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u257	Mr. President. If I had been president today, I would have postponed a council meeting, spoke to the council president of the Generals, and tried to find some way out of this. This is not what humans are interested in. Two cases are now coming in, which are just in the final meters and then the third issue of great opposition. Then the natural president knows exactly what happens. Of course, the memory part, having no part in the program, cannot do otherwise but say, "It's not working, it's against what was spoken two weeks ago. There is nothing else we can do. That's when the Senate starts naturally because we can't accept such a meeting government and a program like this and nothing to talk about. In the end, the president can say you've taken a stand and said, "You've just been talking and stalling, etc. ' and as a result, nothing can be finished. That's the way it's got to be. And then you get tired and shit. It's not a coincidence. This is precisely played by the playbook that the Independence Party has followed after he has carried out the office of the President of the Generals, as well as other categories. [[The president calls.]] This is exactly according to the old manual on how these jobs are done. [[The president calls.]] The President has the agenda. The president has the authority to consult with members of the council, in order to sidetrack here, to consult. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's all written in the Senate President.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u258	A respectable president. In the spirit of the excellent discussion we had here about Vog, I'd like to talk about responsibility. Here, every man takes responsibility for what he says, what he says in a punk, and how many times he comes in a necklace. That the government right now is teaching the highest. President on how often the government stands up in a pit, it's a joke. I would like to use a greater and stronger word about it, I prefer not to do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u259	You know better than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u260	Maybe you'll let me. Senator, finishing my case before you continue, enough you've spoken today. The government situation here says that the president has known all along how this vote would take place. I knew what it was. Does that not, then, stand against it? Way to go. At the same time, because of the vast number of cases, it is not simply a matter of government opposition. Governments say it's necessary to get on schedule, to allow the case simply for a vote... I repeat my request, please. þm. Jón Þór, I might get some privacy. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] This is the first time I've been here today. Way to go. Do not opposition merely do the same? Let this matter be expressed in a vote, taking it down, and extending what she wanted, i.e. to take the matter off, and to take care of all the good things that are going to happen. Government opposers here pretend that they are concerned with getting into the play of the day? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u261	The president asks why. Councilmen watch their deadlines and others. Councilmen giving a sound to speakers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u262	Mr. President. Maybe it's nice that I'll be right behind you. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otter's son Proppér because he seems to have misunderstood what was exactly what we've been asking for here all day long. We were asking, not that this matter be canceled, but that there would be consultations, natural consultations, and the memory of the part on how things would be handled. It hasn't happened yet. There were many beautiful promises for a intermission, and it has been betrayed in all possible directions. In fact, one reason why we have achieved some success today is that we have made this terrible suggestion to take the matter on the agenda that some great genius might think that it would be fine and necessary to have only more part available for certain votes, just to help with such abuse of power. This tells me that we need much more provisions in Congress where three fifths of the votes or even two thirds are needed for things to go through. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u263	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otttirsson Proppé says that we should have paid for a vote on a matter that we didn't want to see on the program because it was due to some reason that we were very serious about it. It would also have been rather perturbing, knowing that it would take three fifths of the vote to get this out, simply to satisfy the memory of the section to take this matter off the program. Can't we just talk here, talk about what the situation is, find out that this is not a working road, and then we just keep going? No, it's not like that. A conference meeting, a meeting meeting with the president, had to be interrupted, continued with the President's conference board because there was no willingness to settle matters, discuss the matter, in effect finish what was made of in advance. That's what this conference board is about. We have every right to criticize the President's conference board without having some unfortunate errors from the government's members about how unscrupulous we are now.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u264	A respectable president. I'd like to thank a president for letting me know that even though I've missed my signs. I come up here to wonder at a talk. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otttir's son Proppér, who seems not to have listened to what the senators were talking about in this sermon. We were critical of the tactics we have been given here. It is not that we have a particular desire to talk about these matters that are on the program today. We would like to discuss other matters, matters that we have been betrayed in committees. That's what we want to talk about here. Not that there is some delicate matter taken over the issue of government opposition that has even been negotiated, so I repeat it over and over again. It would be very interesting to get clear before the end of the day whether there is anyone here, if not a president, in the management section who intends to live with the contracts made a few weeks ago.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u265	V.E.G. President. I want to come up here to explain my case. I was taken off my way out in the hall, and they said I was not gonna get any signs. I wanted to pay this case with the hunting fees into the council in order for it to be discussed. I've been asking for answers from a sea chief for all winter on this matter. Then it comes on yesterday's program, and I didn't want to stop it. But I didn't vote before for the program now because of what I've said here before today, it's been negotiated for an intermission that my section's case could come out of committees. We have not been able to do so. So I was on the red button earlier on this case, so they say here. I wasn't cheating on signs.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u266	The president would like to say, given the discussion that has taken place today, that it is probably right, even if it were for the sake of the Book News, to determine how that program was born. On Thursday, last week, the office manager of the Congress Office, in consultation with the president, mailed to members of the Parliament, which, according to the tradition established in mid - winter, explained what the Senate week would be and what the main issues would be, would be on the program for the assembly days Tuesday and Thursday. On Monday, local meetings of the classes were conducted with presidents and prime committees with the president. Then the program was reviewed, and everything was basically clear what it would be like on the following day, on Tuesday, and today. Today's program is the only deviation from the fact that an unsurpassed proposal is still being made. Minister of Foreign Affairs on the European Order. Yesterday afternoon the president sent an e - mail to the presidents of each body of Congress explaining in detail how the meeting was planned for today, including that at the end of that program would likely be delivered by committees. By noon this afternoon, the president sent an e - mail to the presidents of all members of the United States, where he appealed these messages and presented others, including when a vote might be expected. In view of this, it is difficult to remain silent. Oh, my God. Councilmen, however, claim to have it confirmed that this is the right case, I'll give them a copy of these e - mails. Sure. Second, as for today's discussion, as well as the outcome, that it was simply a matter of the Senate and the will of the senators in the hall to determine the outcome. Both in terms of approval or indiscriminateness, if that was true of man's will. This was the only way to test whether there was sufficient support in the political process. It was found that it was not in the case of an increase in the share that would have been necessary for the 11th part to find out. And that's the end of it. Democratic and duly called out in a vote here in the hall. Since then, it has been said that the fraud has been made here before a intermission. True, much of the talk has been made about people who were not present at meetings where these matters were discussed. I state that I have not heard such accusations with such strong words from members of the council who were members of that matter, as from some members of the council. The matter was discussed at a brief meeting of the president of Congress at lunchtime, and the president noted that he had observed the cases that had been granted and would continue to do so. It has now come to the last 24 hours, yesterday and today, it seems to me that at least six members of the Senate have been granted a financial payment, including some of the cases discussed before recess and that will be taken to the program here directly following the distribution of the committees. As far as I can see, it seems that there is some progress in handling matters from the committees mentioned here. I ask people to consider whether it's the stuff they have to say about fraud as big as any man has done here today. This must be said by the president at the end, but perhaps not at the end, of this long discussion over words that have occurred here earlier today.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u267	Mr. President. The president here speaks of sending e - mail to members of Congress, and that is correct. What the president does not mention, however, is that we answered them e - mail. The one that says, "It's our understanding, our understanding, and our understanding in the United States that the fishing fees will not go on unless all committees are on the case. " Accordingly, more council leaders took over. You can't talk about speaking when you send a notification by e - mail and answers to them, and nothing comes back but the next thing you see is that it's going to happen. The day holder is not in the hands of a president when it is a matter that is too late. Then the program will be held in the council's hands. Of course, all of us choose to come to an agreement about these things and do not have to stand up, as we have to do here today, in order to make people understand that the matter is not being planned today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u268	Mr. President. The president says it's not true that no consultation has been made. Yes, some consultation was made, and sent ideas on how the program might look; the superior company was a case from committees. Yesterday, the committee brings up a new case. It was not a case that had been presented at 1 Corinthians 15: 58. Environment, session, committee, discussion, discussion, review procedures, reviews, completion of committees and then posts. No, the majority of the committee will take it on schedule and, out of committees. Then this is the group that the president of the Senate interprets as consultations with us on matters from committees. So, shall we just interpret the words of the president so that cases of committees, that subset, can be whatever the government or more part of a committee decides to create or submit to the committee and immediately into the council? No, this isn't fair, this isn't even legal, it's not even traditional, it's very unusual, and it's very unconcerned.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u269	A respectable president. This body of Congress offers a search for a warrant from the Generals to confirm for Iceland the proposed decision made by the joint EEA Committee on the change in XI. Annex to Book 37. This Annex is about electronic communications, audio and image sharing, and information community and the 37 logistics set to 101. g. So this is an Annex and Protocol to the EEA Convention on May 2, 1992, and this is the decision to enter the Convention of the Council of the European Parliament and Council 2016/6779 of the 27 April 2016 for the protection of individuals in connection with the implementation of personal information and the free sharing of such information and breakdown of Directive 95/46/EC, which is considered in the daily speech of the general protection principle and I will refer to this Regulation as such. The general personal protection principle recommends the protection rules for individuals in the processing of personal information and the rules relating to free sharing of information. The rules about basic rights and individual freedom, especially their right to protect personal information. May 29th, at a council meeting. I made a bill for a new law on personal protection, but with them the local law was being introduced into Icelandic just the general personal protection principle. Those who spoke up on that matter noted that the matter was late. Therefore, in view of the Council's work programme, I do not object, and the same could be said of a case I now recommend as a member of the foreign minister. However, in my discussion about the CDC, I mentioned that in view of the long procedure in the EEA, this case was actually too early. It is a fundamental premise for new protection laws, such as this particular bill has been prepared, that the EU's general protection principle has been adopted in the EEA Convention. In this regard, I'd like to point to the 102nd paragraph. The EEA Convention, which stipulates uniqueness in the EEA area, should make a decision on the adaptation of the annex to the EEA as soon as possible after EU approval of new European Community legislation. So the interpretation proposal for which I now recommend is the basis for Iceland to produce new legislation on this subject. This conclusion is thus closely related to No. 622, which I referred to earlier, which I recommended on May 29th, i.e. available law code on personal protection. In my opinion, it might have been more clear to discuss these two matters together, as the president suggested at the council meeting on May 29, but could not agree. Thus, members of Parliament could have been given a clearer view of the shapes of these cases, but a discussion of my history in the case of a case of 622 was much less in the form than the point of view. Then I must say that I was very sorry to discover after a few hours a fine discussion of the personal protection bill, which could easily have been illuminating and helpful for the future, especially to those who have to work under new legislation, that the discussion changed into a traditional seminar for the sole purpose, that it might seem, to prevent the recommendation of the Senate arrangement on that very day as agreed on in the program for the Council of May 29 of May. As far as I'm concerned, this was about an unfounded prowess game that was able to create fear in the business world because of the legal delinquency of this country in a state of personal protection. It is therefore a pleasure to make an announcement today. In a discussion of the subject, 622 and in discussions about votes on the subject, it could be seen that some members of the council felt that these matters could have happened before the council. This is a misunderstanding, but it is appropriate that we draw short from the prehistoric history of the general personal protection principle. The protocol was adopted, as mentioned earlier, in the EU on April 27, 2016, but was not implemented until May 25. As early as April 2016, the Icelandic government began preparing for the recording and introduction of the Regulation. The formula appeared about a year later in Icelandic translation. At first, the EFTA countries had to evaluate individually according to their own legislation which regulations of the Regulation would need to be adapted for the implementation of the Regulation in the EEA Convention. When the diagnostic work was completed in each country, which was in March 2017, a major field inspection of EFTA began on the basis of how it could be adapted to the Regulation for its uptake in the EEA Convention. There were four options taken, particularly protecting the different access of EFTA countries to the European Personal Protection Agency and the value of the decision of the Council to the SECTA institutions. There, the Icelanders did not operate on their own, but it was a deal with our partners in EFTA, i.e. Norway and Liechtenstein. Once the EFTA countries had come together, they had to agree with the European Union on the challenges of adaptation. This view was not trivial, and the decision after it was completed was not easy, but it was that the EFTA nation agreed to deviate from the standard two supporting procedures for the recording of the EEA Convention. In the course of this history, I will later take a closer look at the European Human Protection Agency and its authority. It was the government's opinion that this option served the best interests of Iceland in terms of all aspects of the situation. Part of the detailed analysis of Iceland on the basis of potential benefits at this position was the opinion of Már Stefánsson, Professor emeratus of the University of Iceland, who is part of this Congress. I refer to the appendage IV of the synopsis proposal. In view of this conclusion, Iceland promoted negotiations with the EFTA and EU that the EFTA position on the European SEC should be recorded separately, even though they did not have the right to vote there. Then the Icelandic government also promoted treaties, i.e. Iceland, Norway, Liechtenstein and the European Union made a joint declaration following the decision of the European Commission, specifically indicating that this solution did not have the precedent for adaptation of the types to be entered into the EEA Treaty in the future. A meeting of the declaration and its contents were reached at the beginning of this year and followed by the decision made by the Joint EEA Committee, which is a package of I by the Senate resolution proposal for what I now recommend. Especially do I rejoice that this proclamation has been issued and documented in the way it is currently available. Following the agreement between the EFTA and the EU on the adaptation text for the decision of the joint EEA, the EFTA nation was sent on March 16. In a formal way to the European Union, the decision of the joint EEA Commission on the recording of the European Commission contract. The EU is now required to complete a procedure to agree on a decision in this matter prior to the treatment of the joint EEA committee. Plans estimate that the EU will be implemented in the beginning of June the next, which would be less than three months from the date of their decision to be sent for formal treatment. At the same time, the process for the National Parliaments of Norway and Liechtenstein has advanced in terms of pre-communication for the recording of the EEA Convention. A respectable president. As we have seen in the Senate resolution proposal that I now recommend, the general personal protection principle is already under way in the European Union starting May 25 of May. However, the rules will not include the EFTA countries in the EEA, including Iceland, until it has been formally adopted into the EEA Convention by making a decision to the joint EU committee and making a decision. The joint EEA committee has not yet agreed to a decision which has not been discussed on the Committee. The date will be followed by the date of July, as will be the case later. However, the decision made by the joint committee, which is a follow-up to the proposal, is presented. By asking for an advance agreement with the Council to adopt the Regulation in the EEA Convention on the decision made by the European Commission, the European Commission does not have to make the decision governmently, which would delay the decision taking effect on the EFTA countries in the EEA. I see my time has come out, if I understand that correctly, so I suggest, more honored President, that the proposal will be followed by this discussion referred to why. Foreign Affairs Committee and thereafter to the second.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u270	A respectable president. I missed a material explanation for the Regulation and the arrangement of what we will discuss in the history of the minister. Perhaps a minister didn't have time for it, because the time ran from her. It would be advisable to give another speech, expected to complete the story, and to provide the material aspects of the principle here to give an advance consent. However, I wanted to ask a minister how much time she thinks the Senate needs to deal with this huge and important matter. Let's do it for now, it'll do fine.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u271	A respectable president. I have to admit that I had not realized how short my time is spent in the history of Congress proposals. In general, I would like to mention that the approval of the Generals in similar cases has not been sought until a decision has been made to the joint committee. However, by the fact that the adaptation and recording contract has been in progress for some time and it is strongly felt that the decision to make a film can become valid as soon as possible after it is made by this proposal for permission to confirm the decision of the joint committee in advance. The importance of this is that the decision of the committee does not have to be taken in a administrative way. It will speed up the ability to make a decision, both in the country and elsewhere. I'd also like to point out that the General Department of Foreign Affairs has followed the progress of the discussions and preparation of the case, as can be considered in Article III, which points to the 2016 Commission's discussions as well as the 2016 General and Education Committee, as well as the 2016 Management Board's discussion of 2018. Thus, it is not true that the Council of Congress has been held in conference discussions on the CDC, that the Council is getting the case at the moment. In fact, it can be noted that the Foreign Affairs Committee was already informed in 2012 of a proposal for new EU legislation on the basis of Article 8. The Council's Regulation on the Constitutional Management of the EEA. After EU approval of the Regulation in April 2016, it was followed very soon by a consultation course with the State Department in accordance with Article 2. The Council's Regulation on the Constitutional Management of the EEA. I think it is very important that the Regulation will be adopted in the EEA Convention on First Opportunities so that there will be no risk of a loss of personal information between EFTA countries, including Iceland and the European Union. It is proposed that the proposed decision be made at the last meeting of the EEA Joint Committee for a summer break, which is at the beginning of July the second. When the decision takes effect, Iceland will be committed to national rights to respect its regulations. I point out that this is a case that has been working on for several years. The Council is very familiar with the preparation. Thus, the Foreign Affairs Committee has been regularly informed about its progress. In that case, the Regulation has discussed the three Parliamentary Parliamentary committees and members of Parliaments presented their views in accordance with Article III of the proposal. [[The president calls.]] So I don't think it takes much time for the council to discuss this and in itself should be able to handle the matter at a meeting of the foreign committee, at one meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u272	A respectable president. It was a long and strange move to answer my question, but all right, it may be possible to review it later in text. This looked like a minister would be completing his career in opposition to a senator instead of simply answering the question, for she was taken with an loop at the end, which is especially interesting in regard to the charges of spoken language, that a minister finds himself compelled to spend his time with a valuable background that came out to blame speakers in another language case. I find that very interesting. I also don't understand why this sort of case, so big and important, should have some formal process, which has been in other parts of the administration system, in Europe, etc., make it possible for the Council to just stamp and say, "Yes, it's fine. Please ask the Minister to explain again why she feels that the council needs only a timeout on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u273	A respectable president. Hv. A senator specifically asked about the time I thought the council needed to handle this. So from 2012 onward, I answered with a reference to the extensive coverage that the Council has given over the years.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u274	New council, new council committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u275	I mention and rejuvenate what I said in my history, what I would have thought was right, especially because I hear it coming. A senator is asking about the contents of the Regulation. The content of this general personal protection arrangement was discussed in the case of No. 622 at the 29th May Summit.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u276	They talked about filing, now okay.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u277	and I don't know better than that. The senator has opposed discussing the two issues, which would have been very illuminating and given a clearer picture of the contents of the Regulation. However, here is a synopsis proposal made by a Foreign Affairs Commission that needs to be taken into consideration, and why. A senator asks, why? The reason is obvious, but I don't know if he knows we're committed to the EEA deal, we have responsibilities there. [[Up front.]] Among other things, Iceland has no choice but to adopt the general national protection principle of the European Union.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u278	I didn't ask about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u279	We're in a hurry. It needs to be added, included in the Annex to the EEA Convention. This is the method of induction that needs to be handled. This will be the only way to address the situation with the National Affairs Committee and the Council in such a way, i.e. To make a decision on this matter, or on the basis of this case, the national law is changed to meet the responsibilities that result from the EEA Convention. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u280	Mr. President. I think it's kind of nice to be embarrassed from the highest level. Minister of Justice just for having been doing my job at the General. I have to say, the debate that took place in the conference hall the other day because of the highest bill. The minister of justice to the overall layer of personal protection that is maligned was absolutely necessary. If the highest. The Minister of Justice is going to go through such a bill on total law, thereby implementing this Regulation, which is very important and important, but at the same time very extensive and burdensome, with some kind of hand-relevanting mechanism that is more complex than they solve, it is of no benefit to anyone. Such induction of this important matter must be careful. That's what we discussed here. Of course, the resolution proposal now being discussed is a fine price, but you wonder why a justice minister goes out of his way in this discussion to intercept members of the council when it was pointed out that the bill was not working well enough instead of trying to explain to the Senate what the matter is. [[The president calls.]] It is the senator who stands here completely incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u281	A respectable president. My comments about the case here at the council may be most clear when you listen to what you have to say. A senator who chooses to discuss the contents of the Regulation, which I understand well because I would have considered it important for the council to discuss the contents of the Regulation and to address various viewpoints on that subject. However, the case under consideration here is not the Regulation but the Constitutional proposal for recording made in the EEA Convention. That is why I mentioned it and wanted it to be said that I had considered better, as suggested at the beginning of May 29, to discuss these matters together to give a comprehensive description of the case. Hv. A senator claims that the bill is poorly developed or may not be made at all. It was not an article on the issue of May 29th. the personal protection protocol. There was no concept of neglect on this bill. There were, however, questions. But there was no one, that I heard, which brought the tip of something better to pass; for I specifically mentioned that there is very little that can be moved either to a better hand or to someone else. The United States has a very narrow format when it comes to changing the bill I gave two days ago because the European Commission Regulation is required to introduce it according to the words. There are a few things that are very well understood in the comments of the bill that can be made in some way. On the other hand, I'm amazed. The General and Education Committee to get to him the bill head of the bill, Björg Thorarensen, who has been regarded as an expert in personal protection, who wrote this bill and made it very well in my opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u282	Mr. President. I don't think we can avoid it here at the General and in this room discussing the contents of this synonym. We can't just skate over it because at some point in the old age, the subject had some publicity at the Council. This case is presented to the Council now. It's here and now at the Council. We are discussing it at the Hall of Congress now, seeing from what has taken place in committees at some other time. I don't really understand why it's the highest. The Minister of Justice does not consider the need for a careful discussion of these matters, both of these eulogy proposals to be discussed and, of course, a bill of the Supreme Court. Minister of Justice, which I cannot agree to, is only in full effect, as required by the regulations. There are many changes. These are so much interest, and they're also very burdensome things. It's got to be good. That's all I'm asking for, i.e. That we are not standing here in the fall with some bastard that needs to be corrected every month for the next two years, as it were. Law on the treatment of criminal cases that are receiving yet another change today. Which is so awesome that even forgetting to talk about appeal in Lands Court is said to be appeal to the Supreme Court. There are several laws that need to be corrected. [[The president calls.]] I don't think this is an example of good work.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u283	A respectable president. Hv. A senator sees again and again reason to be careful with other senators and advisers on how to work. That may be well, so careful. The senator is. On the other hand, I'm pointing out why. A senator is to study the contents and format of this matter. These are two members of Congress, one of the personal protection regulations, a bill to legalize a new personal protection protocol, and they have been made up of those that many consider to be our chief personal health expert. In the past, we have discussed the matter in the past that there is very little room for variation in the subject. Where there is space, it is very well developed, and there is very short evidence of which methods were used. So that's why. A top-of-the-art Board of Education wants to set things up, and that's where she's got the chance to do, as it's settled. This, however, is a judicial arrangement. Hv. A senator asks what its contents are. The interpretation proposal includes exactly seven articles. In this case, the Council concluded to allow the government to confirm for Iceland the proposed decision made by the European Commission included in Article I, the text is there. The General's answer to this case can only be yes or no. Either the World Council agrees to assign the government to be authorized to confirm for Iceland on behalf of this planned decision or not. It is not that a person is going to discuss the subject of this synonym. It's just that you have to record the design for the EEA deal. It's just one thing that I don't know how many hundreds of cases that have happened to the Council in this way. For older senators, it's nothing new, but I realize it. A senator is new here at the council and may need to be brief on the EES hearing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u284	The president made a mistake, and he misunderstood the signal. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy. He wishes to give an answer, and he still gets two minutes a year and a second.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u285	Mr. President. I thank the President for the dismantling. It is a good tradition when it is recommended that time be given to the matter and not a cry about how dull the government's situation is. If so, perhaps there would have been more time to finish the story. The problem with the 1st. The bill was not a lack of understanding of the synopsis proposal and the bill or the treatment of the EEA in general but a lack of time to read the bill, since it appeared too late and was taken on the program without people having had time to pass through these 147 pages. I guess I'll finish them this weekend. On the contrary, I and others kept saying that it would be necessary for the matter to receive speed rather than good treatment at the council. As a result, I've read through the Senate resolution. I just like it. I have nothing on her to put. But today, each member of the government has, in particular, spoken very strongly against handing over power to the European Union. They have recently concluded that there is some administrative question as to whether it can cross over any authority, despite the existence of the EEA Convention. Now I'm aware that the solution to the power market is all about the decision of the EU Preservation Council against the State, not against the public or the companies, and that a professor in town has given it a green light. Yet, it is the power structure of a species that these groups have previously spoken against. So I would like to ask: Can I think of this as a change in the government's attitude toward power promotion to the European Union?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u286	A respectable president. Thank you. A member of the council for this objective inquiry would have been suggested further. I agree with that, this is a certain power campaign to discuss to the European Precinct, as it is called. It is a matter of advice now of 29. The currently active group. But it was the result of a negotiation with the EFTA government to the Commission on the members of the general personal protection principle that the European Environmental Protection Agency would provide these authority. Hv. A senator asks if this is a change of viewpoint on the part of the government. I can tell you that's not so. I refer to a copy of the Parliament's resolution, which is the decision of the joint EEA committee, i.e. Coordinates of the text of the common EEA Committee. I call attention to the fact that it is unusual for this to happen, but it is now. There was a lengthy and rigid negotiation of the EFTA Treaty with the European Commission or the European Union that a joint declaration of the Convention would be made. This is at the end of this leaflet. It shows that the parties, with the two support systems of the EEA Convention in mind and considering the direct and binding effects of the European Environmental Protection Agency's decision-making programme for national monitoring authorities in the EEA, are taking into account the fact that decision-making by the European Commission is directed to the National Competent Authority. This is the first thing to consider, that this institution, the European Protection Agency, cannot make decisions that are subject to individuals. And it also clearly states that the parties recognize that this solution does not have the precedent for adjusting the EU types that will be entered into the EEA contract in the future. [[The president calls.]] I believe Iceland needs to be alert to this trend as it has been. [[The president calls.]] However, this statement is made on the basis of at least one of the statements made. The European Union of these products.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u287	Mr. President. Actually, that's a good answer. True, I am reminded that comparable statements were made earlier on the fact that this is not an example publisher. Perhaps this is not an example, but it does come over and over again that this is the way that a powerful deed is done. Despite the fact that governments are usually ruled by governments that have repeatedly opposed them. You have to admit, I think it's kind of funny. This doesn't bother me at all, and I've explained that before I look at the power market that took place during the recording of the EEA Convention, it's enough to justify further power initiatives. Of course, if people disagree with them, we should adopt a new constitution that will seriously address these matters, rather than always arguing about these details. Yet, it is interesting to dig a little deeper into this. The agreement between the European Environmental Protection Agency and then the Federal Protection Agency, which our agency will focus on much on how well character protection is able to conform to this ◯one-stop mechanism, by permission of a president, who is expected to pay in one place, which is expected in the personal protection directive. Obviously, it is not a payment in one place if some turn to Peronist and find their decision, while others need to get their case kicked up to the Department of Human Protection. Could a minister possibly explain to me a little bit more about how this interaction is designed for the future? Perhaps especially in view of the fact that this is being used in various European countries, there is an effort to maintain a measure of harmony.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u288	A respectable president. As for the European Environmental Protection Agency, I mentioned that it was a negotiation between the EFTA and the EU to adopt this type and adapt it. This means that the EFTA State's surveillance authorities will participate in the activities of the European SEC and will have the same rights and duties as the European Commission of the Member States in the SEC, without having the right to vote or present themselves in the Presidency of the Council. However, it was established after contracting that the CDC should document the specific position of the EFTA official according to the incident. By this means I must say that the personal protection agencies in the EFTA countries in the EEA have a complete access to the Council's work and discussion in that area. The EFTA countries will be able to participate in the system on payment in one place, as it is said, and the harmonisation system on the basis of EU Member States. Thus, the EFTA Personal Protection Agency will have complete access to the preparation, investigation and management of individual issues affecting the implementation of cross-border personality information. It has been assessed by the government by the EFTA states and ours in Iceland that this power exchange is permitted by the Constitution, including as the authority documents of the European Protection Agency are directed against the surveillance authorities, i.e. Person protection agencies in the countries, but not against legislators or individuals in the countries. I would particularly like to refer to the opinion of Professor Stefánsson, who is included in package IV of the proposal, which he evaluated on these different options for the recording of the model in the EEA Convention. In this regard, he is particularly concerned about the outcome of this counsel and the promotion of power. But I share, if I understand why. A senator rightly, his concern about evolution in this regard. [[The president calls.]] There's potential material on a larger discussion of the development of the EEA contract.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u289	Mr. President. There are now some things that need to be discussed with this synonym, despite what I said to the minister, that I read it over and that I'm reasonably satisfied with the results of it. This is a relatively standard recording of the EEA and is being approved on our behalf. It is clear that if we do not agree to this at the council today, this will not be possible in Norway or Liechtenstein. That's a bit of a concern. There is one of many reasons why, in my opinion, the matter should go through very quickly, anyway, the synonym. I'm setting a lot more warning about the bill than it is in part, as I mentioned earlier, because I haven't yet finished reading it. I was tracking the background of the case just the other day. The personality protection directive has been developing since 2012 and has become one of the biggest issues in the European Union since I began to watch something from European politics. That's a huge law of command. It took years to develop. There is even that, and I doubt that there is a general principle in the European Union, a documentary on how this Regulation came about and how it developed through the European Parliament. It shows how much emphasis is put on doing this right, and it is an enormous step for personal protection and privacy in all of Europe and its exports, and in fact in other countries. In recent days it has been noted that companies in the United States, India, and China and others have to adapt to the European Personal Protection Act to simply continue doing business with European countries. This may be a diplomacy of a different kind than we are used to and still, perhaps something that major powers have done over the years, and should not surprise us that the European Union does so on and off. It's as if I'm saying it's normal to make this council mishap without more amazing remarks. In itself, this is a simple source. The problems are more likely to arise in the bill where the Regulation is implemented. I find it quite surprising that the government of groups of people who have been constantly and constantly pointing out that expeditations are in violation of a constitution, although they are not, agree to go this specific way in the implementation process. If I had enough time, I have a pile of questions I could ask a minister. I wondered specifically why this route was chosen and which other routes were involved. By the recording of the EEA types, there are usually three possible exports in the management of the Agency. It is interconnecting with the European Environment Agency, in some way being done, which is actually being directly handed over to the European Union. Alternatively, you can go to ESA, the EFTA monitoring facility. The third is that this will end with an appropriate institution in each EU state, then a personality protection in this case. On page 18. 10 of the Parliamentary Directive says, with the permission of the President: The EEFTA state discussed four different options for adapting the Regulation. Then it continues but never explains the four choices. This is one of the things I would have liked to understand a little bit better. There are also some questions about how the interaction will take place. I went into that a little bit in front of a minister of mine earlier, exactly where the separation will be. True, I did have an excellent answer, but I still think that a slightly clearer picture needs to be drawn, especially for the Senate committee that comes along with the Senate resolution proposal. In fact, I have extremely little to add for a while. It's such a completely standard approach. Although I can ask a lot of questions, I honestly finished telling many of them at the Foreign Affairs Committee when the matter was being discussed there yesterday, if I don't forget. The days are all starting to come together. But the big mails are still in the bill, and I guess the discussion will be considerably longer, more complex, and more detailed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u290	A respectable president. I cut it at the end of the day. A senator pointed to me some questions that I'm about to address in my second speech in this matter, excellent questions that give me the opportunity to break up the possibilities that were involved in the recording of the EU dish. But I would like to ask. A senator. He mentioned in his speech that he gave the other matter priority, so to speak, i.e. No. 622, the bill on the personal protection protocols I ordered two days ago. He said that he would put in advance, but he could support this synopsis for him. Hv. However, a senator mentioned that he would still study the bill. But I heard him deliver a speech from my personal history in which he described that he had been following these matters for a very long time, and repeated it here, in fact, since the matter was first born in the European Union years ago. I assume he knows the protection program as it comes from the cow, so to speak, as it was approved in 2016. Therefore, I would like to know if he could mention just one point that he feels is in harmony with the Regulation in this legal matter. Now I suggest that the bill I recommended is an Icelandic text written here and is designed to provide an overview of the personal protection principle, the general personal protection principle, which is a package. The character protection rule itself is a package of this bill, and it becomes a law, a law. I ask in view of the reason why. A senator has been paying close attention, and he gave a long talk two days ago without checking whether there was one point he would not agree with on the bill I recommended. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u291	Mr. President. To tell you the truth, I'm well described at the bill, by what I've read, but the concern I had about the other day is still about some extent, and as we know, the trend in the management of the EEA in councils to pursue the so-called gold coateds where there is a specialist order that is to agree with the whims of the council at any particular time. Of course, I wouldn't agree that this bill would go through without it being completely clear who they are. For example, consider the 14th rib. 12 / 15 ... ondissolvementfiles,Jig. the National Constitution of Iceland. These are all the factors that are completely specialised in this process. Then there's the daily fines that come out. There is a cut-off point each age should be associated with the child's approval for services in the information community. True, there is a 13-year-old standard that arises from the COPA legislation in the United States from 1994 rather than 1995, I believe. But now I see that the minister has left the hall, so it may be difficult to keep responding.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u292	No.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u293	It's not just one thing, it's a lot of things I'm worried about. Then I spoke extensively about it the other day, which maybe was my primary point, that there's a considerable gray area in the bill about 4. g., grey area due to an automatic workout called in English, by permission of President, This is a point that ended in the Regulation in spite of a lot of politics on the sense that it was difficult to interpret and that it would clearly show just how far it will affect Europe's rights and the many companies and persons who fall under it, that I think about 500 million. ... aman. [[The president calls.]] It's complicated, of course. On the way, though, I would like to ask, " Could I get an overview of these four approaches? '
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u294	A respectable president. I'm going to let myself enjoy being here with the position of the man who answers to the speech of the dog. Senator. As I mentioned earlier, in my second speech, I plan to review only the four ways that were available for recording. I'm very interested in the content of this Regulation, and I know why. A senator would be very interested in this and certainly have some opinions. That's why I reiterate my question if there's one point, I'm not asking for more, just so I can have a lunch over the weekend to think about, one point in the bill that he thinks might have been better off or should be somehow different. I cut it down in my speech anyway. The senator after my background on the CDC called for it to be explained, stated, the rules in the bill, what in the bill, the Icelandic text, to some extent separated from the text of the Regulation. This is shown on page 36 of the bill. In fact, it specifically explains what points were allowed to be separated from the content of the Regulation and not just allowed but, in some cases, obliged to expand specific aspects. I take, for example, the approval of children with involvement in community media which states that Member States can decide whether they have a lower age than 16 years. Hence, it was necessary to consider the age in this country. This is done in the bill of 13 - year - old age. [[The president calls.]] There are such factors that needed to be taken into consideration. But I reiterate my question: Is there a single point, even if there was only one thing, that was a reason? A senator might mention, which would have to be completely different in the bill for the protection laws.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u295	Mr. President. No, I can't say that I've seen something like that, because it seems like it was a pretty good job for a bill. But I'll tell them in advance that I've just read a few articles and then some of the report. I guess I'm about 40 pages into the bill, that's 147 pages, and a lot that needs to be checked at the same time by reading it, e.g. how this was in the treatment of the European Parliament, how comments were made from stakeholders. I've been watching a lot, or compared with the EDIs discussion on this matter, which is European Digital Rights. So, of course, I've also read newspaper articles that have come out, because it's a loan of a considerable fortune that we get a little to see the consequences of this because it went into effect in Europe on Friday. There's been less than a week's experience with the Regulation. I'm not yet in the position that I trust to point out one point. I've pointed out a few things: the electronic monitoring, the registration, the list of Iceland's national records, the day fines and the days, where things have to be done differently and going a separate way. All right. But it must be the exact review of the entire assembly One thing that I mentioned on quite a long time the other day, which still concerns me greatly, is the effects on databases that are not driven by public authorities but who have a public role, e.g. groundwork of the Internet. Then I mentioned the WHOIS database, which is incredibly important. [[The president calls.]] The situation and the circumstances in that database are things that I will worry about until someone convinces me not to have them.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u296	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of Justice for reviewing this synonym on this very important matter, this requirement for personal protection adopted in Europe many years ago, two years ago, or so. Of course, we're discussing this particular council decision, and I will certainly do what I can to pay it, but we've also been wondering about our procedure today, discussing our method of bringing in this specific Regulation, how we've got it in with us. I've previously introduced it in my case that I think we'd better be able to just agree with this synoptic proposal and send a clear message to Europe that we'll be paying this street here at the General Assembly of Iceland to make it clear, at the July meeting of the joint EES committee, that it's our will. Of course, the bill came all too late because it was decided at the Justice Department not to appoint a committee to go to that job until November. Despite the fact that it was all this time, two years, that we had to be at this job, the committee that went on making a bill so that we could form this case in Icelandic just late. We must only point out that the bill submitted two days ago is the same, and it was criticism that included the consultation puzzle, that in certain requirements, the one who is going to read and understand what is happening there should have three documents open on the table before him. That's not a good song. The contents of the Parliamentary decree are clear, even to the inexperienced senator here. The Council is speaking of approval that we will support the progress of this Regulation and will not oppose it as such. But it's that complicated leg that's going to be along the way. We decide to go a different way than the EFTA. We don't do it like Norway, we're not going to do it like others, we're going to do it somehow, we're going to rewrite it, and we're gonna make only other rules for us. The progress of this council arrangement must be supported in order not to upset everything. The European Union needs a clear message from us. However, we are in position that a large number of regulations have been approved in Europe, which has not been accepted in Icelandic law. As an example, the EEA Convention is a Regulation in February. which was approved in the European Union in 2014. This Regulation has not been implemented in this country. Of course, it's not unique, we have a lot of these things. I'm going to have such a bad job that we've been talking about, about the induction, just isn't available. It needs to be done better. As the senator has previously said, we need to be careful. Only on the subject. There are, of course, rules regarding individual protection in connection with the processing of personal information, rules relating to free sharing of information. This is the fundamental right of individuals, and at the time we are living today, this is a key factor. We'll see how things are going for us. For example, you wonder, " Why are Iceland's children losing their rights more than those from the European Union? ' Why are we going to have other rules for Icelandic children when it comes to agreeing on e.g. The distribution of personal information on community media? Why are we going to have 13 - year - old teenagers in Iceland agree to something they may not understand? I wondered if there is something that has been pondered sufficiently. Why can it not be so that the guardian must agree? We have no doubt that the personal protection, the protection of personal information, is of utmost importance. That's the most important thing. Happily, many governments, Icelandic institutions and corporations, long ago, have begun preparation for this Regulation, even though Icelandic rulers or government authorities have chosen to bring in the products at this hour. I'm not gonna have any further comments on this for now. I'm glad that this council proposal has come in here and is looking forward to seeing how it will be discussed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u297	A respectable president. I can tell by the way you talk to me. A senator that disagrees with what is suggested in the bill regarding the age of children in order to agree to be on community media. It claims that it is less right than the right of children on continental Europe. In fact, she specified 12 - year - olds, but the bill refers to the age of 13 and is particularly logical with reference to local communitymaking. [[Up front.]] I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether she knows how to do this in other countries. Whether other countries intend to live at 16 years of age. Less than ten European countries have set up in their legislation to coordinate it with the personal protection principle. There is a need for all countries of Europe to alter their legislation, although the Regulation itself is valid, the legislation required to be adjusted as required by the Regulation needs to be expanded further. I'd like to know if she knows what state we're going to aim for when we're not 13 years old. Mostly, though, I wanted to know exactly what the senator, who always spoke of a bad way of doing all these things, would want to see. It indicates that many of the directives have not been introduced here for many years. That's right. But there is a physical difference between this personal protection principle and other regulations and the directives adopted by Iceland. I want to know what's wrong. A senator sees the difference. And in view of physical nature, I'd like to know what it is that the senator would want to do, what way and when she would have wanted to see that this personal protection program would be introduced into Icelandic legislation, as well as by the reference that the joint EEA committee has not yet adopted its contract, the EEA Convention. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u298	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister very much for the questions she offers here. She asks: "Did the senator learn what state is that has changed the set standard for a child's approval? The Senator is aware that some state has changed its plan, but I doubt that it was the highest. Ministers are requesting that the senator stand here and recite the specific state. However, the Regulation says that it is a government decision to change the regulations of the Regulation in some specific way. What difference does it make whether a certain state will choose to do something else? I don't know what that has to do with anything. I would have thought this might be exactly what is being discussed when it comes to changing from what the European Regulation says. That's exactly what we should be wondering about here, why this path is gone, and not another way. V.E.G. A minister also said that there was a difference in nature between this and other and how the senator had imagined that this had done something different. For example, the senator would have felt that the committee assigned to do this bill would have gone into operation when it became clear that we would have to go to the introduction of this Regulation, not 15 minutes before it went into effect. It was quite possible that the Regulation would take effect on May 25. [[The president calls.]] That's for sure. Why then start working with the bill's contract so late?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u299	A respectable president. I'm going to discuss in particular the group appointed last November and how work that he may not have started directly, it was long started at the Ministry Department - I'm going to explain it in my second speech, but I'm going to question my question, in view of the fact that the procedure has not been adopted in the EEA Convention. There's no custody of the Minister of Justice, if that's the goal of it. A senator would come to him, though I am now in the office of the minister of foreign affairs. There is no doubt that the design itself has not been recorded in the EEA Convention. The context needs to be considered. The negotiations I've described in my speech and answers, which were between the EFTA and the European Union, have to be considered on the basis of the procedure in the EEA Convention and the time it took. It's inevitable. But the work on the bill had long since begun. However, I ask why. A senator: How would she have wanted to handle this matter in another way? For example, would she have thought it normal for the council to produce a new personal protection law long before the decision was made by the joint EEA committee? Would that have been normal? Would have been normal to submit the bill for, for example. a year ago? The formula was available in Icelandic translation a year ago. It would also have been possible to supply regulations, as was the case in Norway. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. A senator would like to introduce this personal protection program in the same way that Norway did? I note that the Norwegian Protection Agency's comments on the bill there and that the introduction included more than a hundred pages, if not hundreds. [[The president calls.]] I ask: Is that how you feel? The senator's introduction involved this personal protection system in Icelandic national rights with the raw text of the Regulation? Would there have been an explanation for those who have to work in this environment?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u300	Mr. President. I appreciate that second question. How would the senator want things arranged? Yeah, I'm on top of it. Minister, I think there might have been a better way to take the Regulation raw as it came from the cow, in order to reduce the complexity level. To make it clear that there was a good thing to do rather than leave what we were given. It is a complexity because of the speed at which you work. It seems somehow, perhaps not incomprehensible, but there is a precise speed of action, as is the case at the highest level. Minister of Justice, that you cannot entirely trust that there is enough work to be done. It has been shown that so that you can understand the requirements of this bill, and the highest. The minister of justice has already been pointed out, with three documents placed in front of him to compare them, since the rules are not clear on what is being discussed. A bill in question is a penalties, the pressures of government fines of 2.4 billion. It is such a burden that it is absolutely unacceptable that it is as vague as that bill shows. But the Regulation is a fine price. It's a good thing. Of course, we should pay that way. But once again, I wish the minister would come into trouble. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u301	A respectable president. It has been said that GDPR introduces new landscapes in personal protection. As I have said before, with GDPR it is necessary to control the public and grant him large-sized rights. This is an important and long - term part of protecting individuals in the processing of personal information. It is a cause for joy and, in particular, joy at times when large corporations'rights are too often put ahead of public rights. So I hope that's a sign of improvement for all of those matters. It is hoped that there is a world standard change in these matters. In fact, the one mentioned earlier has declared its pleasure through its introduction to the Regulation. I have sensed general satisfaction within the council with the expected induction. And even if I haven't had time to finish all the regulations I'm going to enjoy doing this for the weekend. As I understand the situation, it seems quite necessary to pick it up here in the country, so that we may join the European nations we have committed to walk with, to prevent tension between Iceland and the rest of the nations. I fully understand that this is truly the nation's interests for a considerable extent. However, at the same time, I'm concerned about it and I don't think it can be at the expense of individuals, companies and rural society in this country. As I said in the beginning, a new landscape has been referred to in connection with GDPR. Thus, there is a new landscape in the legal environment. That's why I'd like to direct that question to the highest level. The Minister of Justice whether it is of no concern that the induction period has been too short to make it wise to dispose of it here in the Icelandic legal environment and that this, for example, does not have a negative impact on rural society, perhaps small rural communities that do not have financial success, which could land on matters where they were due. That's kind of my biggest question to the highest. Minister of Justice on GDPR this time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u302	A respectable president. Thank you. Congress members who have participated in the discussion and many people have been perturbing and have given their perspective on this matter. I try to keep my eyes to a better perspective than my eyes. I am subject to the concern of members of Congress for this matter, i.e. It's a matter of time here at the council. Surely I would have wanted to give the council more time to discuss these matters. This case is very special. It is of particular interest that Iceland has to implement the European Commission in this way, a Regulation that states that European enterprises commit a legal offense in violating this Regulation by providing data to countries that have not introduced it, or have not received special access, or by the European Union. This Regulation has something very special in mind. In view of this, it was necessary to do this great work in preparation for it, which was now only two years' time. I'm pointing, like the rest of us. Congress officials have made that normal directives, even on the smallest points, have been here for years in consideration of both the council and the administration, and the general administration, and in all kinds of respect for the influence and advantages of implementing such directives. Most of the time, it's a perfunctory delay, even if it takes years. But in this case, we are given a very short period of time. It will be in my opinion to write to the European Union, in what way this Regulation will be set in such short notice, a two-year lead-in period for the European Union. The circumstances and interests of the EFTA countries will remain to be taken into account. There is a discussion that needs to be followed, i.e. Development of this cooperation between EFTA and the European Union. It is probably to do so and to hold that matter and other matters that have resolved in a similar way, though not identical, in this regard. Therefore, I insist that it was important to get this declaration made on the accounting, in a draft, which will be set in the decision of the joint EEA Committee, a declaration that this is not an example. I would also like to mention specifically - for it has been found, as shown in a report, that a special task force was formed on November 21, 2017, which was assigned to start the bill - that this is not really a proper description of it. Björgu Thorarensen was contacted on spring days of 2017, and for my part, I agreed that the bill would be negotiated to take in the bill. Because of her personal circumstances, it could not be done until the fall, but I know that she had begun to plan all of this long before the team itself had officially met. To look at the date on these issues is quite wordy, or human beings are losing their minds on much of the details. In my opinion, this case has been held by the Ministry of State and the Ministry of Justice, the Department of Internal Affairs, before May 1, 2017, with great prowess. Men have tried to push this issue as quickly as possible. I agree with that, too. The members of the council I've been identifying in my discussion with today, but also in my history of the identity protection bill two days ago, it's difficult to enter these issues. But I feel worse, and I think there's a misunderstanding, when people find that the induction is taking place in the way that it does here, i.e. with a new personal protection law that points to the Regulation. It is true that Norway, by taking the law as it comes from the cow, sets the law, the very thread, the bandorms, to change the law. I must admit that at least I do not trust myself quickly to read the general personal protection principle and put myself in it. In fact, I have been instructed that reading it at pars should not be started at all. and 2. g., as one usually reads legal bills here, it has to start in the middle of the process. There's something you need to know about the SEC in order to enter it. It's for these reasons that I made the decision to hide Berga Thorarensen to write a bill for a new identity protection law. It is a great improvement for those who have to work by this system to get a complete law text set out in the form we know here in Iceland and work by, lawyers and companies, and then be able to look into the Regulation to fill it up. That, of course, is the text of the Regulation that always applies. I have not heard anyone contradicting it, professional or otherwise, even though comments were made in the early stages of the case. But when people saw the extent of the situation and the method of induction in Norway, I could only hear that people were very comfortable with it and grateful that this way had gone. The other way would have been much less expensive and simpler from my viewpoint, to introduce it as Norway does, but a lot of comments are made in Norway. The Human Protection Agency there gave a review of 387 pp. at the introduction, and it took quite a while for the council to settle into that matter. But the law there has been accepted. Hv. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir found that, I just want to come to, that the legal protection of Icelandic children would be somewhat less than the right protection of other children regarding their age of approval with community services. Now, for all the northern countries, the decision has been made to deal with the age of 13. So does Iceland, and I don't think that's practical enough in view of the community we live in here. There is no need to be afraid of allowing 13 - year - olds to be on community media. Of course, there is a lot of training that parents need to remember that their responsibility is, of course, theirs. It is those who set the rules for social media use, not for social media themselves or for their children. In a matter of what. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy said that the provision of day - to - day fines is some kind of novelty or variation from the Regulation. That's not true. The rules exactly allow us to set rules for daylight. For 16 years the law has been the law on these matters. They have never been used by the National Institute of Human Protection in Iceland, but this is a means by which men now believe to serve best in order to keep humans in touch with the material in these areas. There's no change here. The same can be said of them. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy mentioned when referring to electronic monitoring, off-limits, and credit-trust information, as he mentioned, which are some kind of novelty and aberrant from the Regulation. All of this is materially already in the law today. There is no change there. I would like to take a brief turn, since I was specifically asked about the reason. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy, who wanted to know which four ways were in the position when it came to the recording of the EU contract. It is very well described in the line IV levied by the concierge that I was measuring for, which is the opinion of Már Stefánsson, Professor emeriatus, on administrative matters. Chapter 4 specifically discusses these four factors. These include that, first of all, he thinks last time, it would have been possible to hide the EFTA facility from making binding decisions to control in the EFTA state. The European Union would not agree with this at all. Second, there was a possibility that EFTA would be established to make binding decisions, too. It lay ahead and was tried hard to negotiate with the European Union, and it did not work. Third, an implementation was assumed that the European Environmental Protection Agency produced opinions or decisions that would not be binding on the EFTA. It wasn't acceptable either. The only thing in the situation was that the Icelanders and EFTA countries were placed in front of the door to become members of this European Precinct without vote. In fact, the Norwegians were very involved, so the Icelanders were now a little swimming against the current. Finally, I want to say this: I am absolutely certain that the European Protection Protocol, the GDPR as it is called, will make physical changes over the next year and years. [[The president calls.]] It's inevitable. There's gonna be a lot of opinions. This will be many companies in the European Union, much more than in Iceland, heavy in the womb and European governments when it comes to negotiations with big countries, such as the United States and China. Let's see where that trend is going to take place, but it will reach here, too, at the EEA community site. But the responsibility for all of this is in the European Union.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u303	A respectable president. I'm here to present a commission about billing to last budget law for 2016. The objective of the bill is to search for the resolution of the Generals of 2016. The purpose of the final budget is to state the provision of the documents at the end of the year, i.e. whether the end of the year should drop or move to the next year. For the last time, a bill to the end of the budget is presented, so some milestones are being discussed with the release of this case. With law No. For official financial reasons, 123/2015 made a number of changes in the financial structure currently in 2017. These include the fact that the bill to be submitted on a state bill replaces a bill to the final budget. The structure of the bill is standardized and includes two legal branches, as well as validating branches. The problem comes with two of the follow-up documents with the bill. The first is an overview of the change in budgets of 2017 due to the port of 2016's endpoint. The latter is an overview of the origin of funds, taxable fees, and income and status at the end of 2016. As shown in a table in this section of the Committee, and I do not read here, see paragraph 1. The bill proposes the payment of a $2.2 billion bill. Because collections of market income and other businesses were found to be higher than budgeted. In general, the difference between the final estimated revenues of the budget will lead to equally significant change in budgets of the relevant budget. In this way the respective Member States are equal to those of the previous Member States, i.e. They do not benefit from or lose money because income according to government accounts turns out to be either higher or lower than expected in budgets. Two. is suggested for downloads at the end of the year, i.e. leftovers or tails fall by the end of the year instead of moving to the next year, which is a principle of financial status. The table shows that the overall score is 13.6 billion. At the end of the year, there are variations in both directions. The remaining clearances are 40.3 billion, but the cost is over 54 billion. Of the individual wastes most, the estimated 8 billion per year, and 5.8 billion on the past unscheduled expenses, less than 2 billion on the road, 1.3 billion on the 14-381 Omission Fund and finally 1.3 billion on the past 08-376 hospital building on the property of the Land Hospital. Of the total 40.3 billion remaining sources, 18.3 billion, or 46%, appear on these five teams. The bill's report provides explanations in several cases, such as due to a capital tax that moves both to pay and to pay. Most of the upper expenses are found on two joints. One, 27 billion bucks. in the end of Pension bonds, pensions, and 21 billion, respectively. beds along the Substitution of property and stocks. A total of 89% of the excess charges are observed in these two joints. Penalties for Pension bonds are based on a commitment-changing plan, and the charges depend on the results of insurance calculations, and in 2016 there was a large difference between plans and results. Expenditures due to the deportation of property and stocks are largely explained by 20.5 billion dollars. a record of the value of Iceland's Sources Bank due to bank losses during the year. In addition, the government's ownership share in several partners is moved down this year to match their own financial status at the end of 2016. In the bill's report, financial and economic guidelines are presented in connection with the provision of the annual budget status. In part, it shows that the year's final status is generally reduced to legal and treatal teams, e.g. due to tax reforms where expenses are more legal than financial management or projects are subject to the responsibility of certain administrative organisations and can be controlled without any change in the law. The rule is, however, that jobs, maintenance and stock costs are moving between years, especially from the taking of public financial laws. Transfer of a position to which most joints should lead to improved strategy as failure to cope with ADRs at the end of the year can be avoided. It is expected that 33.4 billion dollars from sources will be dropped at the end of the year, or 19.8 billion positive places will be moved to 2017. Is it a little bigger than the previous year when 16.8 billion positive places were moved from year to year? The differences are especially explained by improved road position, which was negative by 234 billion. K. In 2015, but positive at less than two billion dollars. at the end of 2016. In recent years, a review of the state has criticized the extent of transport between year and year, both extenuating costs and positive positions, pointing out that it is not reasonable to automatically transfer a negative status between years if co-ordinated measures are not made to reduce expenses. This criticism has often been adopted by a financial committee. In the years before the collapse of the bank, the transfer of from year to year was less than 5% of the total financial resources of the year, but it significantly reduced them until this bill. Ported legal rights, except for about 2% of total budgets in 2016. The committee reviewed the end-of-the-year period and the release recommendations. A search was made for explanations in areas where abnormalities were severe. Questions were addressed to the representatives of the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs as well as to individual advisers. There was an explanation from all the problems involved. Differences between individual subjects. In a number of cases, there are differences in the position of individual subjects in institutions with more than one subject. Some of these subjects have very much leftovers, while others have similar angles. During the previous year's final budget, transfers between subjects were specifically taken, yet there are examples of this difference in 2016. The committee directs them to recommend special attention to such errors and ensure that they will be corrected permanently. This is especially evident in clinics in the country where, for example, the area is located. Health - care status is positive for more than 300 million. K. However, there is a limp in the field of health care. This is important to correct, especially because there are now health institutions and litigators involved. The Commission is aware that the Ministry of Health has had preconceived adjustments in this state within 2017 and permanently in the budgets of each year. Unregistered budgets. The committee noted that too often the year's positive status is explained by the failure of the budget funded at the end of the year. In fact, she has an understanding of this, since in 2016 a twofold bill was presented for financial support. The first bill was submitted in September, and became a law in October, which was merely made changes in budgets due to several budgets approved in the government earlier this year, as well as other unpredicted budgets that could not be dealt with within the current budget. The second bill was submitted under unconventional circumstances. It was proposed by a board of directors, who had not been able to form a new government following the General election at the end of October 2016, as well as the fact that it was not submitted until mid - December and approved just before Christmas. Nevertheless, the Commission believes that governments should be more alert to the need for financial resources to be used during the year that they are being purchased. The rest of the money is boiling. The greatest positive positions of years are found in various funds. It is the biggest treasure in overaves, with expenses being within the budget for years. In addition, there are a lot of funds from the Department of Professional Roads and Neoplasms that are linked to the fishing grounds, where positive waterfronts rise each year. The committee stresses more harmonizing with the strategy, and the budget more closely reflects the actual estimated expenses of the fund. Changes in translocation followed by new laws on government finance. As mentioned earlier, the bill for the final budget is now submitted for the last time. A bill to be approved on a government account will be replaced. Many changes in accounts are made for the first time in 2017. The committee feels that there is now reason to review and review a procedure in connection with the transfer of documents and the external fees from year to year. In this regard, it is especially noted that the committee will try to reduce the number of joints in which the years of the year are dropped. I'm running a businessman. As a result of a reduction in the county service, the sum of money was 272,3 billion in total. K. Final budgets for 2015. The results of the bill show that their operation has not been successful. By the General's payment of a change in the administrative law, certain changes were put in place to trust the embellishment. A financial committee points out that there has been a delay in the management of the EICs and that plans for the transport of projects have not been fully carried out. During the 2018 follow-up, plans for their business to be properly organized are made. A financial committee stresses that in connection with budgets for 2019 it has been successful in getting their business straight. It is then a recommendation by the Committee to review the plans and criteria for the reduction of EICs and to explain why the move of projects is not going to be fully accomplished. At the end of this article, we will consider the findings of the committee. Despite the above indications, the Commission does not suggest a change in the bill. Explain the difference. because it is a long time past the end of 2016 and the specific problems associated with changing the Member State's accounts over time with a reimbursement of change proposals. Also, the bill is now submitted for the last time and the Committee considers it normal to review the procedure and rules for the disposition of the year in connection with the implementation of public financial laws. So the committee suggested that the bill be accepted as unchanged. The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson, an officer of the Committee, is in agreement with this view. The wonder of this committee's opinion all write why. Legal Committee, i.e. Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson, chairman, Haraldur son of Benediktsson, vice president and spokesman, Valgerður of Gunnarsdóttir, Gunnarsdóttir Olsendsdotir, Björn Leví of Gunnarsson, Páll Magnússon, Ágúst Ólafur Águr Ágústsson, Birggis the Birgir of DjörnarinÞórarinsson and Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Izzk.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u304	V.E.G. President. We'll talk about 2nd. a bill to the end of the budget for 2016 and the existing committee opinion. It's a legal committee, just like that. A senator and vice president of the Committee, Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, went through quite well in his history. In this final budget, we have the expenditures of individual teams so that practical measures are made to settle into the terms of government accounts and to compare the budgets of 2016 with the expenses of budgetors for the same year. The follow-up documents of the bill provide an overview of the change in budgets of 2017 for the rest and excess fees at the end of 2016 with 19.9 billion dollars. Transferring to 2017 The review of 2 with the bill is such the origin of the 2016 budget, the revised bill and status of the year, or as shown in a table in a committee list, that situation is at the end of the year. Packs over the record are 13.6 billion. and the difference is then transferred from year to year and dropped at the end of the year; 33.5 billion are dropped by the end of the year. In the years before bank collapse, the scope of the move between the two countries may be high enough to allow net noise to reach more than 5% of each year's budget. It was criticized not only by the Management Board and the budgets of the day but also by the scope of it. After a crash, the deposit was reduced, and this is now requested to be transferred to sources of 2% of the budget. The figures we're considering here are thus figures in line with budgets, funding laws, and balance of state account. The postpostages, in this way, can be said to be found in the table presented in a committee program of 1,251 million. K. which are due to the production of incomes and other incomes being made up of more than the budget is an amendment of the arrangement we are trying to change. Then I'd like to refer to the bill of what we agreed on during the days, as approved by the legal adjustment in various market income laws. Where this aims include: To get out of the office of postponing, I'm going to refer to what is said in the Committee to Commission Committees, by permission of the president: It does not match financial management with a frame of budgets, which aim to keep expenses within a fixed budget, that the funds of the institutions are changed to the final budgets of the market budgets of a year, rather than to hold them on to the budget and priorities set for the budget. One of the main objectives and key reasons for making contributions to the government's budget management is that making decisions on government revenues will only be taken into budgets and amendments and that subsequent financial documents will thus end up in the final budget. Last time, the last time we said, we're going to make sure that we're able to make a statement about the bottom line and the debt from year to year and are now submitted. It has been recommended since 1997 by law since then, No. 88/1997, government traffic. We accept a bill in accordance with official financial law, No. 123/2015, on the agreed state bill, which will continue to require introduction and debt between years. But look at 58th. By permission of the President's permission of a government law on government finance: The secretary shall submit a bill at the Council for confirmation of state accounts. The report on the bill says that the results of the account are to be discussed and explained as to the variation of income, spending, and credit issues from the approval of the Council's sources. But now, the bill that will be delivered for the last time in this form is based on a provisional law on public finances. I'm going to go back to the law, by permission of the President: ▪ In spite of the regulations of 68 C.E. shall be for financial contributions and final financial laws, and in 2016 shall follow the regulations of the state's revenues, No. 88/1997. The same applies to the annual accounts of the Member States until 2016. (7) I believe, a respectable president, originally intended this would be to observe that it has not been captured. In addition, although it may be assumed that the final budget should be submitted along with the publication of a government bill, I reiterate what I said earlier, it has never been the case, but a variable amount of time between them, not now that the bill was submitted in December where the 2016 bill was completed six months earlier. It can be assumed, therefore, that from now on it will be improved in a way that will bring forward a donation to the accounts itself. In recent years, it has been customary for a financial body to meet with the government officials and to have the legal committee advising a new bill in order to obtain detailed explanation because of certain kinds of remunerations and financial warrants. Instead, it can be said or thought that by means of a new law, there will be a more effective monitoring of budgets, which is a prominent part of the public financial law, and it will be discussed in IV. a chapter in that law. It says, by permission of the president: - Uh-huh. - Uh-huh. the section on the implementation of budgets is a set of regulations designed to contribute to effective monitoring of the management and administration of public funds and to bring further discipline on the implementation of budgetary measures by explaining the role and responsibilities of budgeting. National policy and increased emphasis are put on the surveillance of each Minister with the budget development of litigation and the responsibility of management officials on the management of citizens. It's a way of doing what you're doing. The legal committee was also involved in a more detailed explanation because of certain tax and legalities and reviewed them, as the committee noted. By that time, the end point of the year was reviewed and the suggestion for fossilization was reviewed, especially explaining positions where there were significant variations. A few suggestions are shown in the opinion of a man or a woman. An executive and vice president of the Committee, Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, traced it in their history. I would especially like to draw attention to the fact that governments will have to correct the problem when spending does not seem to be at the appropriate cost point or subject, so the exchange of funds is not consistent with expenses. About that point. A manager went over, as well as mentioned in the committee's opinion and shows that such discrepancies between individual subjects are a direct recommendation to take particular care of such discrepancies and make sure that they will be corrected for the future. May we say that this lulls in part to what we would call more efficient accounting, thereby controlling the cost of home living. Hv. An authority also stated that the committee is aware that this was the case with a gangring device, including one of the committee's actions. In the Ministry of Health, and in charge of corrective action for this being within 2017. That's fine. Hv. The legal committee hopes that it will remain in the budget of each year. As I said before, and have been observed, including. in a committee party, we're doing this for the last time. I want to thank you. Legal committees and committees for work progress in this procedure by the Commission in the processing of the case. Work meetings were conducted, endpoints were reviewed, and major abnormalities were investigated. I appreciate that work effort and solidarity on the Committee. All I'm assuming is that the bill will be approved to complete and remain unchanged.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u305	Mr. President. I'm just going to make a statement about the last budget in 2016. It's always funny when you discuss old matters so long later, and perhaps it's not unusual for people to succeed, as often has happened, although a financial committee has come together to a decision and has suggested that it is a subject that is either lived or done. Since then, governments have been trading and elections have been fairly fast, and little or nothing can be changed. We have, though, done so in the past. We've cut down a few things. We've stuck together. It has touched organizations that have had difficulties and that could not have uninvented them, as shown in this view. That's even. County officials, which I'm going to discuss a little bit more afterwards. Ever since I took my place in a 2013 budget committee, we have been quite compatible with trying to correct, change, and improve the way decisions are made. We have so far, in the opinion of the final budget, critical of how things are moved. And as we continue to do so repeatedly to the Ministry, there seems to be always some sort of social dating, socialization, so that there are no differences between joints, as mentioned here on health care fields, positive about 300 million, with a limp on the scene. That's one of 'cause I've been pointing out every time I'm talking about finals. It's getting better, it's changed. But we on a budget have to be extremely high in order to fit it, because this can be the case with payers, remunerations, and so on. In fact, the final budget was actually used as a budget. That's exactly what you can say. This is one of the things the committee has been quite compatible with trying to change. Although this is the last time that last financial law is presented in this way, the follow-up is in our hands. That's also what we're up against, and I've been fighting when we discussed the government laws on government finance, and then we're just gonna get a bill to sign a bill. That's where we confirm it. We've been able to accept the last financial law into a committee, and we've been able to make some changes. We have, as a matter of fact, been able to do something about it, but now the decision will be announced at the council. If we talk about the transfer of power from members of the council and all of that, there are thousands of skills that we have nothing to say about in that process. Because we're still building a process on public finance, I think that we need to follow it closely in our secretary's report and in other things that we get on board with the new law and wonder how we can get our hands on it and have something to say about it. Maybe that's what I've been wondering about; although we're here on the final budget and something that's long gone by is always shocking to face that it's become a thing. But then we have had the opportunity to change if we have considered a reason. We did so together when we laid down the health care facility. We set up the county position. The Congress thought it was important. I wondered if there are any other ways in which we can handle these matters but directly through the financial laws if something like that would happen that cannot be managed in any other way, but, as the law is certainly meant to cover. There is something that we need to learn better about handling and discussing a legal package on public finances. There's nothing different about these last-tempered embargos. It is a tiny turn, and it is not easy for the council to understand the lyrics of the articles on the final budget. It is not easy to understand what is being transferred from year to year, e.g. An overview of unfinished tasks, you just see a plus and a minus moving between years on the same team, not necessarily an explanation. On the other hand, we on the committee took a considerable job with our employees, who are to be grateful for our work in this context as well as for so many other activities, along with working with our recruitment problems and getting answers to questions and explanations of what we did not fully understand. As an authority well explained, we received an overview of it, so we know what is behind it. I have talked about some outstanding cases, or institutions that are beneath us, the Road Building, and the Ozone Fund, where expenses are within the budget for years. I have criticized it, and I still do it because I want to be assigned to do the work that is there. Inability to make use of the resources, some have been forced. I'm sorry about that, because we're talking about security issues in that relationship. That's one of the things we need to talk about on the budget and get the ministry to meet us and take the position until the next five years during this national budget, and find out what it does about the Ozone Fund and what its projects are ahead of us. We need to review and review a procedure in connection with the transfer of taxes from year to year. I think we need to find out where we can do that, at what point we can intervene in it. Ministers are expected to report to us. Now it's the first time to see the light of the day, I suppose. I guess we'll get them at the beginning of the council, and if the committee meets before the assembly, it could be our first task. I just wanted to talk about the county because we specifically address them in the Committee. I had an opinion of this when that matter was discussed by a local officer. Secretary of the Interior, Ögmundur, son of Jónasson. It was the whole conference room except me--it's natural to have to say that what I said has really worked out and was worried about them, i.e. that the task transfer would not follow. The Agency still has some oversized facilities, etc. I've been sorry to tell you that the project transfer has not worked out. These are public jobs in the scattered areas that you do not want to reduce. The President's review of the cohesion will now be made when the county service was reduced from 24 to 9 and the law was separated. It will be very interesting to see if they believe that the purpose of the union has been achieved, since more or less capital protection has been made since January 1, 2015. It also aims to see which avenues are possible for financial improvement and to take the initiative. The Agency will carefully review the laws and regulations associated with the administrative and financial institutions of the organisations, tasks, regulations and follow-up. I think we need that report when it's available, because it's something that's been quite at our level. I hope it doesn't take long until it's too late, that it can be one of the things we can take care of this year. I sure hope so. I think it's extremely important for the future and for the rest of the scattered areas. I'm going to thank the chairman of the branch office for the job and say it's important that this is the case with the committee. Although we have made no suggestion that this time, it is important that we be able to get along even if it is done and done. There could have been some suggestions on how to change. But that did not happen. A respectable president. I'm going to finish this and thank my partners for their cooperation in these and other matters. We had a long, good meeting, and more than one, and we went through this team for a team to try to figure out if we wanted to make some adjustments.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u306	Mr. President. Here's just one small question because we're talking about the final budget of the 2016 state account. Hv. A senator found a reason to point out that adjustments had not been made. I just want to ask you what. A member of Parliament: What is the scope for the changes in final budgets that are primarily to confirm the current financial account? There's a lot of room for what's happened. The budget to make changes?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u307	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. A financial committee has made room, such as why. A senator knows, in recent years. When we canceled our medical care, when we canceled the county, etc. Then it was the decision of the Committee. We decided not to do so now because it was a long time since it was, especially a long time ago, but to try to consider the reasons, as I was doing with the politicians. That was one of the things that came into our table, whether we should or not. I think there's always some room to be found when there's no such awesome numbers, but it can make a difference, as in this case, much more important. We just decided not to. I appreciate it so much that if we had passed over it, we would have found a way to do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u308	Mr. President. I just want to review it here, because I spent a long time on a budget committee, that I can't remember unless all of the committees were on the final budget, just because last money laws are to confirm state accounts. There were reasons to use bugfixes when we were going to a new arrangement that had to do with public financial law. That was a possibility, and we did it at the time. Happily, this committee has been able to agree on the final financial law, which, in turn, is in order to validate a financial account. We've had discussions, proposals, adjustments, and the whole process up until then. We are standing here in the spring of 2018, discussing the final budget for 2016. Once again a long time goes by, I feel too long, since the confirmation comes on the balance account from his appearance. I want to ask you why. Senator anyway. The budget has not done exactly what it is like to say, and it may be curious as to what plans it is to reroute this work.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u309	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. I'd like to start by saying about the work force that, of course, these are the last budget we're going to make in this way. This may have been one of the reasons why, such as why. A senator also mentioned that the past is so long, and we, of course, comment on it. This is one of the findings of the committee, as presented here in the Committee's opinion, the disadvantages to change something so far back as this is concerned. We've talked about reevaluating the procedure and rules about the end of the year's appointment in committees. We haven't done much over it. And as I traced, in my speech earlier, we need to figure out where we can intervene. I think it matters. We've been able to make an impression until now on the final budget. Today, only an announcement of a decision is made under the new laws on public financial matters. We've been talking about the transfer of power from council to executive, as many of us have had many words here, including the one here. Then it hurts so late. How, though, can we draw this closer? A public opinion simply said that there would likely be a government bill later than originally planned, unfortunately. But I sure hope this is a process that will get us closer in real time. We made a deal here, like what. A senator remembers, where we put down certain institutions so that no service limit would be required. Of course it was a specific operation, the tailcutting that took place, and something you don't want to be done, but come to the sheepfold, as has been said here, which works.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u310	Mr. President. The bill of this target of a water cycle is here on the move of the last final budget to come for the Generals. The ability to complete the financial affairs of a certain calendar year with the final financial law will be no more. We are moving toward a new era in the state, on the basis of government laws on public finances from 2015 that set up a new setting for him. Such cases will not be different from those of a short time ago. As noted in a panel of committees, reviews have criticized the extent of transport between year and year, both external costs and positive positions, indicating that it is not reasonable to automatically transfer a negative status between years if the expenditure is not concomitantly made. A financial committee has often accepted them as criticism. In view of the figures in these topics, it shows that during the years prior to the bank crash, the transfer of from year to year was up to 5% of the total resources of the year, but they significantly reduced until this bill moved sources except about 2% of the total financial resources of 2016. It is mentioned in the bill's report which work protocols have been used by the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs in connection with the provision of the annual budget. It should be noted that the end of the year is generally reduced by legal teams and contractual agreements. For example, the transferler of social security may be taken, since expenses may be largely legal, but financial or activities that depend on the responsibility of certain administrative organisations and can be controlled without any change in local law. However, a rule has been made that jobs, maintenance, and stock costs will vary from year to year. This is especially true from the taking of the laws mentioned earlier on public financial matters. The transport position at which most joints, of course, are targeted, should lead to improved strategy making as it cannot be avoided to react to aberrants at the end of the year. Mr. President. In accordance with his observational role, as here was thoroughly traced to the case of a layman, w. paritaprevir The Haraldur - looking son of Benediktsson, a financial committee, had some observations, and there were reasons to present himself in his committee's list of indications. I don't have to go over this on long terms, but I'd like to mention a few things about that relationship. One thing is that the committee crossed the end of the year and the proposal for fossilization. A search was made for accounts where abnormalities were severe. The conclusion is that there was an acceptable explanation for the judicial decision of the Committee that came from all kinds of matters. Another issue in this regard is a difference between individual subjects. It is stated, as it is put, in a number of cases, a difference in the position of the individual subjects at institutions, where more than one subject exists. Some subjects may even have very much change, while others may have a corresponding angle. I won't say anything. But the committee directs them, so that this is now the case, to advise in particular that such discrepancies are made and that, as it is said, they will be permanently corrected. It is particularly noted that this is evident in health institutions in the country where health care status is positive for more than 300 billion. K. But against a limp in the field of sickness. Similarly, the Commission believes that governments should better monitor the use of funds in the year they receive it. Other points, as discussed at the Committee, have been made to cover the rest of the funds. More than anything else, there are a lot of economic and innovation funds that are linked to the marine soil, which has proved to be a year's closing point. The Commission concluded that it is more consistent with planning and that budgets last far better than actual expenses involved in the fund. As mentioned above, the Commission specifically put in place the administrative organisations and should underline it with the obligatoryness that it is obligatory on the part of a financial committee to review plans and grounds for a reduction in the number of offices and it will be clear why the project was not carried out. Again, I remind you of the surveillance role of the budget board carried out on the budget. In the new world we now meet, with the new government laws - I still allow myself to call them new even though they are from 2015 - they are committed to parties. In particular, it should be noted that each minister should regularly monitor the financial situation of the so-called Member State in Part A which hears his topic and minister should be identified and addressed with risks and weaknesses in business. There's a lot of duty here for a minister. If there is a risk of spending beyond the budget, a minister should seek ways to -- that is the list: reduce the cost within the year, transfer of funds within the budget and use of reserves not to exceed the budget. The secretary is also obliged to submit a report to the secretary of finance on the comparison of physical expenses and financial resources for the lawsuits that he hears. This should be done quarterly, for it is specifically stated that this is done for every quarter of the year based on the provided state funds for the same period. If this situation exists that there is a significant variation, as it is said, between real cost and financial resources, and even if there is reason to believe that it should be done without delay, the secretary of finance will explain the reasons for these and more, the measures he has taken or intend to take to prevent any interference between financial spending and financial resources. The minister shall then inform the government and the General budget as often as there is a reason and no less than quarterly on the implementation of the budget and financial development of the state funds. Well, here we are, Mr. President, in the face of trouble. Share information protocols are set up for loss of control protocols. It includes the aim of the head of the Member States, as it is called, in Part A, the local minister should be informed without delay of any interference from the management programme. Their reasons and actions should be reported. Ministers are obliged to inform the director within 15 days about his position on the proposed response. If he does not agree with the proposals, he should at the same time appoint the director to respond in a more precise way to set goals. I will not be the source of this, but as you can see, things are in very clear and limited terms under official financial law. There's a few things important to be right here, Mr. President. Expenditures beyond annual budget shall be withdrawn from the current year's budget, and shall be observed. The responsible minister should promptly report to the secretary how he intends to ensure that the objective of the current budget should be respected. If financial rights have not been fully replaced at the end of the year, the ministerial servant may request that the lost legal rights be set aside for the next year in whole or in part, as it will be arranged to meet the expenses that have been delayed or presented with a clear, practical basis. It also shows that a minister is authorized to set rules to agree with the General Assembly budgeting Committee on budgeting as outlined earlier and how to proceed with budgetary schemes. Mr. President. I stress that those factors that do not subject to the decision - making authority of a minister are small guesses when you consider them. I also want to fulfill the responsibility of a minister according to the new organization that will follow. A minister is now required to look for any means to prevent costs from being greater than financial resources and to use any means at hand to prevent scurrying. From now on, the tilt continues to move to the next year. This should be handled, and it will no longer be possible to eliminate the collapse of the tail. I believe that in the way that this has been attributed and has been legalized, there has been increased discipline and trade in the government, which is positive for all parties, members of Congress, execution and citizens. So this is a big step towards progress, Mr. President. I want at the end of my case to make the subject subject, although we are here talking about the final budget for 2016, the current case, the relationship of the government with the government's laws on public finance; it is revealed in that the government intends to exploit money from the current general reserve at this time. In this regard, rather than expecting funds for these projects in financial or financial programmes, we will take money from the general budget for the road that is needed and urgent. The provision of money from the common reserve is strictly relative. These conditions are listed in paragraph 24. it's a government law. The reserve, the general, is intended to respond to temporary, unpredictable, inevitable expenses and cannot be handled in any other way under the public financial laws. The use of funds from this fund, bound to such strict conditions, and it is clearly stated in a report, Mr. President, that there is a narrow interpretation, so far out of the question. What is unpredictable about the bad ways of winter and frost? Don't you all know that, Mr. President? I'll tell you, this is a border, I'm going to say, in the abuse of Article 24. The law and the force, I will again allow myself to say, a dangerous example which, in fact, means that ministers feel free to take advantage of the funds. It's against the law. For this to be the case, it might be more clean to bring down the 24th floor. To go away, to the general reserve. It is designed to deal with situations attributed to the above principle, 24. g., so that the loss of this general reserve would be to an extreme level, but implementation, such as the one that has been described here and that is now upstairs, shows that the law does not reach its purpose when its contents are ignored, as this example is sadly a sign.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u311	A respectable president. It's gotta be said it's really money. Even if there's a stamp here and a confirmation of a government account and that's what it really is, it's a budget. Usually there's a lot of discussion about budget money, but somehow it doesn't happen about the final budget, it's behind, it's a little different. Still, these are actually extras when you think about it. The budget has been set up that is being provided for, and there will be conflict between it and the Constitution that nothing can be done unless there is a means to pay for it in financial or financial funds. There's a problem, so to speak. Whether these procedures are being adjusted according to the Constitution of budget management when the material is being adjusted according to expenses is stretchable. For example, what if a financial committee or a General says: "No, we're not going to give you a legal warrant for this. " What? So you can't go to these extra expenses now that you're working on with the last amount of funds? But could it be if the Allied said yes? When the decision was made to exceed authority, it was probably uncertain. There's a Schroedgers problem, and it's not known if the Allied will say yes or no. But out of experience and a certain pressure applied by the Council, it seems that it was customary to exceed authority. It is known, according to the past, that the Council is the one who stamps it if the anomaly can be explained, or as it was said here, that there was an adequate explanation for all anomalies. This expression, an acceptable explanation, may be all right, but these are not necessarily good explanations. There are two differences. It's the last budget in the old form. What is changing now is definitely for the better. It can be said that, as well as the like, that the swings we have seen in transfers and funding, what they always do with a lot of money from money to government bills, come from this tendency of the General Assembly to say after, after we have made the money available and spend it: All right, let's give you money or final money, instead of saying, "No, you're gonna have to do better, make better plans, and keep them in place for which we started and do better next year. It's exactly the arrangement we're getting into, we're getting out of this old process because it's clearly a problem and we're going to go on that process where we can go in minus and plus and the difference is moving between the ages and we need to figure out why it's in plus and minus, etc. Then there comes a time when I feel that funding is done a much more powerful budget because these points are no longer being taken as budgets and final budgets. It's got to be a lot more frequent. It is assumed in the law that much more is being taken, and the way ministers stay within the budget is being observed. However, I don't think the budget or the Ministry could handle it properly. They still do a little work on the old arrangement. Funding is very weak because at the moment, the Ministry is just reporting some weakness. It is assumed in the civil law that a minister should also recognize what to do in order to stay within the budget. Well, that's never happened in the first place. They just tell us about the weakness and even explain, "We're just gonna take care of this for a few extras, but it can't be done under the law. It is simply a lawbreaker if it fails to meet these very strict conditions. paritaprevir Ísleifsson Ísafasunsson mentioned temporary, unpredictable, and inevitable. When this happens, it is very strange that members of Congress say that public financial laws are somehow taking over the funds from members of Congress. I can totally understand that in a way that worked by the way the old law worked, it could be done entirely in the final budget, even now that it is now one and a half years later, which is naturally extremely important and exact control of what it is like to distribute and use it. This changes to the fact that the Council decides far more ahead and in a more subtle way, not as accurate, than according to government policy. This is an important point, that governments are asking for financial authority to enforce a certain course. As we are observing how expenses within the budget develop, we need to keep asking: Is spending money on something other than policy? Can this budget be explained by the goals of some financial policy? Thus, the budget will be transferred to this monitoring section by the government's premonition of what they will do, the goals they will achieve, and the financial resources they will need, and the General says: "Okay, but we have to watch that money is being spent in the right places. Not to come in afterwards, as we're now doing on the budget and just stamp it out and say, "Good, you're going over, and it's just in the budgets. Go ahead and go. Bye. Don't worry about your plans being so lame. We'll just stamp it again next time, too. I can't stress enough that we're leaving this old arrangement where the follow-up management of the government and the financiers here at the General Assembly are changing dramatically. But it is not likely that both Congress and the Ministry will start to behave differently. It's a long way from that default. It's so easy to do what it used to be. In reality, people are most likely to act just as they always have. This plays a little bit into a certain situation. When something goes wrong, you get criticism from the council, even no, but it hasn't been done, and yet it's not been done because we're a little out of business. Then I'm going to refer again to it as a matter of rest. paritaprevir Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Isleus mentioned earlier with the reserve and the use of it. Ministers come and say: "It all meets conditions, but common sense shows that costs are both temporary and unpredictable. They try to explain it, but it doesn't make sense. For example, it is a little difficult to understand that expenses are temporary in maintenance. Yes, it is taking funding from the reserves once and putting on maintenance measures, but maintaining itself is not temporary. That happens every year. It's a slightly worse winter this year, but it's a slightly better winter next year. It's just normal swings. That's exactly the swings that are meant to be in the budget. This year's work is only worse, and the Ministry explains that there's more to the minus because the winter was bad. It will be taken in the years ahead, and then it will show whether the swing is generally moving downhill, there will be a clear increase in funding for that group, or whether it is swinging up against or staying around zero. This is exactly a description of how the explanation temporarily does not apply to this class. However, a flood is not normal and predictable; there is a temporary operation if adjustment is needed thereafter. Floods do not occur in a highly predictable way. It is not necessarily possible to predict that a specific bridge will pass exactly that flood. It is very normal to have a temporary operation to correct after some such disaster. It is specifically stated that the reserve is for expenses caused by certain disasters. The new law and the one we're breaking up with is actually preventing government access to extra funds, i.e. At least easily. The decision and the budget are in financial policy, financial planning and financial law. There the council lets go. In fact, the Council has issued a government bill, as per government policy, and so on. If the council is to hold the budget, it must be kept under close supervision for the implementation of funding. If the council lets go when the government comes and says, "We're going to use this from the reserve," we're giving up the budget. First to say, "No, we gave up. " This is the arrangement that we are removing from the last of our financial laws right now. That's the way it was. Good and good - bye, it was assumed that we would get a little ahead of ourselves. Now we're stopping it. We have to figure this out so that we stop acting like the old arrangement. You can no longer get permission afterwards. There will be no way to use capitals outside government policies, i.e. In fact, between financial schemes and budgets, no new policy can be created. There must be waiting until the next financial or financial policies and financial programs. In the example of the distribution of reserves for increased transport repair, the only solution is to prioritize within that budget. That means fewer new projects, that's just the way it is. The issues that were at the bottom of our priorities go over to the next year. Laws simply do not assume that it can be shifted, not even by means of financial contributions. They have the same conditions as the reserves, and there's a reason. The reason is that what we are getting rid of is now the final financial law. This is why these swings make us always see much, much higher financial resources in finals than in budgets. There's a shortage of resources that will create this difference. That is why such narrow conditions are being put on both budgets and reserves. We can say: No, we are not going to follow it, we are just going to do what we did in the past. If so, it may be better to change the law so that we do not make new unwritten traditions and rules, at least in the text.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u312	Mr. President. I hereby recommend the Committee to conduct a bill to legalize the switch to the collection laws, from the Economic and Business Committee. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Skarphéðinsson's Home, from the Department of Professional Road and Development, and by Jón Gunnar Ásbjörnsson, from the Iceland Police Association. The committee received reviews of the case from the Department of Laws, the Neighbours and the SEC. The bill's report shows that it responds to comments in the opinion of the Allied agent, No. 8302/2014, which included dealing falsely with collects, No. 95/2008. In other words, the agent's comment was that the terms of the term had to be defined more accurately. 2 mg. Section 3. Implementation laws, to determine whether lawyers and lawyers owned by law would be permitted to collect without a fee, and, like 2 mgr, the National Legal Association of Iceland would actually conduct a check on law enforcement. Section 15. The law says so. These comments fail at paragraphs 1 and 4. to check the requirements for the collection permit in Article 4. The law, to say in the law that the deposit account is not his property and that, among other things, it is not suitable and that by law, there is a new article on the collection of materials. For a discussion of the matter, there were some discussions about whether the arrangements to monitor law - enforcement were in the hands of lawyers. The committee noted that in general interest interests are not being kept under the supervision of their own members. Nevertheless, the committee proposes that the bill be accepted unchanged. Ólafur Ísleifsson, an officer of the Committee, agrees with this. Brynjar Níelsson and Oddný G.. The tough Harðardóttir was absent from the case but signed, by the end of the year. warrant for 4 mg. 18th par. Coral regulations of regular committees. Under references to publications on May 8, 2018: Óli Björn Kárason, chairman, Þorsteinn Víglundsson, scholar, Braunr Níelsson's son, Bárístísdótttir Haraldsdóttir, Móln Góndnar Harðardóttir, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Sigmundur, Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson, and Þórunn the Egilsdóttir of Egnun.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u313	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a committee party with a bill-change proposal to legalize the financial law, No. 161/2002, with subsequent changes, for the Economic and Business Committee. The committee discussed the matter and received its appointment, as indicated in the Commission opinion, the financial and economic experts, the UNECE organizations and financial organizations. The bill suggests changes in financial law primarily aimed at the implementation of part of Directive 2014/59/ESB for restoration and submission of loan institutions and stock companies called the BRD. The currently implemented part of the directive is subject to a reimbursement programme, the timely intervention of the official and financial support within kit. It is planned to complete the implementation of the directive at the next legislation. In addition, the bill is introduced by the 2013/36/EU directives on the establishment and activities of financial companies and their precautionary monitoring, and the Regulation of the EU No. 575/2013, about the precautionary requirements for the work of loans and investment companies. They are expected to be recorded in the EEA contract by the end of this year. The bill on reform plans obliges some financial companies to plan for the planned response to problems successfully. The requirement for the content of the reform plan must be partially legal in addition to the granting of a Minister's further regulations in the Regulation. The FES shall determine whether a reimbursement plan is in accordance with the laws and regulations, whether the procedure under which it is likely to be effective, and if it is likely to be implemented rapidly, if necessary. In his review as well as at a meeting with the Committee, the Office of finance companies emphasized that loan agencies and stock companies would be given more time to make, and contributions to the first reimbursement programme, and they named a period of 12 months from the law's execution in that relationship. The Ministry's memo to the Committee agrees with the need to allow room for the first reform program to be implemented. The Ministry had consulted this point in which the three business banks, which are considered systematically important, have already turned in two ways of improving their plans, last December 2017. In view of the legal status of the bill at the present meeting, the UN is most likely to be the first systematic understanding of key financial organisations to reimburse in December 2018 and the first divorcement of other enterprises which will be due to a reimbursement programme according to a year later, or in December 2019. Out of the organization, it is best to return to the end of the year. Therefore, the Ministry does not feel that there is a need for a deadline for the first legal divorce, but it is necessary to leave an assessment of the timing of drop-offs with the company. The Commission agrees that there is no need to recite the deadline in the law. It is clear that this delay will be no less than 12 months from the implementation of the law for those enterprises which have not already begun preparatory work and returned to UNEP to a reimbursement programme. Seven. The bill consists of regulations allowing the Commission to take action (necessary intervention) when business violates the laws of the law or administration directives based on them or where there is a possibility that such a crime is imminent due to a worsening financial situation. Intermittent interventions include the requirement for financial companies to take action under reform, offer to shareholders or stockholders meetings, disintegration from executives or executives, and change business policy and organization. The directive suggests the cooperation of UNECE and Iceland's SEC, so that the UNEC should be informed if there is a situation where the application of timely intervention will be permitted and the Secret Bank should inform the Commission in case of worsening financial status in order to allow it to violate the law's requirements. Code 12. The bill deals with financial support within the kit. It stipulates a mother's partner, a daughter's partner, and other partners within the set up to negotiate financial support. The contract, which may require financial support in the form of loans, responsibilities, loans, or combinations of these loan forms, will be implemented if any contract member becomes in the position that the UN would be permitted to use timely intervention. The agreement on financial support is subject to the approval of the Commission and shall provide guidelines for financial support. In comments on 12. The bill's report shows that the law should not mean that a contract for financial support is essential for a partner to provide financial support for another partner. "E team 5. " The bill, which will be 82nd. e The law is discussing a simple reform program that the UN can authorize financial companies to set up specific criteria as outlined in the law. 3 mg. The article shows that a minister takes further note of the requirements for a simple reimbursement programme in the Regulation. The review of The Commission's comments to the Commission suggests that the conditions of the Regulation shall be discussed with reference. These measures will be based on EU Regulation, which is currently underlining, with reference to criteria that should be taken into consideration when assessing whether a financial enterprise should be authorized to submit a simple reform plan. However, this should always be based on the conditions laid down in the law. The Ministry's memo to the Committee agrees with this proposal in Article 4. The BRRD directive, which E- team 5. the bill introduces, using the English word הcri·riʹa, which is more likely to introduce as a reference. The committee agrees with the above views and suggests a 3rd - mg word change. E-Filter 5. the bill in accordance with this. The Ministry's memo to the Committee notes that there has been a failure to update references to legalization, along with a change in financial law by law No. 96/2016, including Change the location of interest options, as shown by page 86. The law. This is why the committee proposes a change in the bill to correct references at the 86th gr. It's a law that should refer to the 86th floor. a but not 84. gs a. In the 9th. The bill is submitted to the change to 107th par. The laws and the changes are based on the 2013/36/EU Directive on the establishment and activities of financial companies and their security surveillance. In the 9th Team. The bill is suggested for the 1st issue of 2 mg. 107th par. The law states that the SEC is monitoring the activities of a financial institution, a mixed holding society, and a mixed financial holding society established or operating on land. The 2nd stipulation of the Council of Economic Affairs also includes the operating of a financial holding society, mixed holding society, and mixed financial rights, the motherhood of such a partner, and their daughter mate, in other countries, including the United States. where there is activity of such a company in this country. The Ministry's memo to the Committee suggests that the word "also " will fall out of the text, as it is intended to narrow the realms of the Order, which should be independent of the rule laid down in force at the 1st issue. On the same occasion, the Ministry suggests that the term "Environment" be applied. when such a social activity takes place on the land, if it is unnecessary and at risk of the wrong interpretation of the Order. Under these views, the committee suggests, in the adjustment form of this committee, the appropriate adjustment. Besides, there are some technical modifications and I'm not going to be a trace here anymore. Ólafur Ísleifsson, an officer of the Committee, agrees with this opinion. It should be up to you to wonder. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson and Oddný G.. The tough Harðardóttir were absent from the case but signed according to clearance at 4 mg. 18th par. Coral regulations of regular committees. Under no circumstances do all members of the Economic and Business Committee, i.e. He's standing here, plus whisk. and the men of the assembly of Þorsteinn, the Gunnarsson of Sigmundur, the son of Braunus the Víglundsson of Níelsson, the Bryndís of Bordith, the daughter of Haraldsdóttir, the Helgi of Hren, the Davíð of Gunnarsson, the daughter of Oddný G.; the Harðardóttir of Hurf, the Gunnlaugsson of Þór, and the Egilsdóttir of Thorel.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u314	Mr. President. I now report to the Committee on Environment and Transport with a change in proposal. It's about the bill for the legislation on the alteration of various laws to conform to transport, communication, rural and rural programmes. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted Ragnhildur Hjaltadóttir Hjaltadóttir and Ólafur Kr.. Hjörleifsson of the Department of Transport and Department of Transport, Björn Óli Hauksson of Isavia, Jónas Snæbjörnsson, Hreinn Haraldsson and Stefán Erlendsson from Vega, Vigdís Häsler of the Icelandic Company's Union, Gunnar Þorgeirsson of the Sunnlenski Company's Association, as well as the committee discussed with Sæmundur Helgason from the Council of Hornfjordir over the phone. The committee received reviews from Isavia, the Union of Icelandic rural communities, the Conspiracies of the Sunnian Company, the Club of Hornfjords, and the Vegas. Then the Committee received a memo from the Department of Transport and Division. The bill suggests changes in law to coordinate and integrate planning in the transport and rural administration sectors, which are rural and regional, transport and communication. It is suggested that comparable plans be made on each of these areas to five and fifteen years of age, which will be reviewed every three years at least. The aim is to coordinate policies and planning with public financial legislation, No. 123/2015. Clearly, many plans for rural, rural, communications and transport are in place and for others in progress. Experience shows that current programmes have always been used without adequate integration and, in most cases, it is time to take up improved employment with the administrative organisation and the practicality of the programmes. A new and improved structure is based on improved consultations in full terms and on harmonisation of policy targets in four transport and rural areas. Changes in various laws involved in the affairs of rural governments, of the community, of the communications and transportation of the bill are minimized to the extent possible, subjecting mainly to the shape of the job response and to the harmonisation of the estimates, but not to the content or policy of the bill. At the same time, it is safe to make sure that there will be a consistent relationship between the changes made by the bill and the financial legislation. It also ensures that these changes do not impair local independence. The committee believes that with the bill, progress is taking place in the public planning program. The committee presented the view that what was referred to in Article 3 was unclear. the bill with the wording ▪ any transport agency and companies that depend on the Ministry. If so, it would be unnatural for Istavia ohf. should be directly involved in the transport plan, although it may be that the director of the company is seated as an audience officer. The committee has a legal right to the same wording found in Article 3. Section 3. Current Transport Programme legislation, No. 33/2008, and to date, it has not produced any misunderstanding or doubt as to whether Istavia belongs to that group. This will play an important role in the transport of the people as owner and driver of the Cheflavor airport, but an important part of the transport program is flying policies. Regarding the director of the transport strategy of Istavia, the Commission points out that the transport Council is not a administrative committee but the location of the directors of the transport organizations that prepare a minister for a transport plan and that it is important for flying transport. It was found that in the bill it was expected to agree with the national branch society in the preparation of rural planning and in developing a policy-making programme for the State's affairs and measures, but the role of such organizations was uncertain in the Icelandic Government. The importance of the European Union would then be critical, pointing out that there was no mention of the presence of the rural communities themselves. The Committee points out that the European Union of Iceland is a joint advocate of rural society. Ninety-eight. Civil Government, No. 138/2011, as such, ensures that local society's views are expressed on the work of committees. In view of the lack of clear, speculative and legal role in the affairs of rural society, the Commission feels that a national segregation will be eliminated from Article 9 and chapter 10. The bill. Instead of being called upon to consult with rural society, it is reasonable to agree on the cooperation of the rural community in national parts of the country. Commenting on the increase in the number of specific representatives of the transport and telecommunications board of directors was being made to two others, and two representatives were expected to be represented in the new Regional Council. Critically, this increase had not been clearly supported in a report. It was stated that the purpose of the changes was to achieve the aim of developing the development of a transport program, a communication plan, and a strategy based on the priorities of each minister and the financial frame he has set. The Commission has a right to address plans as a minister to the General for Policy Strategy in the relevant seminary and right to make preparations of them are made clear to the Minister's perspective. The bill on the U.S. policy strategy on the affairs of rural society is new. It is not expected that specific advice will be provided to the minister for the strategy in contrast with the development plan, transport plan and communication plan, but will become secondary to the Ministry, but will be consulted with certain parties, including A Union of Icelandic rural society. At a meeting of the Committee and in their review, the Union agreed on page 10. c., however, it was necessary to set a closer management directive on the design of such programmes to fix up the work process and to increase the awareness of the implementation of the programmes. The committee agrees with that viewpoint and suggests that it is 10. The bill adds to the requirement that the Minister should set up a Regulation with additional regulations on the preparation of policy-making and action programmes in the affairs of rural society. In accordance with current legislation, the payment of the State Fund on individual projects shall be reviewed every two years in a review of transport programmes. The bill suggests that this deadline will be removed. It was noted that there may be significant changes in the environment that call for regular review of the government funds and that significant changes may be necessary in the area of transport. For this reason it was noted that it would be necessary to review payment to a minimum every three years according to the rules of the bill on the review of transport programmes. The committee agrees with that viewpoint and suggests a change in word for it. Mr. President. According to the above, the Commission suggests that the bill will be approved by a threesome change: 1st Instead of the word'stablishment of a rural partner' to the 2nd issue of Article 2. c-joints 9. g. and 1st Subject 2. 10th par. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on. 2. After 2th paragraph. 10th par. If a new paragraph is spoken, let it be said: The Secretary of Regulation shall set up additional regulations on the preparation of the policy-making programme and the implementation of the programme, cr. 4 and 5 mg. 3. 1 1. put it this way: Instead of the word ◯tttat to 3 mgr. 25. The law comes, to a minimum of three. Hv. The members of Jón Gunnarsson and Hanna Katrín Friðriksson were absent from the hearing. Hv. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson met with the committee as an officer in the hearing, and he agrees with this view. Under this opinion, literature, as well as the speaker, mine, hm. Councilmen Bergþór Ólason, Helga Helgadóttir Helgaódóttir, Karl Hjaltason undoma Sævarsdóttir Saevarsdótir, Resa Brynjólfsdóttir Bryfjordir, and Vilhjálmur of Árnason.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u315	Mr. President. I hereby recommend the Commission's Commission and Commission's Commission's committee's proposal for a resolution in the decision to make a resolution to the Congress of the Code for the Generals. The committee has discussed the matter and has brought good visitors to their home. The Parliament's decision to change the Council's decision on the Code for the Generals, with the aim of making general efforts to create a healthy environment within the council, as well as throughout the community, where they are doing their work. The objective is also to promote a safe and healthy environment for members of the Parliament, members of the Parliament, and guests. The changes include the response of members of Congress to the open discussion that has taken place in Icelandic society, including political ones, on sexual abuse and harassment. The committee discussed their meetings on several opinions, including those of the Watch Tower Society. The principles of the principle against the deputy council and when council members should study the rules of ethics and sign a declaration there. According to 2 mg. Section 5. The code of ethics is decreed that at the beginning of their council, the Generals should hand the President of Allallis a signed declaration that they have studied the code of ethics and that the same is true of those who have served for four weeks continuously. Council members have been introduced that at the first meeting of the General Assembly after the election, the code of ethics on the table of senators and the form for a declaration they can sign and deliver to the office to confirm that they have studied the rules. The committee's meetings discussed whether it was reasonable for members of the Parliament to receive the code of ethics and the declaration immediately after the election and the release of a district convention and that it was the same as for vice - council members from the time they took their place. The committee noted that in the Code, there is a prerequisite for the role given to elected representatives. They should be general and guidance for their requirements, from an elected date so that the rules are presented immediately after election so that they can submit a signed declaration as soon as possible after election. Furthermore, the committee believes that the same argument applies to those in the Sanhedrin, stating that it will be an unreachable duty to all who take place at the General Assembly that they learn the rules of ethics as soon as they take up and sign a declaration there at their first meeting. Hence, the commission suggests a change in the synoptic arrangement. The committee noted that ethics should be a living document, taking into account the changes that will develop in society in the light of this issue. The committee believes that in order to achieve this, it is necessary to increase the exhibit of the ethical principles and access to them on the Generals web. It is also necessary to regularly discuss the rules of ethics among the general members of the council, e.g. with seminars and seminars. The Commission also stated that by ethics, there is increasing transparency in the work of the Generals, their role and responsibilities to the public, which may result in deepening knowledge of the role of the Generals, as well as increasing the confidence and confidence of the public at the General Assembly. The committee suggests that the synopsis proposal will be accepted with the following modification: After 1.mg. a new letter has arrived, as follows: The words of the four consecutive weeks to the 2nd proverb 2 mg. Section 5. The Code goes away. In payment of this case from the Committee, the Linika Anna Sævarsdóttir and Jón Þór Ólafsson were absent, while writing under authority at 4 mg. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Under this view, the writer of this committee, the one mentioned here, Brimes Níelsson, Valdimarsson Pádímsson, Kolbeinn Otttar's Óttarsson Proppé, Óli Björn Kárason Sæmundsson, and Þorsteinn Sömundsson, and Thor Þórunn, the Egilsdóttir of Eliil, as well as the daughter of Líneik Sævarsdóttir Savar, and Jón Þór Ólafsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u316	A respectable president. Thank you so much for this case and this committee opinion here. I think it's very important that we make more of this, from Congress regulations. It is important that members of Parliament come to negotiate and accept the code of ethics they put on themselves, not merely that they accept the code that someone else wrote and signed. It takes a process when new members come to evaluate and assess whether something has changed, whether the situation has changed, since no one should sign a moral code that they feel is beyond their reach. It would, in fact, be as much a violation of moral principles as possible. It is totally against the purpose of ethics to sign down on the rules you do not intend to follow. Moral standards should be determined by those who sign the ethical code on what they trust to do and follow. That's why, after the #methoo revolution, this addition is so important. It is vital that these regulations be part of the future discussion of the ethics of the Parliament. We must never forget that these are things that, as #methoo showed, are very common. They are even more common than stories show. It's known never to get all the stories on the surface. I haven't finished all my stories about bullying, definitely never will, but I can say something, but never all of them. It's nothing different. In a larger context, we have been in certain discussions about the ethics of the council, e.g. On confidentiality, i.e. Controversy that has been discussed in the past few weeks is a trust break in the committee. During that discussion, I found something very interesting. Somehow it looked like you couldn't account for anything that happened within the committees. It could not be said that dystocia was within the committee, and it could not be said that opposition was a matter within the committee. I think it's completely wrong not to report such activities within the committees. Because it can also be used as a protective shield for the use of a protective shield, or, in fact, a certain kind of violence. The secret host protects those who resort to such violence. There was an example at the end of the last term in a government committee where the city councilman was reported to have a degenerative disease. When it was reported, it was said that there was a violation of confidence within the committee. No, for the accusation itself was not entitled to professional activity within the committee. It was a personal attack. We also have such responsibility within the committees, even though we are not to quote people directly, etc., not to use the exact scene as a scene of assault on other members of the council or other city council, councilman or city council or whatever they are and therefore bear witness that we cannot reveal the violence of confidentiality. We have to understand our confidentiality. We must understand that we represent the public. It's like everybody's sitting on our shoulders trying to look over, but they can't quite see, maybe see a river. We must be able to explain to the people how the work is done here at the General Assembly and also what is behind closed doors. Otherwise, we must help those who are able to use violence and hide behind their ability to say and do whatever they want to do to threaten to be disloyal if what is happening is reported. This only plays into a query I had here the other day, about these unregistered rules, or would have rather said. It's not obvious at all, it's not obvious at all. Moral rules are not necessarily obvious. It is to be extensive. They can be misunderstood in one case or another, absolutely. So we need this discussion at all times. We need to understand and take it with an open mind and with open eyes, new circumstances, and learn. That is really what matters. You see, we senators are under the Constitution of conviction. It is our only skill, in fact, that we act according to our convictions. I don't see anything protesting that people's convictions and conscience can be shared. In fact, we are in a work that conviction moves us, and our conscience moves us to make decisions based on our conscience in matters that are open to us. There's no requirement that we be experts in everything, we don't have to be lawyers, we don't have to be writers, we don't have to be computerists or maths or whatever it is. All we need to do is make a personal decision based on our conscience, our conviction. These are the requirements. This means that we need the opinion of experts, public opinion, opinion of outsiders who present their vision and expertise in the issues established by the government or by any other government. We make a decision based on our best conscience on what reasoning is good because we are working for the nation - perhaps not all of us, perhaps their conscience or their convictions, that may well be. However, the principle of morality is key to this, and we say what our conscience is.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u317	A respectable president. I'd like to come into the corner of your head for a second. paritaprevir And the son of Björn, the Leví of Gunnarsson, concerning the truth, which was spoken unto him in his speech. The senator suggested that the religion could be used as a front for work on committees or for a committee or, as he put it, at the end of the year. I don't quite understand what the Senator is doing with it. But I myself believe confidentiality is generally very important at work, not just for members of Congress, but for many jobs, and it is rather difficult to see that if there is a word, religion can be a bit of a faithful one. The work that humans are doing or not is either confidential. With regard to the committee's committee, it's at least my understanding of the value of confidentiality at the council hearings. Men will likely be able to talk about their own position and their own words at committee meetings, but I feel that they can do much more than that. In this regard, I would like to ask the senator: " Does the senator believe that confidentiality in committee work can never help, that he can never be useful in committee work? On the other hand, is there any question as to whether he believes that confidentiality can be of any value but not entirely in committee work?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u318	A respectable president. That's a very good question. It is important to realize that it is not merely confidential or not; it is a steady distribution of confidentiality. Hv. A senator says he's a villain. I am generally able to refer to it for what it can be used for. I'm not referring to any particular incidents or anything like that. I used an example, official, of a city councilman who was said to have a degenerative disease. I find that clearly an example of how to avoid using confidentiality to cover up such conduct on a committee. There is an incident that does not belong to the committee anyway, the person is breaking down by attacking the individual in such a way. This hopefully explains that there is no total confidentiality or complete confidentiality. I hope we made it clear. Certainly, I can interpret my own views and feelings and experiences of the commission work. I think it's my experience when I describe that I have faced opposition to committee work in a particular case, that's my experience. People may disagree, so is everything. Then we'll just go to explaining why I'm having a little resistance and why the person who might have been on the other side of the board or on the other side of the audience feels that it wasn't. It's just a healthy discussion that we can have.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u319	Mr. President. Yes, it may not be quite simple, as the senator enters. I can see that there are examples in which people have completely unacceptable behavior and difficult actions but that such things are to be searched out. Such activities may, at least in some cases, therefore, have been a premeditated or aggressive case that if a person commits a crime, he can hide behind the confidence. I don't think that's what it's all about. To me, this is about the fact that the committees can have honorable discussions with one another on the subject, tore a point of view, and even to look at one's mind aloud, without being subject to the interpretation, or even to the deportation outside the conference room as an attitude, resistance, or something like that. As soon as we're talking about it from the moment someone has experienced opposition or something like that, the next question will automatically come from who, by whose side, who said it, who had resistance, etc.? In effect, the dancing allows them to continue, and they are designed to be both themselves and possibly others with whom they are working almost to react, and they may even be at risk of breaking down their trust by doing so.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u320	A respectable president. That is why it is not a rule or a rule against quoting people directly because it may be easy to take such things out of context. As an example, I have previously used the description that a certain list of indolences was being passed on to a financial committee. I can describe it in a way that when I asked for the relevant data, it was repeatedly tried to direct that request another request. Indigestion accurately describes the process, there is nothing wrong with it. It may well be that someone else understands it or experiences it differently, but I don't think it's unusual that I explain how I experienced it. If I feel that the word dysgeusia is an accurate word to describe how the committee works, I don't think that there is any unusual discussion about the activities of the council. We have a special part of the meeting program, where we need to be able to comment on what is going on in the committees. But trust is definitely appropriate. We need to respect the fact that there is often some imaginative work going on. Ideas are being worked with indiscriminate suggestions and ideas that are indiscriminate. Perhaps they catch someone and work better, and older ideas become superseded. It is then relatively unfair to refer to the older ideas as the individual's opinion. I'm sure there's nothing in it. All I really expect is that we can try to explain our experiences in the logical way that I was trying to compromise. I think that's an accurate description of the process. I don't think there's an inaccurate description of what happened on my side. So trust is definitely something that is not cut and cut. We need to be able to have a good conversation about it and be able to communicate first in general, so that as time goes on, we may be selective.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u321	A respectable president. I'm here at the bill for the review of an organ resection, no. 16/1991 (to be agreed). The bill appeared first at the Council of 145th, and was submitted again to the 146th and 147th legislature, but was not granted. That's what's left over. In current organ resection laws, No. 16/1991 is based on the fact that organs or organic matter will not be removed from a deceased person's body unless its consent or its immediate problem is established. Thus, the law now means no, i.e. that the deceased have not approved the removal of an organ or organic material unless otherwise indicated. The case has been treated by the committee, and it has discussed the matter and has been contacted by various sources of information and visitors. The bill is suggested in 2 g. the treatment of organ resections is required by a so-called non-species agreement in the removal of organs or organic substances from the body of a deceased person rather than by a process of denial. In other words, the change assumes that the deceased was acceptable to the removal of an organ or organic substance, unless there is reason for the intention of another. It is reasonable to assume that people want to bring fellow humans into need by giving rather than the dead, organs and organics to their bodies. The reviewer declares a tremendous support to the bill. However, several sources criticize 2 mg. 1st par. the law that no organ or organic material can be removed from the body of a deceased person will violate it by the nearest lawyer of the deceased. Instruct the teacher that it is a matter of conflicting with the human rights of individuals to control their own body. However, at a meeting of the management committee, it was reported that in most cases the willingness of those who have died is becoming very difficult to go against their wishes. As a result, the committee does not feel the need to remove the law. In most cases, the procedure is in accordance with this. Children's agent emphasizes the need for rules on how health care professionals should handle these matters, especially in dealing with caregivers and information sources to those in whom the ultimatum of parents or guardians is respected. The committee agrees with these statements by an agent and points to the surgeon's office that such rules are being made. The commission then noted that according to the bill, only an organ or organic material could be taken out of the body of a deceased person if he had the authority. The need for informers to comply with the essential organization of children is not to be excluded. The committee agrees with these comments and does not consider it fatal to forbid organ transfusion of illegal individuals in all cases. So the committee suggests that a person must have been self - controlled at death and should be disfellowshipped. A respectable president. In view of the above, the Committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following modification: At 1 mg, the words were self - righteous and were to be self - righteous. 1st par. ... goout. Upon the release of the bill from the committee, Vilhjálmur Árnason was absent, but literature was considered to be in accordance with authority at 4 mg. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson writes in advance. Under the opinion of all the committees, Halldóra Mogensen, chairman of Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristoff, Ingi In Jónsson, Árnadóttir Kolbrún, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Brjánsson, Guðnsson, Kristinsson Insson, Vilmiramur Árnason and Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, in advance.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u322	Mr. President. At the beginning of my speech, I want to say that I support the bill wholeheartedly, i.e. the good mind that is behind it and the conclusion that hopefully this law will bring, i.e. that there is an increase in organ transplants and that Iceland can become more important than its receivers and not always expect organs to come from another source. It is important in this context because the vast majority of the organs used for organ donors for Iceland are elsewhere, and as noted by the managers and members of the Committee are offered in organs to organ donors, not just in Iceland, but on a global level, far too small. So the goal of the bill is very positive. What my husband had promised, however, is that I would have thought, as if I could actually do about it. .., be flat in some way trying to make sure that you gain informed consent to a greater extent than now and then gain informed consent before it usually reaches the terrifying events that will result in the availability of organs. This can be done in various ways. In the United States, this could be done by inviting those applying for a permanent driver's license to sign a declaration in due course whether they would like to be donors. However, that would not necessarily take away the subject of this bill. We could still keep it to the point that it was meant to consent, but we would avoid such things, at least someone, the challenges that often arise when such conversations occur, often under extremely difficult and challenging circumstances, in which people face the prospect of losing a loved one. This would help a great deal, then, that in many cases the real will of a dying person would not really have to ask a question. This could be done in the case of a permanent car test because in Iceland no one will be tested permanently until he has gained his own skills, i.e. At 18 years of age, and that's why we'd be able to escape the problem presented in the Committee on Self - Control. The shocking fact is that in modern society, accidents are really the most common reason for unexpected organ growth. There's probably the biggest car accident in line. Therefore, it would be to a certain preemptive value to get those who receive a permanent license to sign such a statement, or not, or at least offer it. Some of our neighbors and, for example, ours. In the United States, many countries have been successful in doing this, making sure that the production of organs, at least from accidents, will be useful. At the sad end, having been in that situation and seeing the anguish of the people who are going through at such times, is just giving organs and knowing that the deceased wanted to give an organ a certain light in the dark for dealing with difficult moments. Mr. President, I'll let this work to explain my warning, but I still declare the full support of the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u323	V.E.G. President. We'll talk to the 2nd. bill to correct the modification of organ resection, No. 16/1991 on the intended consent. The first transporter for this matter is why. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, and I'm with a importer on it. Hv. A senator and head of the case, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristoffdóttir, went over the committee's opinion. The welfare committee. In the first paragraph of an opinion, the matter is very well-denied. It shows its purpose and purpose of the changes proposed to the law on organ resection. I'm going to get here at the beginning of a speech, a respectable president, to repeat it, by Mr. President's permission: The bill is suggested in Article 2. organ resection, No. 16/1991 is required for the so-called agreed agreement to remove organs or organic substances from the body of a deceased person rather than to the intended denial of their own. In other words, the change assumes that the deceased was acceptable to the removal of an organ or organic substance, unless there is reason for the intention of another. It is reasonable to assume that people want to come to the aid of a neighbor by giving rather than the dead, an organ and organic material. According to one opinion, the speakers generally were positive for the subject of the bill and the changes proposed in the bill for consent, as well as for the particular support. The 13 reviews on the bill described that support, I think I can say. 2 mg. 1st par. The bill reads, with President's permission: However, only an organ or organic material derived from the body of a deceased person should be used in the medical treatment of another person will the closest person in the dead resist it. The final paragraph of this article will discuss this. It suggests that the law conflicts with the human right of a person's own body. For example, the surgeon in his review makes a comment to this paragraph, saying, by permission of the president: ▪ Although it is important to consult our immediate caregivers at all times, when a public declaration of willingness to give an organ at death does not work against the will of the deceased. With the law, it should be a priority to ensure that the will of the deceased is done. The Commission suggests that there will be a change in the terms of the entrance of the immediate problem so that their approach to organ transfusion will be limited to an event where the will of the deceased is unknown. I think it's obvious. A welfare committee has worked very well with this indication and supports the views presented. The head of the committee went over and mentioned in the interview where reference is made that, in most cases, it is very difficult to go against the wishes and wishes of the deceased. At the same time, it tells us how sensitive such moments and treatment are. The Commission estimates that there is no need to remove the directive, since in most cases this procedure is being carried out. That's what I'm supporting, Mr. Honorable President. Furthermore, this decision related to, I agree with the Commission's opinion where it is pointed out and prescribed the child's emissary to establish a procedure for the administration of health care professionals to these matters and to deal specifically with the caregivers and information given to them in which the ultimate authority of parents or guardians is respected and directed directly to the surgeon for such rules. It is a very important part of the process. As noted in the title of the Children's Agent, as well as the emphasis often expressed on the subject, that education and information are important to all the public, including children, on the importance of donors, their nature, and their conduct, as stated in the information given by an agent of children. This is also related to the conclusion of Iceland's National Institute of Moralology, which says, on permission of the president: ▪ The main focus on making a decision to change the current arrangement is the practical application of both laws and practices in medical institutions, especially those involved in dealing with caregivers and the way they feel about the decision. Section 1. The bill is said, by permission of the President: A person's body can be expelled from an organ or organic material to use in the medical treatment of another person if the deceased was self - sacrificing and did not oppose it; otherwise, it is not thought to violate his will. I'll back up the adjustment plan. The General Commission listed here in the opinion that responds to the comments made by a speaker who says that the article remains unchanged, as I went over here, only organs or organics can be exonerated from the body of a deceased person if he was automatically selected. That will rule out the vital organization of children. Does the committee think that, as it puts it, it does not prerecognize an organ transplant in any case and therefore suggest a change in the terms of self - destruction, and ◯ be removed? I support it. The bill has been presented three times before in this picture but not granted. The previous council has provided a synonym, referred to and traced to Article II by the bill. It also states, and I believe it is right to point out here, that at the 144th legislation, the health - care minister received a report that included a report. how to increase the number of organ donors from dead people in Iceland. This was made clear in the matter of why. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson's son that this was not enough for organ donors, but this step, of course, is the primary goal of increasing the number of donors. The report shows that further measures than intended to be agreed on by itself are required and that there is experience in other nations with information and education at all levels, the key and regular training of healthcare providers for organ transplantation. This point is also very well presented in the review of Moral Cultures on the bill, which states that in order to improve the adjustment of the bill into the proliferation of donor donors, it is important to emphasize the fact that a thorough presentation of organ donors is intended for the population and the effect of increased organ donors on the survival and health of the transplant recipient. It also emphasizes that the right of those who do not wish to donate organs, that training by health care professionals, and, as already indicated, will be ensured by the National Competent Authority's website on organ donors to the centre of information. However, the case has given rise to the discussion and to the Council. In support of the case, in 2014 of the 10 issue of the medical journal, the results of a survey made by the Medical Association of Capacent are presented. It presents a clear support for organ donors with the intention of consent, as is suggested here. About 80% of the participants are in favour of legislation that assumes a consent. The same results from foreign studies can be found in the review of the case, approximately 80%. Then, according to reviews, it can be said on the subject of the proposed major change to pass the expected consent, that the view of the case became more positive. I believe their reading accounts to judge that this is the case. You can tell that in all your reviews. It's a review of the Land Hospital. until, by permission of the President: In Iceland it is time to take the same step as most other European countries have made and organ donors legislation is expected to agree. Recently, Britain and the Dutch changed their legislation in this regard. It is my faith, a respectable president, that we follow this and follow the example of many other nations and accept this matter here at this council. Before I do what I say, I'm going to refer to more comments and a positive view of the matter. The Bishop's review even comes. so that there is a moral issue. In his review, the bishop points to the matter's view that the bill is fundamental to the view that it is reasonable to assume that people prefer to bring neighbors into need by providing organs and organic materials for them. In his review, the bishop agrees with the view that the law will be turned into a consent, since the nearest relative of the deceased will not violate the gift of the organ. One very interesting comment is from economists, to establish a different perspective on this subject. Based on his review in an article by Eric J. Johnson and Daniel G. Goldstein from 2003, researchers with reports that a large proportion of individuals seem to be in favor of administering their organs after death. The results of their attempts found that when individuals were required to respond to organ transplants, the results became a positive response in 79% of the cases, which is almost the same as from the Icelandic study that Capacent did for the Medical Association that I referred to earlier. Then students in legal economics turned in reviews. The review shows that from economic viewpoints, the matter is very clear and may include: see changes in other European countries that provide even greater evidence for the change. It shows that much more than a proportion of individuals want to be organ donors, but a small part of them is due to registering as an organ donor at the surgeon's surgeon's office because when it is intended to refuse as the law is today, it is worth writing as an organ donor simply much less than the cost of registering. This is the economic perspective. At the beginning of 2017, an interesting article on this subject was published by Gunnlaugur Pálsson's Gunnladur, a Birgir Jakobsson, a physician, and a former surgeon, and now an assistant of the highest rank. Minister of health, wrote. The headline was: Laws on organ donors: Is the French way reasonable for the Icelanders? The French had laws based on consent, but they changed their laws in a way that all subjects were automatically donors at death had not previously expressed themselves contrary by a written declaration. The opening point in this article is that there is a reason for legislation to be changed on this land to agree as soon as it is important to protect the right of all individuals for their own good. It also points to international experience of taking the law into the intended agreement, it has the Finnar done, it has been done by the Norwegians, as well as by Sweden and more of the Europeans. In addition, this fine article shows that the incidence of organ donors is notably higher in countries where laws involve intended approval. The experience of such legislation is positive. In fact, there have been many ways to increase the number of donors, and experience has proved to be the best effort ever made, as I referred to here in combination with these laws, i.e. change to intended consent. I welcome the positive comments that come into play and I want to thank you. well-being committee for a very serious committee opinion. This takes into account the basic issues involved. I support the adjustment presented here, and I studied my talk. It is my hope, most respected president, that we will finally take this step and change the law to that being as suggested in the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u324	A respectable president. I'd like to, in a few words, to use this opportunity, to discuss a little about this bill, about the changes in the law of organ resection, or for approval as we call it. This change is the result of the 1991 law in view of the experience we have received from the law. It is now emphasized that there is a premeditated consent, rather than the fact that there is a refusal and that the person may be opposed or has not taken sides with this and needs to seek the attention of his immediate family members. Hv. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson did very well with the circumstances in which this opportunity for organ transplantation or organ resection is needed. It is a difficult time to deal with, since it is often the case with young ones in the prime of life that falls away under difficult circumstances. This would, of course, be acceptable when and if the deceased has not expressed itself against organ resection. For many years we have been discussing this in the community and have encouraged individuals to decide whether they would be able to give in to their organs if necessary. This has been possible both in writing and in later times, as noted at the beginning of the year. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, electronically It has a rich sound among the people. This was confirmed in a study conducted by the medical journal, as noted at the end of the year. Senator. That's where the national will lies, I think. Many words can be said about this. I think it's a big improvement. A pilot, a w. paritaprevir Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, accompanied by this committee from a pile, the Committee of the Health Committee, and did so with great respect. But I stopped, that I must admit, and was a little thoughtful over this paragraph of the 2nd. ... withauthority of the President's permission: However, only an organ or organic material derived from the body of a deceased person should be used in the medical treatment of another person will the closest person in the dead resist it. I believe that the red thread in this law is just that we are protecting or respecting the individual's self - determination rights, that he controls his body, and that he will determine what to do with it if anything is useful. It also states that a number of reporters speculated about this. This was discussed in the committee, and after that discussion, I became convinced that there was no reason to be on notice. We were assured that, in most cases, the willingness of a person to accept it was very rare that it was not readily solved and that there were some very special reasons for doing so. I had no prior notice, and I signed this with my fine members who worked well. There was a great convergence with the Committee on this matter and a frank discussion. We believe this law is a great improvement. Like what? paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson mentioned this, perhaps to a greater degree, may become hosts in this field than we have accepted to some extent from the surrounding nations. I'm not gonna have any more of those words. I'm glad the bill has come here for discussion, and I hope there'll be a law at this council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u325	V.E.G. President. We will discuss a bill to correct the change in organ resection laws, or a term with a new proposal. I'd like to thank a member of the Committee's Councillor, please. paritaprevir Thekins of the Lord's Halla, the Signý's Kristjánsdóttir, very much for the fine passage and for those who have spoken here. This matter has been thoroughly reviewed and has been established for the third time before the council and has been well discussed. In fact, it may have been growing up here this time for the time when it has happened to the council. And that's good. As I would like to thank the Committee for a detailed and good job and a clear presentation. As you read this, you will find that everyone has shown a positive attitude, and that is good. We have certainly been submers of other nations in this regard, for passing out a planned denial and going to the desired consent must all change the approach to these matters. We know that when it comes to using an organ or something from a deceased person's body, we are in situations that are sensitive and difficult and that cannot really be determined to make difficult decisions at such times. I think this change in autonomy, that it's taken out, is a very important part of the bill. True, when it comes to giving, children and young people are also important. Increasing education and conversation and information must be good, that it follows this. So I can say anything. paritaprevir Of this is Ólafur Þór, the son of Gunnarsson. I think it might be a good thing if we let it go with, information and even some effort to sign up as donors. True, we have had the opportunity to do so, but that is something that will stop us from doing it or that will do it. By having it recorded, we may be making difficult decisions from those who are sensitive at times whom they choose or who can choose to respect the decision of the deceased. Then I think it's also very positive that there is a simple procedure for the attention of health care professionals in these matters, as mentioned in the Committee, especially in dealing with the caregivers and information given to them. I think that would really improve the case, because all of this leads to human relationships in sensitive moments, and people need training and enlightenment and guidance in these topics like most other things. If this is a law I really hope for, then we are taking steps that most other nations and most of the nations of Europe have taken. I think it's time we did the same thing. I hope we can handle this situation here at this council. Once again, I want to thank the Committee for a job well done, a good review, and a clear presentation in this important matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u326	A respectable president. In a few words, I'd like to enter this bill to correct the modification of organ resection. As stated in the opinion of the National Institute of Moralology, U.S.A., by permission of a president: In the vast majority of cases, organ transplants serve an important moral purpose: to save life and to improve the health of those whom the organs receive. It is a matter of righteousness to give people a reasonable opportunity in life and love to save people's lives in distress. In civilized society, therefore, it is reasonable to assume that the person wants to come to his neighbor's aid in need rather than that he rejects it. I think these words put on paper by the National Institute of Moral Science in their comment to this bill are quite helpful in what I believe to be the general sense of these matters. I think, in all its basics, the Icelanders feel that they should do something good in life and when it ends, regardless of what it should be, they want to do their last share. There is one aspect of the subject that I would like to introduce to you. It comes from a surgeon's comment that points out as a comment to the wording of the bill by permission of the president: ▪ Although it is important to always consult with our immediate caregivers, when it is public declaration of willingness to give an organ at death, it does not work against the will of the deceased. This is to be taken into account that the bill assumes that protesting the immediate person, so to speak, will make a point when the expressed position of the deceased or possible organ donors is given to the donor. I think that, basically, this is a big step in progress. We're supposed to take that step. Two. The bill shows that the law is valid on January 1, 2019. I think it's important, as it says, that the Ministry of Health is doing quite well with the presentation. There's a lot to think about, and I think that even though written donors have grown a lot over the past few years, we should look for ways to look at, as indicated by at least One of the narratives, where either the tax report or e.g. When individuals take a driving test, they are simply enabled to register for approved organ transplants. I want to put that point in here for later use. I hope this bill that is now being moved here for the third time will be approved and the changes will be implemented. They're a great improvement. It is a very positive moral and a great deal of justice, for it is lacking not only in Iceland but in all the countries where we work on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-31-65.u327	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct the change in rural government law, No. 138/2011, with subsequent changes. The bill covers the extension of a provisional law on the source of electronic elections and the preparation of electronic elections. The bill is submitted by an environment and transport committee supported by an officer on the committee. With the bill, there is the time of provision for temporary V in rural law, No. 138/2011, extended to the next five years, while unchanged the law had disappeared from May 31, 2018. The directive states that a minister, in order to support the implementation of democracies in rural areas, may, at the request of the local government, authorize that inhabitants vote on the basis of the X. section of rural law be presented electronically only and that the vote by local elections will be electronic. The source was added to local government law by law No. 28/2013, but the purpose of the law included to promote an electronic democracies and democracies of the population. The Committee received a letter from the National Association of Iceland that reports that the local community of the European Union on May 14, 2018, requested that transport and rural administration be granted an electronic regional vote for a change in the central and shared community of Selephos, according to the results of the country's signing of citizens. The need to react and extend the proposed legislation to at least for the next five years so that it can be used to further the development of electronic consultations and democracies in both the management and decision-making of rural and national sectors. The Committee agrees with the European Union's opinion of rural society and suggests that the law of the law will be extended for about five years. According to this, I suggest that the case be passed through 2nd.
