ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-17-21.u1	On October 16th, at a conference of 156th, the children's emissary bill referred to the General and Education Committee. However, the matter was to be addressed to a welfare committee, and it has been corrected.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-17-21.u2	Mr. President. Iceland and I live in a economy of instability. There's a lot of insurance set up to deal with 60% of inflation. She's still at people 40 years later in 3% of inflation. There's one of the world's largest interest here, three times higher than that. In the Faeroe Islands. In the special environment that politicians constantly promise to fix, and nothing happens, they are fortunate as a minimum debt. Those who were at least in debt in the collapse were those who suffered minor setbacks. The wealth of government pays off debt and has achieved fine results in these activities during the recent years. But what about the public? Is he encouraged to pay off his debt or to repay his loans? No, it's not, at least not when the Substitute Bank is involved. More than 7,000 outstanding loans from the apartment loans pay the so-called payment fees. If borrowers want to be reasonable and have the means to pay back their loans or refinances, they must pay a special price for it. It is not unusual, in itself, to pay some kind of cover money, but when the fee is started, the amount of credit that applies in many cases is out of reach for all well - beings, at the cost of running to millions for ordinary people. People were to be informed exactly what the cost could be before they borrowed it. It wasn't done. As with a very burdensome terms, borrowing was to be signed according to the level of payment, just as borrowing is required to sign a financial plan in relation to a specific inflation plan. Today, new loans from apartment loans do not pay, but there are 7,000 homes in bondage to the unjust system. People should not be discouraged from paying off their debts.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-17-21.u3	Mr. President. I'm going to call attention to an urgent solution. It'll sound like you're playing an old record, but in the country there are 30 to 40 so - called main fire stations, i.e. The volcanoes that often come out. Five are in the preparatory phase of their activity to judge. There's a bit of a move to go over who might be the first to act, even bet on it. It's not a joke, but there's no scientific evidence that can be useful, not for now. This group does not include Kate, and there is no new news. It's looking at a protective park that's east of the Viking and you all probably know each other. I've talked about it many times, and I've written about the need to raise it. There has been no action on that subject, and today locals are also pressing, and in fact, more scientists. I think it's right to present a challenge to the council members, and especially to the three ministers, transport and rural Ministers, financial ministers and environmental ministers, and, of course, the Roadmaker, that there will be a very rapid team of cooperation with other experts in order to initiate action right now in the winter. You need to raise the stone shield, or rather, the malarkey that's in there, about a hundred feet. She shall have to be clothed in the front with plenty of stones, and shall be sure to make sure that it shall be, if Chitla's running westward, that the inhabited earth shall be in the least danger. It's a big operation, I know it, on our standards, but it's not bigger than that, so we should be able to handle it. Indeed, the safety of many people comes first, and responsibility for that security is very important, isn't it?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-17-21.u4	V.E.G. President. I would like to discuss here just the high school of the country, which is important institutions and put young people into life either for further study or for work. There is an important stage in each one's life, such as those in charge of a job and raising these young people, who put forth great effort to do what is best and to handle the money given to these things. One of the things that have been done to adjust and make it easier for young people to complete their studies at the right time is that the organization of several high schools, in particular 13, is what we call high school. These 13 schools aim to exchange students by teaching what article is being taught. I take a realistic example of a student in school A, who needs to be able to complete biology 103 this semester - that is, there are other names for this now, but that doesn't change anything - and there are too few students in his school to be taught in that subject. Then you may be able to take this study at another school, thus trying to adjust and divide among your students. All of this is done to reduce expenses, make it easier for students to complete their time and to strengthen the school environment and those who study there. I had thought I'd come into more things here. I hope I get the chance, but I'm gonna make it work.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-17-21.u5	A respectable president. Then I think it's best to pick up the thread on Tuesday when we discuss the crown of creation, the Icelandic sheep, and the things that turn it. The work environment of deportation is something to be reviewed. We have our products in the meat industry a specific work environment, which we then submerge into competitive laws. But times have changed, and the men have. Much of the food we're importing into the country is without customs. Thus, the tax protection enjoyed by the Icelandic food manufacturer is extremely limited. Imported foods are produced under conditions other than those in the country and include the size of food companies responsible for the processing and production of the products. There is no doubt that food production in Iceland can be classified as a global trade. We are working in the EEA, a market of some 550 million people. Here in this country is a reexamination of competitive laws. Each person sees that the companies here in the food industry are micro enterprises in international context. Power stations in Iceland are many and small. It follows that there is great potential for convenience. Times change, men change. This is also true of all human works. That is also true of competitive laws in Iceland. We must adapt them to a changed global picture by providing food, consumers, and farmers for their benefit. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-17-21.u6	A respectable president. Why would a young Icelandic youth not choose to engage in a study of trade rather than a book? It is clear that the need for industrialized people in Iceland is great and many companies, e.g. In the construction industry, the search outside the landstones is for man's work. There is a shortage of carpenters, plumbers, mechanics, and electric structures to name something. When we compare ourselves with our neighboring countries, we have great afterboats. There is something about people's attitude that makes parents less encourage their children to go to trade. People in general seem to have less respect for jobs that require physical function than jobs done mostly in offices in front of computer screens. I have a feeling that parents see little difference between unskilled workers and industrialized people. A picture of a person who works at a lot of weather hours is on the minds of people. The colleagues are mostly foreign, have a bad situation, and do not operate properly. On Christmastime, we tend to speak up in trade. All education ministers in my memory have talked about the importance of industry, but the situation is still a little different. Often some efforts have been started, but I think it's time to shape a policy in this case, not to take another temporary initiative. In Iceland, a drop from high school has become more common than in our neighbors, and many school students have associated it with just how few students are studying industrially. Surely, all of us would agree that high school students are a diverse group. Yet, most of them go the exact same way at high school. They go on either social science or natural science. I believe that by directing more students in industrial studies, we can reduce the fall. I don't have the solution, but I think it would be right now to work on increasing the path of industrial education and changing people's ideas permanently.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-17-21.u7	A respectable president. Last week, he complained. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson said that the Piratars had implicated him to the Nazi SS and called him an SS. That's not true. As you can hear from the recordings of the members of the council meeting, it is correct that the senator himself took advantage of the SS concept of the southern experts. Hv. A senator named Marty McCarthy criticized this illustration and asked Ásmundur Friðriksson to withdraw it, as he did. The infamous Pirati agreed. A day later, Ásmundur Friðriksson steps up again and tells us that Pirats called himself an SS man. He also reported that Pirati told Pia Kjærsgaard to share Adolf Hitler's opinion. If he's referring to an interview with me at RUV in my time, it's also wrong. Commenting on the alien spirit of Pia Kjærsgaard, it was noted that it was democratically elected - like that it could not then be a stranger. I replied with the historical fact that Hitler too had a vote behind him, which is obviously not the same thing and is of the same opinion. Everyone in this room has a vote behind itself, including myself. I pointed out that when people choose dirt, they would get to power. There is no contradiction there. I would have liked to go deeper in this interview, and I understand that people respond to Hitler's emotional and emotional responses. I don't like it, but I get it. But I don't understand what's going on. Ásmundur The Friðriksson to interpret last week made it possible for the Piratars to have implicated him with the SS unless, based on the boring explanation that he deliberately lied. I want to believe it isn't. So I'm inviting Ásmundur Friðriksson to give a better explanation and of course to retract the falsehood myself, which, of course, I expect him to do. Finally, I thank him for having accepted an invitation to discuss this with me today.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-17-21.u8	A respectable president. I was not particularly interested in taking this discussion back up again. I felt that she was going very low and that she was unconvinced in all places. Having a radio interview, or wherever it was implicated in the President of the Parliament to Hitler's views, is unrecognizable, as well as the explanation that Porta could not attend the meeting in the Parliament because of the opinion she had. [[I just explained.]] It's been shown. I feel that when people do this, they're in a corner of their argument. It was below all caves how the senators treated this woman, the highest. The Speaker of the Parliament, of the House. Of course, it is clear to the whole nation and all the discussion that followed when you and those in it were taken to such shame. But people can get better now. Last week, for the 100th anniversary of Iceland's sovereignty, the Danish Parliament called for a meeting at the dance council. That's where the Pirats showed up. At that time, it was good enough to be there and toasted at the Kjærsgaard Kjörksgaard and sit under her speeches. [[Actually, I didn't drink to her.]] I just have to say, as it is, if people are going to be in these parts, the cause isn't deep when you walk out of a meeting because of her opinions... [[Withdraw these comments.]] [[Up front.]] I think you should retract the comment that I am a thief before I do. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-17-21.u9	The President's asking for a row in the hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-17-21.u10	Mr. President. Our crown has fallen by 12.3% from the day the government of the Left Green, the Independence Party, and the forwards began less than a year. One euro is now costing more than 137 bucks, yes, the buck is about to dip one more trip. Our currency is the least independent currency in the world and is swinging for various reasons, both domestic and external. The crown is also swinging and is weak when the Icelandic government makes mistakes and the country's votes are swinging with the crown. Families pay a higher percentage of their wages for housing costs. We have a lot of problems in this country that are much higher than we do in our neighboring countries. In addition, the food basket becomes more expensive and all imported goods. Then there are the countless cost of employment and uncertainty in business dealings with other countries. With a constant currency, homes could save tens of thousands of dollars each month and enjoy comparable forms of life to those of the other northern countries, including the Faeroe Islands, who have their currency tied to the Danish crown, and the Danish dollar is tied to euro. I'm sure the company could get a safer environment. The common people are becoming more aware of the amount of money that has caused over the years and is still causing it. According to the latest study Gallup did for Iceland, a considerable number of Icelanders wanted to record euro than keep the crown, but the government intends to protect the dollar and immediately take a position against the votes of the public. [[The president calls.]] The government speaks of the importance of stability, that wages must not be raised, that paid people must understand it, but then look at the end of the game when the terms fall down. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-17-21.u11	A respectable president. With the president's permission, for the occasion, I'm going to make a song: They fought, they fought for bread, and stoned. For bread and stone are the food of men. They ran, they leaped, though the path is crooked To the wellspring of the good things of the world; And one got too little and another more than enough, And one died of a drink, and the other of a drink died. Controlling such a riddle is the greatest challenge. Thus the story of bread and stone is heard. Today, the International Day is against poverty. International Day for us to stick together and spread poverty. To this day, recently, children are prevented from being in the dining room with their companions. That's as far as we're concerned. We have thousands who live in poverty; we have children who live in poverty. Sæland Gaand's fighter founded Stockholm, number one, two and three, in order to eliminate poverty. That's why I'm here, too, in this chair. We have already shown that taxes are being taken in very poor ways. tax returns have been increasing over the last ten years, government by government to see that poverty is being maintained. It is not even possible to agree on stopping e.g. the strength of medicine, the strength that leads to even greater poverty, where people are being deceived. It's not even a bill to correct it. Clearly nothing to do, but remember that today is the day of struggle against poverty. Human rights and society have all kinds of events in order to fight poverty, and we could set a good example. We are a rich nation, we could show it right away tomorrow if we want to and make sure that no child has to live in poverty. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-17-21.u12	V.E.G. President. I'm going to talk about jobs here anyway. The legal committee, its progress, and the organization ahead. In this committee, we have worked with an organization in which the focus is on the work of a budget bill and on implementing funding and monitoring for the progress of budgets by 2018. We were here to form a meeting with The State Accounting today regarding the six-month resolution. For the time frame to work with the budget bill and the context of the General Work Programme, the Committee will complete the guests' arrival and the discussion with the manager on Thursday, November 1. Now 27 reviews have been received and published, and a meeting has been scheduled for all of this. So I can tell you here, and at the same time informing a respectable president that the schedule will work well, and in that respect, the Council's work schedule can be carried out where 2 is expected to be covered. On Tuesday, November 13th. The Commission will then provide increased emphasis on the monitoring factor and the implementation of budgets and lay the basis for this work-of-work analysis of causes and lawsuits, requiring response and action in each department according to this analysis. Similarly, we will pick up the thread using Our Kingdom Review and review their report on the nine - month resolution. In addition to reports, there are a number of financial requests received by the commission. The committee has joined in on the procedure to register all requests for the financial system and return, including with messages; the point remains to the proper minister responsible for the topic matter being addressed. This does not rule out the discussion of the Committee and the Council, but it is designed to work in accordance with official financial laws, to increase transparency, and to be equal to all authorities.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-17-21.u13	This helpful information is expressed by the president's appreciation for the chairman of the legal committee. This was certainly a talk on the activities of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-17-21.u14	Mr. President. Other than that. Less than a month ago, I attended the border survey festival in Húsavík, where much was discussed with a general survey and in particular about the possibility of space research in Iceland. There was a large group of modern - day men and women and the future, all of whom agreeed on the importance that Iceland should have a good standing in that field. There are many arguments. The first and most important evidence is that everyone growing up in Iceland will have the opportunity to show what they have in them an exciting opportunity for the future. The need to encourage children to go to science, technology, industrial or engineering and to develop research and production is extremely clear. It provides the basis for the ability to work in the fields of geology, biology, chemistry, self - efficiency, and other fields where Iceland has a strong potential to be successful. As mankind looks beyond its home here on earth and on the moon, Mars, and elsewhere, knowledge of these fields will be of vital importance. It is considered, then, that in many parts of the Icelandic world, there are chemical parallels to the moon and Mars used in research purposes. There are plenty of business opportunities. The potential for evolution is very high, both European Space Agency, ESA, and the U.S. Space Administration, NASA, with a project in Iceland at present. The company Planet also runs four world stations for its satellite systems and operates several more businesses linked to this great industry in the country. The next step, of course, is that Iceland is engaged in the European Space Agency, which the General has already decided to and has hidden at its height. Minister of Foreign Affairs to settle it and arrange for Icelanders to participate, not the audience, in the next phase of human history.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-17-21.u15	A respectable president. Yesterday, at a meeting of the Economic and Business Committee, I criticized the employment organization for irreprehensible criticism of the proposed rise in carbon costs. Some discussions in the Committee were created with a representative of SA on climate issues and the big movie, as I would like to call it. On this day, again, I will give commendation to the Associations of Employment for today's environmental day of employment. This morning, those who are in charge of professional life discussed the importance of spending years with the government and the public in the field of the environment. There's a lot of good things being done in Icelandic commercial life. I'm convinced of it this morning. But better yet, if it works, the work environment and the government, the contribution to global climate, is an important factor in our effectiveness as a member of the climate community. You see, the job life is part of the solution, and we will never succeed unless we lie down together for years. It may be that we here need some form of forcedness, e.g. A carbon tax, however, is more desirable in general. Most important, however, is the cooperation of research, evolution, and innovation. Here, professional life and the scientific community must work together with the strength and support of the State. Here in Iceland, we have a lot of knowledge about environmental and climate fields that are relevant to the world. With our sustainable use of renewable energy, Iceland can become a climate model and help other countries to succeed, and that's what we're already doing. A respectable president. We have much to offer internationally when it comes to the big issue of our day, climate, but we also have many things to do here at home. Let us share in this work together.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-17-21.u16	President. I was at an open meeting at the City Hall earlier, where I was introduced quite an exciting assignment from Reykjavíkurburg, abbey of the week's work. The meeting presented the effect of this experiment that began in 2015 on the family life and equality of the sexes. Now that the results of the experiment are being measured, there are some facts that are of interest to us. The shortening of the work week has made people feel better at work. There is a better working partner, increased satisfaction and joy, a better balance between work and personal life, and a reduced rate of coldness has been observed, i.e. mental and physical stress symptoms. There's a significantly lower strain on people. Time is getting better, and there are fewer out - of - doors during work hours. People have improved physical and mental well - being, increased energy, endurance, and more time; a valuable time to spend with their children, family, and friends, and to care for their home. A shortening of the work week has also been shown to have a chain effect, i.e. Understandably, family and children benefit from this too. There's not much that pleases my daughter as much as when I can pick her up from school, have an intimate conversation with her the other day, and then cook her favorite food. Increased time means less stress, and we can get rid of these common stress communications that undermine laughter and joy and ease our existence and strengthen our relationship with our immediates. That time is precious. Our increasing participation in our children's daily activities is precious to the well - being of our children and to their health and community into the future. My dear colleagues. I suggest that we learn from this vital experiment and continue to develop it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-17-21.u17	V.E.G. President. Yesterday, I spoke to the highest. The Minister of Education and Alfreðsdóttir for the Lilja of the Management Board for publishing books in our beloved and masked language, Icelandic. The bill suggests that there will be a support system that allows directly reimbursement for the publication of books in Icelandic and electronic form. So, at the same time, strive to hold on to things that are good and old but also come to meet new times and technology. V.E.G. President. There is good reason to welcome this action in the interest of Icelandic literature, but the effects of the bill include: ... toproveintheengineering of books and less price to consumers. Strengthening the foundation of publishing companies lay the basis for a more efficient publishing process that again makes writers an important and essential channel to promote their work. The consumers benefit so much with varied materials, hopefully at lower prices and in more accessible forms in some cases. The reaction of the bookmakers is that it gives a reason for optimism, since they believe that this bill strengthens a powerful publication throughout the year. That's excellent for the book people. V.E.G. President. It is requested to support the Icelandic book of the Government Treaty. The bill is a factor in the power of Icelandic translation as a factor in the development of a lock, but today it has been found to draw up 36% in Iceland for the past ten years. To meet the tremendous competition as a form of recreation in various languages, an Icelandic youth needs to be able to access interesting and interesting literature in English. By promoting increased reading and thus increasing reading, we contribute to education for everyone. When it comes to building a mind - working economy, a nation will go further. That's very good.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-17-21.u18	President. Health Minister's ideas for special health care have naturally attracted some attention, and there are some factors involved. I'd like to grab on to the criticism that has been heard that this new resource is being developed quickly now that a full reexamination of the health care unit is being made. This is not the first time that pain has been taken out of parentheses. Last month, the government's service contract with the cancer community was extended for a seventh time, unchanged, with an issue for the Society and its activities. The reason why this company can't be negotiated, discussed a new service contract for the future planning of the screening or to discuss society's ideas, well considered, about such an organization and the future, is that the results of a special screening board may be requested and may be introduced soon. In other words, there is nothing to do. Yet, it is not quite possible to do anything because a budget bill that was also introduced last month is expected to be 70 million. K. a contribution to the health care professionals at screening and despite the fact that a screening guide will submit its results and that health care policies are not available. I'm a great spokesman for policies leading ahead of measures and plans, and I'm not talking about the government's expenses, but here I think, as long as financial resources are within the state of the system, there's money and there's no need for total policy. This is a very peculiar approach, one that I really hope to be intervening in these and many other situations. I hope this isn't the real policy of health officials because it's certainly worse off than at home.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-17-21.u19	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for wasting time here in this important discussion of foreign investments in tourism. This material has not been discussed very much, so to speak, and it calls attention to the fact that we are still lacking a basic policy in tourism, a public foundation policy. Foreign investments in travel services do not have much to do with it. They are on a plane, mainly funding bought on machines; VOW was discussed at a certain time period. They're found in hotels and a place to stay. There's a new hotel down by Hörp. Kea Hotel, the luxury hotel at the Deeps of the Rivers. And there is Airbnb and that, although it is an indirect investment. For recreation include the Fly Overland project, and some have had small investments here because of branch offices in Iceland. Change is coming. In the island, an investment of over one billion in an investment of a sea creature show of flour is under way. There are more hotels in the country, some natural entertainment, even health - related. It's a whisper you hear. And in transport, there may be a bus company, and in the case of Uber and Live to come here and other such companies can be called an investment. I'm asking if there's a real will for this. It is similar to what has been happening elsewhere, where profits and millions of tourists have been available, but it has been slower than in most foreign lands. I'm asking the highest. A minister on her assessment of the growing international investments in tourism, whether they will grow much and what we already know of such projects on the farm. It is well - known that commercial investments in fishing and fishing are severely restricted. They ask: What about the other major professions? In fact, there is a difference between equality, one of the primary products, which contains direct resource efficiency and, on the other, a service road with much indirect resource efficiency. Nevertheless, the question is urgent because of the position of tourism as the nation's largest industry: Should foreign investments be restricted? Is available for negotiations, e.g. With European nations? What's going on? A minister of that? And what kind of restriction, if any? These are big questions and, as I say, have been a little discussed, but my opinion is that long ago it's been on the agenda and it's actually a little strange that it wasn't around again. All of this has to do with land on our island and land quality, various resources or benets. We can name hunting, soccer, tourist attractions that exist within such lands. The question, then, is that of a foreign buyer on earth, land, and so forth. The conference's issue of the left movement is now being held here at Parliament on review of national sales. I don't know what the consequences are for you, but it's in itself. But this point is, of course, closely related to what we are discussing here. Then I ask, What rules and requirements must be placed in these matters by foreign authorities? Do we have the perspective there? Do we all agree on the scope of such investments, which they should be? We remember weddings in Isafjörg deep. We know of a massive global trade in the northeastern region and some global trade in the South, mostly near the Valley of Moriscos, where it is likely more widely available. Where to go, the highest. Minister? It is important to respond to all of this in an open and democratic manner, respecting international agreements, but at the same time have our small size and special standing before the country. Now, a special discussion here has been very perplexing, both at this and at my last council, and I hope it will be that on this matter. I look forward to hearing both the views of members of Congress and the highest. Minister to these questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-17-21.u20	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson for requesting this special discussion about foreign investments in tourism. That's right. That's right. A senator, that this has not been so much discussed, and I rejoice at the opportunity to discuss it briefly. Generally speaking, foreign investments in employment are desirable. Thus, like most countries we compare with, we strive to attract such an investment. The benefits are not only the financial capital but also the knowledge, intelligence, business connections, experience and progress that are likely to flow into the workplace with increased cooperation and cooperation with international companies and investors. That is why it has long been our goal to increase the road to foreign investments. According to a 2012 Senate resolution, Iceland's competitiveness against foreign investment and marketing is a subject to be emphasised. Then, in 2016, a council resolution proposal for new investors was adopted, with six emphasis defined on them. In accordance with this policy, the Office for Investment for foreign people who are interested in investing in Iceland. Tourism is not the exception, since travel - related projects can be a welcome focus in the synonym, especially on the importance of Iceland's strengths and specialties. Hv. One senator asks if I feel that foreign investments in tourism can be expected to increase in the coming years. I believe there is a great chance that it will. Investment in tourism services has increased substantially, and this interest is likely to continue, and even more so, it will reach abroad. Although the extent of foreign investments in tourism is not clear, it is clear that she has been in several hotels and other accommodations, such as her husband and wife. A senator came in, and Icelandic pioneers are known to be looking for ways to cooperate with foreign investors in various international projects. Whether I consider the need for foreign sources is limited, on the other hand, in regard to tourism investments and land purchases. Regarding the first, it can be noted that Icelandic airlines are not allowed to be in the majority of owners outside the EEA, which some have, in fact, had a double energy, but that the point leaves me don't feel that there is a special need to install special barriers to the holding of companies in their transport services. We're here, in part, to talk about limited resources and resources in public interest. As we sit here, and the Icelanders in general, we all know that we have an extraordinary amount of value here, nature, and therefore I find it quite different to equal, whether it is an investment in property or when men are involved in the use of limited resources. In this context, I say we will need to consider the extent to which it is right for companies who practice employment in a publicized country to pay for the right to use, especially if it means they have received limited quality which is not available to everyone. If the details are properly prepared for this issue, then at least it is not critical. not yet in my mind, whether the company's ownership is foreign or foreign, because the public, the owner of the country, has been assured a certain price. Of course, our resources are always owned, despite the possibility of using it in some foreign source. The provision of distribution allows for the promotion of employment on a government land is in the opinion of the relevant matters. But it would be first and last controls, not necessarily a income raise. National and agricultural policies are then quite a special subject and not linked to tourism, but their growth has, of course, affected this factor. So I'm not going to give a conclusion from that observation. It's been under investigation for a long time. The trade of abroad can naturally raise questions, e.g. In terms of limitation of public transport or bioavailability and the usefulness of the land, the objectives and other such views support. If we don't think a landowner's conduct is in harmony with public interest, I don't think it's obvious that what the Spanish person is worth. I consider it most important to protect public interests in these matters in a general way regardless of nationality. Although this may be the case, it may well be that the review made by the government's treaty will result in a tight hold on what is now, which will be expected to have a possible impact on the tourism, despite the fact that such assessment is not limited to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-17-21.u21	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you for saying something, okay? paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson for starting the discussion, as well as the highest. Minister for his entry. Even if this case may allow... It is not much important to take the discussion about it, as do so many other tourism and try to stay ahead of this time instead of having to respond afterwards as far as too often has wanted to happen to us in this group. Many viewpoints regarding foreign investments in tourism need to be taken into account and many questions answered. Clearly, many opportunities may involve foreign investments. This can be seen in foreign studies that have shown a link between foreign investments in tourism, increased number of tourists, and increased economic growth. However, it is important to ensure that property and resources do not collect on a few people, nor do any of the resources that are relevant for the public situation, such as this. Water supply and other things. Mr. President. We must not let things happen on our own and react afterward. I think it's important that we draw up different scenarios and appreciate what we have to do to get to where we want to be in the future. So I want to use this opportunity to encourage the highest. A minister to ensure that this extensive matter will be reviewed in cooperation with travel services and that proposals will be submitted to the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-17-21.u22	A respectable president. Thank you. The apocalyptic and the highest. Minister for the answers. It's clear that foreign investments are positive for countries like Iceland. We have a lot to do with investors bringing money into the country. This shows that the industry is growing and exciting when people want to bring their money into the country and invest in it. However, we need to make a distinction as to whether there is an investor in companies, buses, or other companies, or in countries and resources of the nation - or access to resources, let's put it that way. When it comes to deciding whether to limit foreign investments, I think we can consider whether we can limit the investments that are directed toward land or land use. We must look to the future, Icelanders, and it is clear that in the future, for example. more and more demand for food. Then we must own land and land quality, useful land, in order to respond, not only to the nation's bread-born nation, but also to possible exporting food. Many studies have shown that farmers live around the world to move to cities, and few are producing food. Granted, new articles like fire and such come in, but we must look for a long time. Recently, a workforce by the Ministry of Employment received a report on the options to limit land use or sale. These suggestions are well worth considering. If I wait very excitedly to see what the government will do about it, whether a bill will be submitted or a synopsis to how we can respond to these proposals of the group. It is important to work hard to keep both in our investments and in our country, to hold on to the things that are most important to us in the future. This is not necessarily a part of a bus company or something, but it is that we have land and land quality that we can use for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-17-21.u23	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you for saying something, okay? paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, for bringing this urgent assignment to the attention. We Icelanders have had the privilege of building here a powerful tourism community, which has become the main branch of the export work roads. In view of the economic prospects we face, it is reasonable to consider how to deal with a foreign investment in this article. We have not fully completed the definition of the country's resources nor have we fully led a clear policy on its use. Yet, only Icelanders are allowed to have the priming rights of waterfalls and geothermals for household use. Energy industry should also be owned by Iceland as well as by energy distribution. In the fishing industry, there are strict rules on foreign ownership in Icelandic farms, and in fish industry it is very limited. Also valid in Iceland are the limitations of international planning for air traffic. V.E.G. President. Today, our tourism is our main job and export. Even so, there is no special obligation to transport services in the foreign trade law. 34/1991. The natural nature of Iceland is an absolute resource and we must associate with it as such. A country is a resource. It's what counts to us in a practical way. As we need to define agrienvironmental land, we need to define which land will depend on the transport and activities associated with it. To handle this party, I believe it is necessary to restrict the property of farms, regulations for use, and specific requirements for living. It's part of all of this, and we need to look at the bigger picture. We're not on time, we're on a future project. We are discussing the future work on which we will partly build our future society.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-17-21.u24	Mr. President. It is necessary for such countries as Iceland, where we are in a position, to obtain a lot of foreign investments so that foreign investments can be built up and foreign investments in tourism are no less good. However, they are generally lower here than in moderation. Foreign investors have been well - equipped to draw money out of the country more than in the past few years, which press on the financing potential of Icelandic sceptres and growth companies, even in tourism. Part of this is linked to the Secret Bank's investment commitment that was never to become an economic instrument, but it is likely to be in the case. When we're talking about this in the context of tourism and land, this is partly based on legitimate fear of country competition, resources, and opportunities because huge interests are at stake. I'm afraid the Icelanders aren't supposed to be afraid of competition. They're celebrating it and looking outside the country and out of their comfort zone. If people are concerned about the land and its negative effects for the future, I suggest that the resource rights be better separated from property than is available today and that Benjaminn Tucker or Kevin Carsons's proposal of taxation for the taxation of the estate should be done on the basis of no incentives, or even become a strong counterterrorism, to runtism, monopoltion, and misuse of resources without damaging the ability of people to use land for a productive, productive purpose, as appropriate. Since there is no physical law on natural resources, it is normal for us to regulate resource bioavailability in order to achieve a good result. Whether our ownership is foreign or foreign in the country or in the business, is it not vital that we try to look beyond the rocks, at least evenly, when foreign people come in? In any case, we should try to ensure the rights and interests of those living in our country at any given time so that we are at least with a good set of tracks about these objects. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-17-21.u25	Mr. President. I want to be like others to thank the advert, huh? paritaprevir Arrity Guðmundsson, as well as a minister for the discussion. As a result of traveling in Iceland, it has become one of the most important jobs in the country. The economist informs us that in 2017, its implications were about 8.6% of national production and that this year more than 500 billion were covered by currency revenues. Here is a new industry. She's here to stay. It has already contributed a great deal, and it can be expected in the future if handled properly. It can be said with a saying that as tourism increases, foreign investments can be expected to increase in the coming years, e.g. in health - related tourism, the building of expensive recreations, and the building of high - quality hotels, as it is possible. Asks: Is there any reason to place foreign investments in tourism regulations or restrictions, and is this possible? Like other employment practices, there is a general rule about tourism. In travel services, there are recent examples, the Marriottt Hotel at Hörpa, and the trade of foreign investors in WOW bonds, which may have had an ultimatum for the Society when an important cause called for release. In his speech, a minister gave up the rules for buying land and land. That matter must be handled very thoroughly. We need to go as far as possible and take advantage of the examples set in this regard to make sure that foreign people do not take root in Icelandic lands beyond what is said and offer obvious dangers. [[The president calls.]] It is stated that in the work a minister could produce practical suggestions that will be the basis for policy and action in this subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-17-21.u26	A respectable president. I want to be like others to thank you for this tour discussion. While we here discuss one of its smells, it is certainly an important part of the basic industry that has become available to tourism, both as national and export work. I would like to highlight what has been called on for years by people and organizations in the article itself and by us who sit at the General Assembly, which is a common policy of tourism in Iceland. I'm sorry, despite a call for clear travel policies over the past few years, it will not be tolerated. So I'd like to use this opportunity to encourage the Minister to take the initiative in performing a full-scale travel conference. In addition to the policy-making process and in this context it is desirable to provide access to foreign investments in tourism activities as long as there are clear rules on how to handle these investments, while at the same time it will be used in resource management policies. There are, of course, other definitions of resources except the standard definitions that we have. ... debatedfor decades. I agree with the highest. Ministers when they speak of the importance of protecting national interests, regardless of nationality. Let's not get too mixed up, i.e. The nationalities and use of the land or the sale of land may also be involved in Iceland, as we may have discussed earlier in the Assembly Hall. In general, I believe that foreign tourism investment is desirable and that we make a clear, specific effort to attract such investments, though it is necessary to submit to clear rules and laws. Icelandic tourism is also a fantastic site for innovation, and especially if it meets environmentally friendly activities that provide a wide range of job opportunities across the country with SMEs. If there is a clear travel policy and a clear set of laws and regulations on foreign investments, it can be funded by a higher level of money in Icelandic tourism; in an article that has already become a basic focus of the country's work. So I encourage the minister to act in that regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-17-21.u27	A respectable president. Like other speakers, I want to thank you for discussing this matter. During the discussion, I hear that there is obviously a need to discuss it. I welcome a general investment in Icelandic employment. It shows the health of an Icelandic job life. If foreign people wish to come here and invest in companies, it shows their beliefs on land and nation. Tourism has become our biggest business path. So I find it normal for foreign investors to thrive there as well as elsewhere. Actually, I don't see how we could limit or ban our foreign investment in tourism. First, we are members of a free flow contract, and secondly, I pondered the definition of travel services. What is e.g. A nursing home? Is it trade or tourism? Restaurants? Actors? Museums? You could count that long. I believe foreign investments are good. I'd also like to remind you that at our last council, we approved a review of a law on the National Institute of Iceland. One of Iceland's projects is to attract foreign investments to the country, inform foreign investors about Iceland's advantages, and provide advice to the government. It may also be noted that we collect substantial financial resources and send back to the Iceland lab to do some of the work. If we are to classify those who are rich, as is often said, is there a difference between Icelandic rich and foreign rich people? This is what I would like to state, though, that I feel that discussions about land use are very different. The way we use our land and how our land is divided in an undesirable way, so that there is opportunity for food production or for the important ideologies to keep our country in the land is important to consider, and that is to be discussed. [[The president calls.]] But my knowledge does not relate to whether the funds in this important industry are foreign or foreign. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-17-21.u28	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you for saying something, okay? paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson for starting the discussion, as well as the highest. Minister for his entry. The goal of attracting foreign investments to the land is to include: to increase the variety of jobs and to get more money for the development of the country in the long term. I feel confident that we should be open to international connections and ingenuity and not just to look at money - making funding. A direct foreign investment can be a key to economic growth in tourism and especially in cold areas. However, it is important to make sure that the work is done by the law and by the rules and by means of the system and that the system is transparent of strength and willies. It is also important that investment projects do not conflict with policy-makers and that sustainable tourism is always guided.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-17-21.u29	Mr. President. I appreciate the advisor, huh? paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson for urgent questions. The question is asked in three teams, and third team members are asked: Does a foreign investor have to be established on land and land markets? Mr. President. I believe the team needs to be answered as soon as possible. The case is urgent, ending the country a limited resource. As land needs to be able to walk by trade and trade and property, such as the farmers of this country, the need to be able to obtain a natural price for their land, to ensure that economics cannot subsidize entire companies with hunting rights, water rights, etc., and sometimes with serious consequences for their communities in the countryside, damage to social life, and school activities. We can also ask: Is it the nation's will that wealthy people, the lenlands, take over the natural resources of the nation? Looking forward to the future, there is no doubt in my mind that land will be worth ever more. Will we Icelanders sell the land away from our descendants? Mr. President. We should react before it becomes impossible. Let's make sure we don't become a nation without a country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-17-21.u30	V.E.G. President. Thank you. Guðmundsson This interesting and needed discussion, and I'd like to thank you very much. A minister for her introduction to the need for this discussion, especially because the scope of the sector's sector has increased rapidly and rapidly across all levels is now increasing. For a long time, tourism, as it were, was in the exports, third place after the fishing road, and the combined export of an eel and ice cream, and then the number two after the fishing road but now yields the most currency income and will be seen to be continued as a dog. A saying came in. As the sector thrives and the scope increases in basic services, what we can call nuclear services, transport, hosting, refreshments, and recreation, investors are expected to see economic prospects, regions like these, as well as foreigns. It is important to attract foreign funds and directly desirable that a larger and more expensive project should enter foreign funds. I'll agree with the highest. Minister, this involves more than just attracting funds. We may be inclined to look at the economic effects, but this is about relationships, intelligence, progress, and learning from other nations that have tried what travel does, both positive and negative. Therefore, it is very important that investments are prepared on foreign funds. At the same time, I agree with what has been presented during the discussion, making sure that our investment continues to be made up, what we can call the nation's uniqueness. When it comes to farming and buying land, I'm at the highest rate. A minister in the mission to clarify the right to use and the cost of a public service country and to follow up the job of a government committee that has to shop for land. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-17-21.u31	A respectable president. I think it's an interesting discussion. I believe that foreign investments are generally good for the same reasons as the highest. A minister went over earlier, that there are not only funding to the economy but also knowledge, intelligence, business connections, experience, and so forth. I don't think there's much disagreement about this point in this council hall that in itself is good. What I find interesting, however, when it comes to tourism in general is that I sometimes feel that there are problems that arise for strange reasons, such as. That we were not supposed to be able to finance building wood because we have failed to find some way to collect more foreigners, something that seems to have taken care of the matter for quite a while. Of course, I'm referring to the currency that has been fought for many years. Likewise, when it comes to rights and property rights of the land, you suddenly begin to notice some measure of concern when foreigners are about to buy a land. If we want to make sure the Icelandic people have, for example. power over their resources and that the resources cannot simply be bought up, bought up something that Iceland needs, is that no matter what country it buys from. I don't think that when someone buys a resource and decides to monopolize it, it's only bad if a foreigner is involved. I don't think it's better for an Icelander to do that. This was just a part of the idea that we could be selling the land away. Iceland has national rights over Iceland, even though every piece of land in the country would be sold to foreigners. Let's make it clear, not that I'm suggesting we should go in that direction, but it's not that just because a stranger has something that has come out of the hands of the Icelandic republic. It's not like that. I'm interested in how these things change the discussion. The discussion is absolutely important, and perhaps this will help us to take the step of achieving more long - term solutions to the issue of how to handle things such as fishing rights, resources, and land, how to ensure a geographic basis, despite some so - called rich people having large countries, etc. [[The president calls.]] The question of being a foreigner or an Icelander doesn't seem to be the main thing in that context.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-17-21.u32	Mr. President. I appreciate the advisor, huh? paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, for bringing up the matter. The growth of tourism has been unexpected and unprecedented in the past ten years so that there is no doubt about it. Investment in the preceding three years has been studied at a rate that is three or four times that in the previous few years. Even though we're here talking about foreign investments in general, i.e. In hotels, airports, transport services, and so forth, the main focus is the investment of foreign parties on land and land. The media has been high in recent years, when foreign moneymen have purchased entire companies in this country to create conditions around many benefits, such as fishing, or to enjoy quietness in the United States. Mr. President. It is not acceptable to be limited to such large commercial purchases of foreign people on the land, so whole countryside or businesses are at risk of their possession in the hands of distant foreign wealth. It is necessary to set these normal limits, such as housing conditions in some neighboring countries, and to attach them to specific sizes of the country, and to use natural bulbs, some special benets, or to create farms in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-17-21.u33	Mr. President. Thank you for all the people here who have spoken for, and especially the highest. Minister. He said that he could not see the need to limit the use of foreign investments for the time being, and that is probably all right. I can totally agree with that. He and others here also discussed focusing on other resources, global resources, benets, and so forth. It is also accurate, as well as buying a country. However, I would like to point out that it can be of importance whether investors are domestic or foreign simply because there are an enormous number of foreign investors with no natural force in regard to Icelandic. It may matter. We can see that in countries where they're far away from us, as in East Africa, where the Chinese have bought up an enormous amount of land and, in fact, a part of travel service, due to their own food production and because they are interested in making money. We couldn't tell ourselves such things. When it comes to something else that I call diversity, it can also be important whether these powerful investors come in or not because they can push up too much and speed on the growth of one sector. We can call it travel service, recreation, or anything that encourages the oneness we do not want. We are a variety of people, we want to do innovation, or we want to do business other than tourism, so we also need to be careful about this. After all, foreign investments are neither bad nor good. It depends on who's investing, what's investing, how much and how. That's what counts. As we have been called below, it is time for domestic public travel policy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-17-21.u34	Mr. President. Thank you for your extensive discussion. Many matters, such as not all brought to earth, were addressed here. In the foundation, I feel that foreign investments are generally good. We trade, especially when they contain resources, raise other questions, and we haven't solved them all. Iceland as its destination is about the original and special and sustainable quality of quantity. Of course, it is important to ensure the best cooperation with rural society and local economic development companies. paritaprevir María Hjálmarsdóttir mentioned. We need foreign investments and, as I mentioned and others have done, it involves not just money but knowledge, progress, intelligence, experience, and risk distributions in Icelandic commercial living. It's our job to watch the controls. As to tourism policies, I would like to mention that it is started with work on the so-called environmental stress assessment, infrastructure and society towards a number of tourists. The results of this work will, of course, prepare all policies. I'd like to say, in the end, it's quite a measure of what we're talking about here and everything that's about, and we'll talk about travel services, and maybe for the general population of us who live here and our country, that we can afford to do demands in all sense. We too should have self - confidence in these requirements. We're supposed to be careful, and to a greater extent, we're to look to countries that have often gone beyond our own and that's a New Zealand example. No doubt we can look to them about some of the things we discuss here and learn from what has been done there. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-17-21.u35	The arrangement has been agreed on. The minister has ten minutes to history, and two minutes after the discussion. This is then divided between members of Congress: Group 13 minutes, Central Party 13 minutes, Left moving 16 minutes, Piratar 13 minutes, Propulsion Party 14 minutes, Group 11 minutes, Backing 11 minutes, and Independence Party 13 minutes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-17-21.u36	A respectable president. I thank you for this opportunity to discuss a subject report on the tolerability of traveling that I proposed at the General Assembly. Spring. A discussion on the report was not achieved by then, but I am glad that it will now end up with an important topic to discuss the sustainable development of one of the largest sectors in the country. The report was carried out on the basis of a request made by a group of members of the left movement ▪ green supply. She's been worked at the Department of Professional Road and Development in cooperation with Dr. Gunnþóra Ólafsdóttir. It is important to assume that the report is also in good agreement with the Government Treaty, which states that during the election period, the endurance of tourism from the natural, social, and economic viewpoints will be emphasized, which is what I ousted in my second speech just before. The growth of tourism has played a key role in the reversal of the economy over the last decade. At that time, she has created far more currency money money than any other industry, as well as more jobs than any other branch. But tourism has many benefits other than economics, both positive and negative. The nature of the country, the main attraction of Iceland as its destination, must not be threatened by overwork or lack of proper facilities for travel. The large growth of this article is also influenced by society, and it also affects the traveller's experience. Clearly, the progress of this article should be sustainable, it is important that the efficient operating system at tourist locations is developed based on tolerance research. The limitation of tourism is generally defined as the number of visitors that the territory can receive before negative effects, whether of natural environment, tourism, or local attitudes. Terrain travel research began in the country around the year 2000, with a total of 58 studies at 32 locations. Many are very difficult, but in general, they have not been fully compatible or have not been fully developed. The report speaks of the results of all these tests, and I am not going to trace them in detail here. The important thing is that there is clear evidence that there has already been a range of tolerance in many parts of the world, either in nature, in community or in tourism. Of course, the situation varies greatly from territory to time, but the time has come for us to make better use of such research, to make decisions on a far greater scale than we have so far. Here in the country, the tolerability market has been used to get information about the situation, but not as a control device for its destination. So we must change. In order to enable the tolerability concept to function as a control tool, first a policy must be set for the location or region in relation to tourism. The criteria for acceptable local changes must be set and then monitor all appropriate tolerability factors to determine if the site is above or below the limit of tolerability. Thus, there is a cycle in the management program which enables policy makers to decide whether or not to act as access controls, currency, infrastructure, agriculture, education, information or organization such as single policy, etc. Models such as this may exist, but these procedures need to be reviewed and adapted to local circumstances. I think it's time for us to choose a suitable tourist location to run such a project on experience, implement a procedure that is appropriate for us at that location to start a targeted control program, including Based on their tolerability and monitoring. I'll use myself to start such a project as this as soon as possible. It is just one of the main conclusions of the report, that a process, based on established methodology, has to be defined in order to new the tolerability concept as a way to steer. However, in order for such a career to be successful, a few things need to be done. First, an increased application of research is required in the control of destinations. To improve the perspective and make better and more rapid decisions, you need to form a fold of monitoring tests. In recent years, governments have increased support for research and travel analysis. Long ago, a stronger bridge has been missing between studies and data collections and field decisions. To make things right, I have previously cast out the idea of a highly successful fishing industry on the basis of the color of the seafarts. With a new law on the Travel Office, now approved for spring and adopted for the New Year's Day, this agency is given a clearer role in the field of travel research. I place high hopes for that change and look forward to making the necessary improvement in travel research in the near future. Secondly, the criteria for acceptable changes need to be developed and to ensure that they meet in schedules, such as management and protection programmes in peace-registered areas. The efficiency of tolerance studies is based on a set of criteria that allow alarm bells to ring when some aspect of endurance is approached. In this regard, it is important to mention a major and important task at the Management Board of Travels. These include environmental, infrastructure, and community assessment of a number of tourists. This is an ambitious, truly unique project, since such food has not been previously recognized in any country, only for certain areas of the country. The first phase has just ended, and I encourage senators to learn about it, but he went out to define the seventh tens, i.e. 66, size or reference. Simply put, we have found a speed limit, and now we are going to figure out the desired speed. Is that 50 miles, 70 or 90 in a simple picture? Now this second stage involves the implementation of the indicators and the implementation of a stress evaluation based on them. The stress assessment will then prepare these policies for tourism but work on the modeling of a new tourism policy that takes effect in 2020 is also under way. Third, direction and control are required for each destination. Each part of the country must be set up to receive a number of tourists and to which areas will be maintained outside the alpha pathway, and local owners and responsibilities must shape their local policies. A new transport-based infrastructure strategy is a major step in transport-based policy-making policies and the management of public agencies. The national programme also provides policy-making guidelines for the development of infrastructures, including those for management. the country's classification of tourism and policy criteria for the tolerability of sites. In view of the introduction of national programmes, recent changes in the European Commission Actual Fund for tourism are also making it more leeway to build up areas in rural and private areas. Work on national targets is now completing, but they are very important for the development of tourism in each region. It matters. They deal with international organization, development, and markets of every circuit and tourist traffic. They are now required to implement and coordinate with other legal programmes, including National and rural planning programmes. It is also important to continue working on reviewing the legal requirements of the public rights, carried out by the Environment and Resource Ministry, and shape the agreements on the provision and employment of a country owned by the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs. It also shows that all the biggest projects involved in tourism are often used by other means. Fourth, more coordination of the institutions and increased the integration of the estimates. Balanced cooperation is especially important, as well as coordination between state and rural society. During this time, tourism has been highly important to the management center. Plans for a new National Park also include opportunities to increase coordination and coordination there. A respectable president. I have hoped that the content of the report and the discussion here will be the basis for a powerful organization on the control of destinations based on scientific knowledge. Iceland has every opportunity to set its top in this field, just as we have done on a seafront government, but this is not going to happen on its own. It is my intention to follow the suggestions and indications presented in the report on the importance of laying the basis for effective tourism management, and I hope to have a good cooperation with members of the Parliament on the efforts, from now on.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-17-21.u37	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Tour minister for the presentation of the report and planned response. This report is a fine step in the discussion of tourism endurance in Iceland, but unfortunately, in many respects there are limited steps, as shown in the final section of the report, we are again in discussions about tourism that there is simply no information and a lack of perspective. It's like the highest. The minister came in earlier, and the report goes so far as to say, by permission of the president: The studies conducted on the effects of tourism and tourism in local life and quality of life have been carried out in an unprecedented way. In some parts of the country, such as Western, Western, Northern, Eastern, and Southern, no destination has been specifically investigated for the social tolerance of tourism. In many cases it is based on a lack of scientific background and research methods, and results are not linked with new foreign research in the field and the knowledge already available. On top of this, most of the research is said to be old and therefore difficult to claim about the present position. All of us, however, must agree on the importance of this step and this discussion, and I challenge a minister and support her in asking for even more funding in research on tourism in Iceland so that we can actually begin to evaluate her endurance levels. Unfortunately, there is not much desire to do this in the 2019th budget, which suggests that contributions to the Research Centres are being replaced. Mr. President. Last spring, I used to use a conversation about cruise ships. During the discussion, the highest. Tour minister coverage of the cruise ships in the report we're discussing today. So it was a measure of frustration to read the report and see that it is primarily a summary of the number of ships, passengers, and destinations, but little or no attempt to analyze or evaluate the situation. In fact, the main part of the section on stress is the lack of talkers in the country. Sadly, this report cannot be claimed to answer any of the questions mentioned above. A minister announced responses to, sadly, that social travel is likely in its nature to be close to both social and environmental barriers. It would have been helpful to see a detailed discussion of this type of tourism and suggestions for improving them so that they can continue to be built up. In fact, the report is a judgment against the tourism administration in Iceland. It shows that many areas have signs of loss of control, control, and monitoring, and despite the fact that we are here talking about over a six - year - old reports, there is still little need for a response at present but, yes, more reports and further analyses of the situation. Don't you think it's time we had some serious surgery? Why is it using the highest force? A minister does not provide more for the construction of transport through the country? Why is there no greater funding available in the market for the areas of the country that are obviously able to reduce stress and take on an increasing number of tourists? Why are we still posting and highlighting such places as Gold Falls, Geysi, and Þingir? Should not the emphasis all be on marketing of places and parts of the country other than the south and the capital, where the pressure is greatest and the duration of resistance is reached? In fact, the situation is so strange that no one who finances the release or production of the market of part of the country today except the national parts themselves, the rural communities. Something that sounds strange in view of the emphasis that has been placed on the distribution of tourists across the country, at least in a word. Don't use funding for what comes to the market room through a travel agency in the market. Mr. President. The major conclusion of the report is that some areas, especially in the South, and in the capital area, have been reached some time ago. What can you do about it? The report offers some conclusions and suggestions, including the following: ...................................................... to determine for each part the region to receive a number of tourists and which area to protect from travel. This will require better coordination of institutions and partners such as the highest level. The minister came in earlier. In particular, it is the importance of developing a policy for Isvia to end Iceland, as everyone knows an island, and the obvious fact that it should be relatively easy to steer the flow of foreign tourists into the country through airports and harbors. Unfortunately, there seems to be little news on the trade policy for Istavia. It seems easier to find out about the construction of the second-hand airport, the Akureyri Airport, and the Lagil State Airport, and unfortunately, it seems to be much less news of the construction of other ports into the country. At the very least, it is not to see its signal in the 2019th budget and even more evidence of this in the available transport program, despite the beautiful promise of opening more openings into the country and despite being a project according to a structured plan. Then there is the ongoing problem of tourists who come to the country of Sufjörður with Norwegian, where there is a great exercise of transport in Fjords, and there is no plan to begin at the Futurah until late and later. In this context, it is interesting to consider places that seem to have a positive view of tourists and tourism compared to those who do not. Most of the people with a positive attitude seem to have the common sense of living in good or at least acceptable transport while those who have a negative attitude seem to have poor or up to unacceptable transport, whether because of lack of public transportation, such as here in the capital area or because of simply poor roads such as around Lake Me. Mr. President. Governments must have to respond to this report to highlight the construction of infrastructure, such as transport, as well as to spread more tourists around the country. This is a clear conclusion to this report, so it is easier than tears to say that once again we are not using the information currently available, at least Neither in budget nor in transport plans. I challenge the world of Congress to use and respond to the authority of the Council, even though the Council may choose not to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-17-21.u38	Mr. President. There are three things I would like to include in this important discussion. It is the social barriers of tourism, the design of workers at tourist destinations, and the need for significant increases in lowland protection. It is important that Icelanders have a positive view of tourism. A positive attitude toward tourism is a key to sustainable development in tourism and a fundamental factor in creating tourists a good environment. In addition, it is essential to create a positive image of the destination and positive publicity. Home - to - house communication has an impact on the enjoyment of tourists and repeated visits. In travel studies it is widely recognized that the local attitude toward tourism is a key factor for the sustainability and success of the article. Iceland is, uh... it's... it's... it's even... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... It's Iceland, uh... it's even... According to surveys among foreign tourists in Iceland, people and hospitality are the second most powerful tourist attraction behind nature. The marketing of destinations must take into account the local attitude of the inhabitants and the market members must realize that when directing tourists in certain areas, e.g. In so - called northern lights, they turn round, and many tourists into areas that often fail to cope with the pressures and even cause irritability to the local people. The responsibility for tourism is great, and I claim here that in far too many cases, they do not show sufficient consideration for the locals. I'd like to take an example in this. There is a small rural area near the capital area on the Pacific Coast. Where light pollution is low, the place is ideal for looking at the northern lights at such a time. As many as 15 60 bus stops from bus companies in Reykjavík, drive in the middle of the evening on the road to the north. The narrow and delicate road has given rise to such factors. Some of these buses stop at the side of the road and let the passengers into the darkness. So there are as many as 900 people there in the evening, with over 100 inhabitants of the Waterless Coast. Each tourist pays over 6,000 dollars. for the trip, so that every night, more than five million dollars are spent in bus companies' pockets. Unfortunately, these companies leave nothing behind for the locals and even threaten traffic in this area. It is fundamental that the use of tourism and outdoors is in collaboration with the locals, and they do not work on quality of life and their value, they do not spoil nature and cultural memory, and therefore Iceland's gravity as their destination. Mr. President. Next, I want to go only to the workers at tourist attractions and especially to their designs. To protect nature and culture, human resources are needed in tourist areas. They must fit into a landscape, a part of it, a place, a place, and a place to support the visitors'experience. I'm afraid this has been a failure in my opinion. I think, for example. that the guest room in Dyholay, costing more than a million dollars, is badly affected by the beautiful landscape there, especially where it takes place. I've been through this before, but in this case there was no consultation with the locals. These types of workers need a good extension and a small need for maintenance. They are to make up for the visitors'lives, but they also need to make sure that nature, memory, and the national surfaces are protected as far as possible. So let's not forget that the introduction and footprints of the situation are part of the guest's memorable experience. Good efforts have been made in these areas, e.g. For example, for access to the Blue Lion. Mr. President. Finally, I'd like to introduce to you the importance of increasing the year of lowland protection, which is a critical safety and protection issue. The same time tourists increase, such as. Smokeynes do not receive funding for the whole year, but some 130,000 tourists arrived in the Smokeynes last year. And if we take an example from Thomson Swamp, it has a very popular location for tourists, the Fjords River, which is on a natural mine. Last year 300,000 tourists arrived. The region is under intense pressure, and the local community has requested that land management be increased because of waste management and to increase the security of the visitors, but unfortunately, they spoke for deaf ears. A feather - year - old is one of those so - called self - styled resting sites that no one is thinking of. This has to be changed before a disturbance occurs, and a great deal of value is ruined by waste management.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-17-21.u39	Mr. President. First, I'd like to thank the working group who won this report for his work, carefully working in part, and also thank the Minister for delivering this report orally. Of course, those words had to be uttered last year. But it is. I'm under obligation because I took the initiative in this request and am very happy that this has worked out, both in the report and since this discussion today. It is a small growth in tourism, and everyone knows that it is accompanied by pressures on nature, on society, on economic matters, that is affecting other occupations. As you look over the stage, it is impossible to say that European tourism is sustainable. There are things that are certainly there, certain sectors of service, specific projects, business of a particular enterprise - many light in the dark, yet not widely enough. There are plenty of places where the pressure is too high. There are communities or places where tourism is the highest priority in other activities and is changing communities into dissatisfaction, I want to count, much of the population. It often affects, e.g. It's just a house matter. It may then be noted that uncontrolled growth or very rapid increases the risk of monotonous employment and economic instability. The conclusion is that we need to do better to achieve sustainable tourism. Sustainableness follows this big word, endurance limit. We know this from the fishing industry. Of course, it is well - known that all natural and social uses of that word have limitations. It is long time to plan on a summary of distances in the country's tourism services, not only through discussions, but by effective means. That's why the report was requested, and I want to say the highest words. Minister that this is a work that is already under way in several areas. Tolerances such as these involve unique places, some of which may be in private property or public property or nationalities. I mention, for example, the Ker of Grimnes and Geysi. These may even be areas in rural custody, such as the Beach Valley in Who Types. These may also be national parks and a peaceful territory, I give Thessaves, for example. If we are going to set limits, it is a fixed and complex process, ranging from looking at one small spot to looking at a very large region. But this can be done, and it can be done all over the country. What comes with the term "tolering" is the access control. There must be a direct result of that. V.E.G. A minister traced the premium of access controls well into four teams. I'm not going to reenact them. The endurance is so real. So there is a firm, theoretically determined number, as well as a large number of visitors a day or a week or what we want, which is so revised in the light of an equal experience. In this number, we need to make a very clear inspection in many areas, and finally, for the whole country. There are access controls available, e.g. Note the report TCC, a specific phenomenon developed in the European Union, called Tourism Carrying Capacity Assessment Methodology, to allow me to sludge English, a kind of carrier exercise method. This method is presented as a way to access control. This phenomenon, i.e. Access control, linked to national structure, destination plan or DMP currently working with the national market room. Of course, it has to do with a project assessment of national tolerability on the different scales I just mentioned. Access control requires a wide variety of cooperation, ranging from private partners and local authorities to the management of the Agency in this article. Control requires the application of the access control method itself when the number has been determined, how it will be held, i.e. some kind of surveillance. A parking lot can be considered limited. You can literally think of an entry point, an entrance door, like you're going to a movie, etc. These are all the items needed to be discussed and eventually determined, but it is quite clear that active control requires these components. We know this from many countries. Furthermore, access control requires measures to assign companies to transport services access to sites or regions. This can be an invitation, can be something else. All of this will be discussed carefully. All of this is going to be determined. When it comes to that process, the next task is to discuss how this national induction process, slowly and bites, will be the best thing to do in this country. Who's in charge? How is this done? Who wins the basics? Some of it has been won. There is considerable tolerance research in Iceland. It's for me a process that's gonna take years, honestly. In some cases, the reaction to the use of access controls and tolerability is relatively negative. Such reactions seem to be harsh and unpleasant. But what happens when a community of 350,000 people faces so many millions of tourists? Of course, we know that the number has slowed down, but it is still present, 2, 3, 4, 5% a year, and we now envision 2.5 million tourists. How about 3 or 3.5 million? Shall we mention the number 3.8, the number of tourists in New Zealand? There are 5 million people there. This reaction to millions of tourists, which many find harsh and unappreciative, is quite normal for us. And they're for the benefit of the tourists, since tourists are not here to stand in a long line that extends from the Hacuna and all the way down to the Þinglei, or the parking lot above Gold Falls, and they are moving along at the speed of a snail. That's not why men are here. People often say this: There are plenty of land, and we can steer tourists and open this up and that area. Yes, it is. But we must not forget that people have come here to see certain things and to experience certain aspects of Icelandic nature and culture that we cannot forbid. All we can do is use this access control. What I want to emphasize is that it's about transport quality and especially about safety in tourism. Access control is not the least of it. I mentioned earlier that this is a regular practice, and I'm just going to give two examples. Yosemite National Park is world famous. There are five million visitors a year. There are 19,000 people there a day. It's big. We can see this across to the Þingalund, which is 20 miles (2 km) before it's enlarged. There are 1.5 million visitors, and now we can ask: " Should we set up the same type of Italian number, and then who will it be? What should it be based on? Or should we take Silfra herself, the cuckoo that's in there and be popular for diving? Now it's 56,000 each year. Should we have the 1 00,000, or should we have 80,000, or should we close it completely? These are all questions we need to answer. If we find 62,000, we need to keep the system and monitor it properly, create ways for tourism companies to make use of some timeouts each time, and make sure that this will be noticed. Another example I'm going to give is one of the most famous trails in the world, Milford Track in New Zealand, their Light Road: there may be 90 people each day starting the march. These are a few days' ride. You will see in your hand that perhaps we should do the same in our English - speaking English - language publications. My conclusion is that this work has begun. It needs to be developed, explained, and completed before long.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-17-21.u40	President. As mentioned above, the range of tolerance in tourism is determined by natural tolerability, infrastructure tolerance, and social tolerance. If we go through this, nature has limits. These are much to be unknown because they have not been fully studied, but clearly they have been around quite many places. Indeed, more research is needed. We read this in connection with the Paris target and the carbon dioxide pressure, not just the outward characteristics of the major tourist attractions. It's going to have to be taken into account. In this context, this report is too small, too late. Inlands are also not good enough. This may improve over time with new transport plans and furtherinvestors. This is important in the context of the immediate construction of the maintenance needs of highways and other transport workers. However, this report and the beginning of the transport program are too small, too late. And then finally, social pressure. Clearly, a large number of tourists, in some respects for the better, change society to the worse. Many have, e.g. Notice that Icelandic is on the decline of restaurants in many parts of the country. This is due not only to changes in the language of employees but also also to the fact that good - speaking employees are introduced to more English - speaking customers every day and regularly use it in English. It is one of many factors that affect the lives of the local people because of the pressures they face. In this context, this report is really too small, too late. The problems we have in this report are not successfully addressed. Actually, it's a job that should have started a long time ago. But now there's going to be a rise. There may be some sort of stability in a place after some year as people who have visited Iceland are growing. The majority of tourists coming here will be new people who have never traveled, mixed with people who come back to the country. Actually, the accumulated interest in Iceland may be over, possibly. It is clear that there will never be a steady state of two or three million tourists a year, but perhaps it could be somewhere around one million people. Then I aim for the growing number of tourists in the world. Therefore, we should assume that tourism is here but that its significance as a proportion of total production will gradually decrease over time. We need to keep in mind that traveling services usually offer low production jobs. In order to improve production, the way Þórarinn Ævarsson, director of IKEA, has been criticized recently, i.e. driving up the prices to the skytops It's certainly working, but it's not sustainable. It will have to be some kind of change in the direction of the weaker and lower price of tourism and catering in order to maintain stability in the article for the future. It must then be built into business plans that production will never be based on 20% interest year by year, as it has been in recent years. I mention this in the context of all these boundaries, because it's absolutely right as the highest. A minister in his introduction said that access control is key. It does not have to be a direct greeting as such, it does have to be loose but selective management by some assessment, a real and good assessment of local stress tolerance. Although this report is certainly too small, too late to be used, the key is that we go to this work now and finish evaluating each place for ourselves and getting some kind of process started, such as the highest level. The minister has certainly proclaimed. That's a very positive course. Part of the solution is, as has been seen in other conditions. Councilmen, of course, contribute to areas other than the southwest corner, e.g. with improved international transportation to Akureyri and Eglish status. The wood needs to be built up as well. Nature and society need to be taken care of. Most important, we need to consider this in the context of promoting other employment roads in Iceland so that the importance of national transport will be relatively reduced even if the intensity of tourism becomes equally high. If it becomes less of our global resources, it will not be as painful to make difficult decisions that we will have to make in terms of nature protection and other things when they come up, because if it were to be discussed today, to close some important destination for some day, it would really be the end of the world. We can't afford it. We need to be careful to protect ourselves and our community and everything else from man's trouble.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-17-21.u41	A respectable president. First, thank you for the requested travel report and the highest. Minister for review. The report is extensive and well done. Thank you for Ólafsdóttir work. The report provides a comprehensive assessment of the results of tourism studies and a proposal for the development of a job process that can improve the control of the destinations more efficient and contribute to sustainable development in this article. The report shows that the situation varies greatly from one side of the country, and it is important to respond as soon as possible and to be molded. I'm a spokesman for sustainable development, and all kinds of tourism needs to take into account that goal. It is my opinion that the tourism service that has become our largest business path must achieve a certain balance. In recent years, the number of tourists has increased at tremendous speed, as the nation has not been part of it, but recent years have only diminished in number. I don't think that's a bad trend in the long run. A travel strategy set out the main objective of improving the yield of the sector, of developing targeted destinations, of extending the travel period, of reducing annual variability. It specifically states that the land should be a better distribution for tourists. It was also found that the quality and environmental awareness needed to be improved and the definition and maintenance of Iceland's special status as its destination. It may be said that the period of travel has been extended well, but it is clear that the number of tourists is making it particularly necessary to focus on endurance. So I give special consideration to the report in that regard. The range of travel can be defined as the number of visitors that the area can receive before a negative impact, whether on the natural environment or on the sight of tourists or on the attitude of the local people. A respectable president. Tourists come first and foremost to Iceland to experience unscrupulous nature. If access, access, and development are not involved, we lose our special status and tourists stop picking us up home. Also, the cost of the arrival of tourists varies greatly from country to country and often from rhythm to the number of visitors. Thus, smaller communities and territories may be difficult to deal with, especially when remuneration does not fit that number. Therefore, I would like to draw attention to the importance of the government's review of the budget of hosting fees, as well as to the fact that a moderate payment by tourist attractions is inevitable to make sure that it is not too close to nature and infrastructure. I'd like to welcome work in particular by the tourism Directorateship, which turns to a stress assessment of a number of tourists because it's important that nature and society enjoy the doubt. That work, from what I hear, will be re-enacted at a new travel policy planned for 2020. In order for our tourism to grow and thrive in harmony with our society and nature in the land, all stakeholders, states, and rural groups need to act in step. I'm afraid in many cases it's not like that at all. So we need to coordinate measures and emphasis, ensuring income plants and goods. Also, I'd like to mention here that the research in the tourism sector needs to be emphasised so that a decision-making can be based on the best available information. We need to make sure that we have funds for the National Research Centres, the University of Iceland, the University of Akureyri, and especially the University of Hólar. A respectable president. The aim of being that tourism thrives in the country at peace with the environment and society. To achieve that goal, we need to be guided by sustainability. This is an important assignment. We're a small country and, as you may say, things change around here often in an instant. The vast growth of tourists has been positive in the majority, but we experience a great increase in growth. We need to respond, work fast, and be careful, so we can make sure that tourism will remain a major part of the welfare of the people and society for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-17-21.u42	Mr. President. I'd like to express my joy with the discussion, and I'd like to thank you very much. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson for taking the initiative to produce the report as soon as I thank the Minister and his people for it. Travel services have transformed the economic landscape and brought in increasing employment and income to the state's funds as it has become a number of stocks around the country, including one of the most powerful regional policies on which to live. We who want the land to be built are very pleased with that point. Travel has increased rapidly and although there has been some reduction in the rate of growth, at least For a time, much can be expected of her. I'm going to refer to the blessed psalmist, for the most important thing is that the foundation is justified. The foundation and password for the development of this article are the stability of the tourist situation and the sustainability of the article. Those aren't words. That word has meaning, realistic meaning. Icelandic nature is fragile. The low nature bulb will not attract tourists next year. As a result, social barriers have been developed. They are often described as a special program that can develop in various ways and would be desirable to consider where we are in that process. Travelers may be helped by people who feel that they are too close to the land and the environment. In fact, I sometimes think of the Þingvall, perhaps resorting to tourists in the Hacak, who have made a long and difficult journey here just to enjoy the natural beauty of the area under a thundering noise from helicopters and airplanes. Research is a key factor in the structure and development of this article, just as other sectors here have been involved in research. We know how much a rock has been used to produce in Icelandic fishing soils on the basis of research. Some years ago, a report by the McKinsey Advisory Corporation listed what the fishing road had done, even under difficult circumstances, to produce a huge increase in production. This, of course, will happen in the power of research and new knowledge. Research is essential in all aspects of this article. It is necessary to continue working with so-called sustainable references with a view to measuring the level of resistance. Speaking of endurance, entrance tolerance, where are we in that subject? It is natural to know that when we get to the point where we are in the discussion that we are retrieving from the article, it must be up to a considerable part of the improvement in the transport system that it has so much to offer. Tolerance of health care measures, e.g. in the South, where are we in that regard? This will not be sufficient to highlight the need for laboratory testing and increased data collection. Research and information based on solid evidence are essential to sound policy measures on the part of the government in cooperation with the article. I welcome the words of a minister on that subject and tie as she hoped that a travel agency will play an important role in research in that important profession. The main policy in travel services must include making money for each tourist at the same time that, as one puts it, a person's natural resources will be left at the same time. Mr. President. Finally, I would like to suggest that the job name of guide guides will be legally protected on the basis of a uniform demand for their education as soon as a national travel requires a recognized guide. I think this is of great importance when we discuss the endurance of tourist destinations and also the lack of security in our beautiful country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-17-21.u43	Mr. President. The report on this subject, thanks to the pioneers of that work, provides a fine opportunity to discuss aspects of travel, environment in general, strengths, and weaknesses and how best to hold the cards permanently so that this important sector can grow and thrive in continued cohesion and harmony with the people and nature of the country. The time point now is convenient, given that the growth of tourism is slowing down. The growth we have experienced over the past few years, where it is safe to say that this industry has drawn the wagon to an Icelandic economy, it has been enormous. The increase in tourism has been so great that it has become clear that the number could not be sustainable over time. There is also good reason to be cautious when professional activities grow so fast. We've seen in the past that there may be trouble when there's a break in the background, even if there's only a little bit of a tap, e.g. looking at the increase in debt of the article, along with increased investments, the financial risks that have already become considerable with the article, and much less what system-based risks may exist within the article. You can, for example, do so. Consider our two airlines, key members of a passenger transport to and from the country. You see, in the past, we have come to the point of simply playing the offense and not being careful to build up our defenses. The fact is that there is a significant risk for the Icelandic economy, when growth is brought up primarily by one industry, and it is important that governments and other policy makers work on key risk factors and how best to deal with it. It is also clear that the objective of national and national global interests is not necessarily an enormous increase in the number of tourists from year to year but of the overall challenges of international tourism. Most of the assessments that have been made in this article have emphasized the importance of not looking to quantity but quality, i.e. what kind of tourists we'd like to get to the country. The high focus on the number of tourists, regardless of what they give, is likely to put high pressure on the environment and the inhabitants of the country's environment as we are experiencing now and the report discussed. In order to get a clear picture of the situation, therefore, a great and good diagnostic work is needed, followed by a clear direction and action. Like other of our main sectors, tourism rests primarily on the natural resources of the people now living in generations and those who come after us. We need to be careful when we face the challenges of building up for the future of this business even more in harmony with people and nature. That's where access control is important. Of course, it's disappointing, Mr. President, that despite years of access control discussion, use and use of it, it has not worked. The conference of travel under the continuous leadership of the Independence Party has not been able to decide what to do in these Member States, whether or not to be paid for by the most popular tourist places owned by the State for the control of pressures and for the use of return charges, natural passes, or other forms of payment to regulate access and reduce the pressures of individual tourist facilities, and at the same time finance important tasks such as protection and construction of individual destinations, the building of transport systems, increasing diversity in cultural services, etc. We know that the tourists who come here are interested in our nature, but they also come because of our culture. They are interested in our food, and they are interested in our nation's history. In all of these, we have a considerable share in the information sharing for tourists and infrastructure. During the early part of the last year, reports were that one of the largest cohesive development projects in Icelandic tourism was started, a so - called destination plan, known in English as the Origination Management Plan. This would be in all parts of the country, and it was expected that the projection would be completed in 2018. Then, more detailed data would be available on the state of the situation in each part of the country, a common objective that people would agree to pursue in the management of tourism and defined routes and projects that would have to be done to reach them. V.E.G. The minister took a good look at the situation earlier. I specifically mention this as an example of the hard work that has been done in such cases over the past few years, including the United States. resistance testing. True, we can always do better there, and we do not stop now. However, the striking conclusion of the report on the tolerability of certain tourist facilities provides a very clear signal that the time for decision and action has now arrived, at least with the other job. I would like to finish my case here by mentioning especially two things that are important to me in the context in which travel service issues are discussed here. On one hand, it is now being carried out by the Environment Minister for the Institute of National Park in the Middle East. Usually, traveling services have great value in this regard, as well as in all the inhabitants of the country. It is clear that the results of this project will influence the future activities of the industry, and it is important that the voices of those who work within the tourism service be heard at this job. However, the impact of a combination of tourists coming to the country has on the development of tourism and agriculture. In this regard, I would like to mention recently the article of Jóhannes Þór Skúlason, director of the traveling agency's Association, which gives us interesting information on these matters. This summer the U.S. stock of tourists to Iceland has increased greatly at the expense of parts of Germany and other of the so - called older nuclear markets of Icelandic tourism. The effects of such a change are many and include the results of these changes. Because nations have different cultures, they are sensitive to prices, to the organization of summer gaps in these countries, and so on. For example, Jóhannes Þór takes the case of most sleepers during his visit, but their share is shrinking from the last study or the last number. They often spend eight or ten nights in their visits, while the number of Americans, which are more and less, is less than four to five. The result? This means that while U.S. tourists take shorter trips - most likely because they have a shorter summer vacation - there are times when the Germans who want to travel on organized tours are closer to new places and services. They are more likely to travel by themselves, are more likely to drive themselves, and are therefore less likely to accept the services of companies outside alpha. They travel faster, look at things quickly, and use less opportunities for new adventures in remote places. Simply put, the composition of tourists coming here has an impact on the survival of companies and on the survival of communities. It is inevitable that this needs to be considered during a future travel date. It is important that these variables be taken into account. What combination of tourists from different countries and cultures is best for us, for our nature, for our culture? How do we get that combination? How can we attract the desirable tourists if we want to go at another table? Are there undesirable groups of tourists based on the interests of the Icelandic and the natural world? If so, how do we keep them away? Is it over a slow head? When these questions arise and are discussed, it is inevitable to consider the role of the Kingdom company Istavia. It is necessary in this respect, and most of the other matters involved, in fact, in the setting of the Istavia in the development of the Chefavil airport are in accordance with the policy of the field, the State, which market area we want to focus on. I think I'll handle it correctly when I say that as the situation is today, the secretary of travel is not a representative of the Istavia board. And you forgive me, Mr President, this is crazy. There must be a requirement for the government that they make sure that this is a step.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-17-21.u44	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister of Þórdís Kol Kolbrún Gylfadóttir Golvetir. I'd like to thank you too. paritaprevir Ari Guðmundsson for the report request and the welcome opportunity to discuss this matter. I wondered what it says in the report, that tourism may be affecting the positive experiences of the country and thus working against itself. Of course, that cannot happen. I think it's important to balance protection with innovation. You need land control and information advice, and even harder control procedures, if that is not enough. Although most of us are opposed to commands and bans, we may need to resort to extreme measures, access controls, local numbers, and other forms of such. It is important to make a suggestion to prevent people and groups of foreign and domestic tourists from traveling in Iceland's highlands on road vehicles and causing irreversible damage to nature due to lack of knowledge and ignorance of vulnerable land and growth in Iceland's most vulnerable natural bulbs. Other nations do not allow such things to continue. A respectable president. Tourists who arrive in the country are mainly natural fans by polls, like most Icelanders. However, annual reports of irreversible natural damage from road transport in Iceland are received. It is not new that with increasing traffic in the highlands, there will be more serious damage to the nature of the country we must guard against. We Icelanders and I must follow that example and set rules for translocation in sensitive areas, as do most countries that want to protect the environment of their countries. The fact that our land is advertised in foreign fields is of vital importance. In many cases it is suggested in articles on highland travel and advertising in foreign magazines that in Iceland's highlands tourists can travel freely without any barrier. The results of such coverage can be seen when tourists and their vehicles have to be rescued far off the road or in the highlands. Travellers believe that they have rules. A lot of news reports in the media each year report the incredible damage caused by ignorance, but also by determined violations. This must be stopped. After such a Bjarmaland trip, there will be great opportunities and means for rescue teams to capture cars, trucks, and even groups of tourists traveling in the face of irreversible damage to vulnerable nature, and they will pay no back tickets. So it is important to set strict rules regarding personal travel and grouping on road vehicles in Iceland. A respectable president. In order to follow, broad consultations between stakeholders and clear rules are required. The organization of tourism, travel agencies, guides, police, and rescue teams, rentals, and landowners is key factors in protecting the highlands. Then it is important to consider the experiences of other nations that have strict rules regarding travel, insurance, and domestic transportation, license and association, and journeys across a wide area and reservations. I'd like to see if there's a special currency and minimum knowledge required for a trip through the highlands. Such pay or insurance money for commercial travel should entirely be the cost of monitoring and saving people who often take great risks and have to be saved at great expense. A guide to the town should be conditional for business trips. A cashier could also refer to tourists walking in the highlands, mountains, and glaciers, in groups, or alone at all times of the year. This is required in other nations. I mean, if you pay cash, you pay for it and you're gone for a living. A respectable president. I'm going to make a synonym motion that's about that point.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-17-21.u45	Mr. President. I want to start the talk by thanking the highest. Travel minister for a report on the tolerability of tourism in Iceland. After reading a very detailed and long report on tourism tolerability, I soon saw that research and data limit the results of the report. There are data on key sites and tolerability checks that are correctly linked to these sites, but there are holes in the report with missing information on endurance, especially in the East. I'm glad that this work has started because I think it's very important to progress in transport in Iceland. The positive thing in this report is that tolerance limits are not reached at many destinations in Iceland. There are several ways to control distribution better and reduce pressures in the designated places, and there are ways to improve access and facilities in popular places, increase support for innovation, provide interesting tourist locations, and, above all, identify new places that are not known throughout the country. It is important that the introduction in new territories be improved and support for innovations in various areas related to travel services and the issues used in the articles needs to be increased. The most important role e.g. The national innovation centre is active, and in the context of this, no employee is located on the behalf of the Agency in the area from Akureyri to the Western Islands. Now we're working on a innovation policy that I have high expectations for. It is important to look to the country in both its design and its induction. Today, the market is not in the hands of the regions except for some earmarked tasks, e.g. in connection with flying development funds. Thus, Iceland's marketing is run through a variety of national conflicts, such as Iceland throughout the year, directed toward half of the big transport industry in Reykjavík. A strong example of a very popular destination in Iceland is Sufjörður, one of the most popular destinations in the East. Since I have been working at tourist markets for the last five years, I have talked to many visitors and, unfortunately, often had to listen to experiences that were not good enough. Here's one story that could be true of a guest traveling east on a flight to Chefavík. She's going on a national flight to Eglish status. A visitor is listed as one of Iceland's target groups, diagnosed by the National Institute of Iceland. The target class is called the happy city of the world. He's creative, he's suburban, he wants to experience exotic nature without endangering himself. He often attends Iceland during winter, and he shares his experience on the Internet during and after stay. Imagine this guest's story: God, I've been so looking forward to going to Iceland on a trip. I'm on my own. I'm gonna load a battery, in particular in the East, on Soydell. I have read a number of articles about culture, the good sushi, and especially the human life on the land. I'll be landing at Keflavík, but I can't find anywhere to get to the international airport. I walk all over and suddenly you stop me and ask me what I'm looking for. Yes, I'm looking for the Terminal to take me east at Egls. It's not here, you have to go to Reykjavík for that. - Actually, I can't find any meaning to that. No, you're just taking a bus, and it's no big deal. I'll get on the bus and I'll be on my way, a very nice bus with a wi-fi and everything. Then the bus stops at a place called the BSI. I don't know exactly what that means, and I turn around a little bit, and I scratch my head and I don't understand what to do next. I'm gonna go out there and see where I'm gonna check in. But finally, I get that message, I come to another place, and I'm very confused, that I'm in the wrong place. I've got to take a cab or walk a mile to the national airport. I'm surprised. I'm getting rather frustrated. I end up paying back what I paid for on the bus to take a cab because there's a lot of traffic at this time. When I finally get to the airport, the lock won't work in the bathroom, and there's trash everywhere. I try to think positive and wait excitedly for the flight to Eglish position. The flight is great, and I'm getting a car on my landing after a very good flight, and that's where my main tour begins, the trip to Sufjörður. It's October, and I'm looking forward to it. I feel the weather is only getting worse, but I still keep thinking, "Nothing can happen, it's just October and Iceland is such a big tourist place that I can't get into trouble. Unfortunately, though, I got stuck on Föndur. I don't know what to do, but it ends with a man who calls the rescue crew. They're very lovely, and they tell me it's all happening too often. I don't understand anything. Iceland, this popular tourist country, is it really supposed to be like this? The next day I get to Seydifjörður, and I have a great day there, but I still have an anxiety in my stomach all the time before my return home. I'm sorry, I can't recommend this destination for my friends, at least. Not enough time to save the torrent when it is due. A respectable president. The weight of traffic is high above the Fjords, and no urban area with a similar traffic weight has been waiting for a permanent, safe full - wound exchange. The poor experience of tourists will make it a safe destination and there will be no chance that the visitor will recommend the location to the future. Let us bear in mind that if governments fail to take this seriously that tourists are not to be distributed and that they do not have good memories, this is not going to end well. There are many areas that are not used to tourists. [[The president calls.]] We should also bear in mind that the introduction of Iceland after the financial collapse gave rise to a massive traffic in the southwest corner. It's time to think about the ring. [[The president calls.]] I know it's the highest. A minister agrees with me in that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-17-21.u46	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister very much for the report. Tourism is one of Iceland's burden lines, and it is important to strengthen every infrastructure it can build. We will see the signal, as shown in the top report. Minister, access to certain places has become too great, which tells us that we need to better control and guard certain areas. In cooperation with stakeholders, it must be ensured that the article provides a natural contribution to the structure and protection of society. It is interesting that in recent years, the annual fishing crisis in tourist arrivals has decreased. It tells us that something we have done was right. However, there are several things we need to improve, and one of them is the distribution of tourists across the country by means of targeted measures. In the district of July, members of the North Eastern District met with economists who pointed out the fact that the market still uses a sample of footage from places we can say is simply infested. They're sold out. There's too much change. These are especially places on the southwest corner of the country. As I told you, the distribution of tourists around the country needs to be done in a targeted way, and we need extra funds to build up. We need to develop promotional work in lessdeveloped areas. The tools we now have are the market rooms of the country, and we need to use them in particular. I'm going to end up talking about this country's airport. The Cheflavor airport is certainly a special place, and we have excellent information about the statistics relating to it. However, I am a little surprised if the report says correctly that during a tourist tour agency, there is no information about tourists coming on other international airports or with Norwegian, as well as those passengers of cruise ships are not included and their living distances are not calculated. If this is the case, it is a matter of concern.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-17-21.u47	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for this important report and for the opportunity to participate in a discussion about it. Tourism has truly been the most fond of getting Iceland back on track after the disaster that hit the country 10 years ago. I cannot resist the temptation to recall and go back a little further. When some of us said that it would not be advisable to rely on established commercial activities and hard work, we were made fun of ourselves. The complex question, "What else do you think we're going to be? " We were known as the flotation team and mountain flowers of a particular group. Ideas that unspoilable nature is nothing more than a defective natural nature garnished in our ears who wanted to protect nature. Of course, like so many times before, we were right. It was nature that brought the tourists here. Then, an island bee took on advertising. The situation has now taken place, so tourism has become the largest industry in the country, and tourism has become a major threat to its environment. There is no doubt that the uncontaminated nature is the main attraction of the country. So we need to find ways to protect the areas under the most pressure and to draw attention to places that are truly able to receive more tourists. While some areas are being choked by tourism, other areas are almost cold, and more tourists are likely to be tolerated. As soon as we limit the number of tourists we allow into areas that have reached tolerability, we have to advertise other locations and make it easier for them to access them. These ideas all appear in the highest report. Travel, industrial and innovation ministers. It is important that we study these matters and react. In some cases it may be necessary to close areas and give them a chance to recover. I like the ideas that research in this field will be used to make decisions for individual areas and entire parts of the country. Now the tourism seems to be changing. Travelers spend less time on the land, and this has already brought bad results for tourists, especially those who live far away from Cheflavík, the largest gate into the country. I suspect that high prices on the domestic flight are a major barrier to the distribution of tourists across the country. It is important to have a link flight from Keflavík to airports in the region and to pay further to increase the number of the gates into the country. Sadly, though, such efforts have not yielded sufficient results. I hope that working on national destination plans will pay for such airports as Akureyri Airports and the Egressant Airports to be competitive. As we have seen, the most stressful conditions are in the South, and the southwestern region. However, most other areas can easily receive much more tourists than they do today. One of the biggest problems for tourists who run tourism companies away from Keflavík is the annual fluctuation. It is extremely difficult for an enterprise to make investments when it is almost all during the summer months. It has a high structure of hostels, and people hold back from investing in machines used for only four months a year. This company needs support. Why not strengthen your efforts to advertise less sophisticated locations? Little villages throughout the country are fascinating destinations for the many tourists who want to get out of the wind and cover the cities where they spend most of their lives. Indeed, Reykjavík is a fascinating tourist location, for the middle city is already under intense pressure. The population of the city's urban population is tested by a large number of tourists, and the tourists are likely to like other tourists. I welcome your report. A minister and is convinced that based on scientific knowledge and scientific research, it is possible to protect the areas of great urgency and to get tourists to spread more freely around the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-17-21.u48	A respectable president. In recent years there has been a clear rise in international tourists regardless of the tolerability, but the report, which is a very good start to the missing, is very much about the challenges. In particular, work at policy analysis has not been carried out in Iceland and is the review of this section of particular interest. The history of the word of endurance is reviewed, how to take into account the endurance of nature, the tolerability of infrastructure, economic tolerance as well as social. It will conclude on the definition of tolerance for Iceland, if I correctly submit to this report and this section, with the permission of the President, which the number of visitors to which the territory can receive before negative impacts occur, whether natural or local environments, experience of tourists, or attitude. It discusses what role should be put first, whether to put nature in first place, or to travel, or to aim for the weakest link. The conclusion seems that as soon as negative effects begin to occur, this should be taken into account. Thus, there may vary from place to place, nature, experience, tourism in another way or another. What I miss in my tour of pressures on the various travellers is that very mass epidemics were missing in the list, as mentioned earlier, e.g. A feather gladiator and a Church. There would need to be an analysis or a list of such sites, at least over the places where there are land prices. The P.R. report is also briefly reviewed and reviews of Public Relations. By permission of the president, the report says, on page 18. 63: In addition, the view that lawyers should not be able to exploit this right of the public at the expense of others and that it was clear that some kind of travel control was necessary as part of the global travel organization in the country. I agree with the view that the public should not be accepted into the public court because there is so much tourists that prevent them from being used. I'd like to compare us with two other countries that are similar in size to Iceland, Guatemala and South Korea. In their lands, there are far more tourists than there are in Iceland. Although these countries are geographically the size of Iceland, they are more numerous and thus have more infrastructure to some extent. The number of tourists in those countries is such, in view of the number of tourists in Iceland, that we should be able to receive much more tourists. However, our infrastructure is not for this, as it has clearly been seen regarding the stability of the transport system. Finally, I'd like to remind you of Pirata's policy of sharing part of the merit tax with neighbors. This means that when tourists go to the place, go to the store and buy milk or buy a northern light tour on Smokejanes or something like that, the community almost gets a share in that tourism and trade. [[The president calls.]] I look forward to the future. The report is very well done by me and a very good start.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-17-21.u49	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss a report with you at the highest level. Tourist, industrial, and innovation ministers on the tolerability of tourism. I like it like the rest of us. At first, members of the Parliament thank the highest. Minister for the report and to present it here for discussion. The growth and scope of the industry call for government policy and various measures. A report as presented here is, of course, an invaluable input and need to be discussed at the council's scene. Indeed, we are affected by the growth of tourism in our community. It has a high economic impact, which then reflects on the high structure, services and opportunities for business, business activity and the increase in currency income, but also on increased pressures on the infrastructure and the need for faster structure in that area, for example. ... onthefield ofthepassage. We also feel increased traffic and access to our most popular and the most versatile tourist attractions. Therefore, this report is of utmost importance. According to the report, at the request of the left movement, a green supply was made at the 146th legislature and should be thanked for that request. As mentioned above, the report is not presented until now, but it does not reduce its importance. This report contains the name Strategies of tourism, but not the tolerability of tourism. Why am I drawing it out? Because it's interesting and I'd like to say that one of the things that are extremely good at this report is the treatment and definition of terms. For a long time, we were dealing with the meaning of words in English translation, and not long ago in the field, we were stressed to talk about tourism rather than the tourism industry, which is directly translated into the English term ◯tourism industry, which simply means industry. Institution then involves the transformation of raw materials to final product, but tourism involves processes, communication and services, as the name suggests. A respectable president. As much as this report reveals, the thoughtful experience is the visitor's experience. This brings us to the most serious treatment of the terms of tolerance and sustainability. This report is well presented in this report. I think it's very important, and that's one of the things I take from this report into the coming policies and development of the tools we have to build up to deal with the Rivers that are visible and that we experience in our most advanced tourist destinations. If we are to do so in a wise and wise way, we must first understand what the terms, what they mean, what they mean, or the tools will be useless. Therefore, I think it is important to review the report in particular in terms of this and how tourism, as planned, can develop in a sustainable way. What does that really mean? It depends on the context. On page 18. 34 is a good definition of the sustainable concept. I'm, by permission of the president, here to testify: ▪ The development that enables us to meet our needs without endangering future generations' potential to meet their needs. Of course, this is of utmost importance when we are developing tools that will ensure this in the future. In turn, it is better to be aware that this definition and what understanding we put into it on page 20. 45. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ Thoughts such as sustainability and tolerability are a complex subject and sometimes criticized for being vague and abusive. It may be better to view sustainability as a process than some sort of permanent situation and may not be able to ever be fully sustainable. If so, but we plan to sustain ourselves anyway, we must, of course, decide when we build tools for tourism, whether they are mental or tangible, what this means for us. I'm going to commend the press for a careful approach. The definition, because I've been dealing with the sustainable concept, is no less a difficult subject. As the report shows, there is, of course, more than a lot of stress on nature and how much nature can endure before it, when it becomes cumulative, and the number of visitors it can take in before it does. The thoughtful show is just as important. It's how the tourist, the client, experiences this, how much the eye can stand, when this calm feeling that the tourist looks for gets disturbed or the feeling of being more than anyone else to experience something special, as well as the attitude we have here. There's a lot to do with our responsibility, and it's not just teaching that we're doing well with these terms in what we call so strong a policy effort. As people living in the land, we are also tourists in our own country without us putting ourselves in such positions. Rather, our experiences shape some of this attitude. That is why it is important for us to be careful in this work. The report is based to a degree on the tolerability studies performed in several areas. It is very prominent, both in the report and in this discussion of the report, that further research is needed in order for us to be on the move to use the tools at conventions and the highest. The minister finished his career. [[The president calls.]] I want to thank you at the end of the day. Minister particularly for the report and discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-17-21.u50	Mr. President. Thank you for the opportunity to discuss this matter on the tolerability of tourism. It is impossible to say that we have been surprised that tourists have recently discovered our country, we who have flocked shoulder to side with the sun and have lived there in the human race on several gangs of shores. No, we may not have been surprised, but we had a few moments to figure that out. We're kind of like this, Icelanders. Then, suddenly, everyone is called to work. People hope for the best, though often the results will be less than if things had gone a little slower. That's the way it's been so far with the tourism. But we must protect our delicate, beautiful nature. There is truly a need for clear policy plans, and a vision of the future is needed in this regard. Of course, I'm glad that the government is becoming aware of operations and is becoming more premeditated. It has been observed that many tourist attractions have reached the limit for application and harassment. Incontrovertible distribution of tourists throughout the country puts pressure on some tourist attractions. They are primarily located near the southwestern corner of the country and must first be named Gold Falls, Geysi, and Þingles. Other locations, such as Landsavers, are also located in the fragile areas of vegetation, and there is little need to be taken away from the sight of the area. Of course, there are many other places that are popular and that are at risk because of people's trouble. Mr. President. It is necessary to take immediate action that some of the places are very sensitive, not to mention small, remote places that suddenly get much attention on the Internet, without any warning, and there are hundreds of visitors where souls were not seen a few days earlier. The delicate nature of this region must constantly be kept in mind that foreign tourists do not know from their homelands. Thus it is important to define an individual's own endurance limit. Travelers and their experiences will be impaired if they are too many at the same time. Obviously, the number of visitors has to be received in increasing numbers in ministries. But this is not enough; governments also have to invest in transports far and wide around the country so that the heavy currents can make their way around the country. There I would like to take as an example the Western Islands, where transportation is not enough to prevent the development of tourism. Mr. President. It has been better than any suspected in advance to point out to tourists that it is also wonderful to arrive in winter. No one would have thought that 20 years ago anyone would think of freezing here in cold, draughting, but that was not the case. This suggests that it is possible, through a concerted effort, to channel the flow of tourists in certain directions. As soon as I discuss the distribution of tourists at different times of year, I want to be sure to the government that the number of airports ready to take part of the pressure from the international flight and the current from there to other parts of the country is absolutely necessary. In this way, the pressures of tourists can be spread in more places than just the southwest corner. And I will name such places as Akureyri, and Eglish, and Isafjörður, and Horne, and the Islands of the West.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-17-21.u51	V.E.G. President. Travel has been an ever - increasing industry in this country for the past few years, and it has given a huge amount of money to the national income, making it now the largest industry. There are good and worse things, and there have also been good and bad comments about the tourism in this country, which in itself is not unnatural when a new industry grows as rapidly as it really is. However, it should also be noted that many people in many parts of the country have made high costs of ambition, boldness, and effort to build companies and facilities to serve all the tourists who attend here. The report under discussion makes it clear that there are substantial challenges in the southwestern corner and the South, both in nature and in the social tolerance of the citizens of the industry. As we look at other parts of the country, the report says, with the permission of a president: Although Western lands have quite a place, natural conditions are bad in several places. People would like to have more tourists in the part of the country, especially in the wintertime. In the West, the state of nature is lacking in several places, but general pleasure is measured among tourists and local residents. A greater proportion of the population do not find it desirable to increase the number of tourism in the summer but is more open to winter. In the north, the views of tourists and residents in general are generally positive, but they vary from place to place. Seafood and Húsavík are examples of tourist areas that flourish, but there are clear warning signs in the CEE section because of pressures on nature and infrastructure. In the Orient, there seems to be a good situation. The population is optimistic and optimistic, but local stress points can be found, e.g. The School of Lilliputation. What is marked by the reviews and comments given in the report is that people want more and more time for tourists to come to their homes. I will look especially to the north, to the districts of Eyjafjörður, and to the provinces, and to the east. There are many valuable and heavy natural bulbs, interesting places and communities, building services and entertainment, hotels, restaurants, exciting restaurants, interesting museums, whale watchings, hunting and skiing facilities, as well as businesses with beer, farms, and sea baths as new and enjoyable entertainment. In those areas, the limit to resistance has not been reached, and efficiency may be even better. It's unfashionable and bad for a tourism company anywhere in the country, much since June and September, but it's been extending, and especially in the capital area and southern country. I consider national economically practical, and the importance of community development to shift more and more tourists across the country over the year. By doing so, we can prevent overindulging in individual territories. Various activities have been taken in recent years, with the aim of spreading the traffic of tourists over the year and through the country, including the U.S. with the marketing campaign Iceland all year long. However, the number, bioavailability, and distribution of tourists to the future need to be targeted in order to prevent threats of endurance in some areas of the country, and others being left out in the important national structure.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-17-21.u52	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you very much for this report. It's a very good clue to what we have to do. It is a good first step in becoming better aware of what we need to do for the future. In many places, our basic needs have reached the limit of endurance, i.e. The road system, the health system, the law, the airports. There is a need for mass erosion and targeted structure, and nature has also reached the limit of endurance in parts of the South and in various parts of the north. I happen to meet this morning a fine woman who runs a travel agency in England, transports good tourists, i.e. In view of their well - paying, well - educated, well - educated, well - mannered behavior, good travellers. She said to me, "There's nothing wrong with Iceland being sold out, there's nothing wrong with some places in Iceland being sold out and no more people are allowed in. If I had one, for example. To illustrate, it is Landsaholics, but after going there, you really need shock - healing help, as is the situation there today. No wonder the patience of the Icelanders is lost when they see signs of unscrupulous external driving and many of the things we've been trying to build up these recent years! It seems that many travelers viewed this sudden surge as some sort of fur - teeming tan and are willing to throw everything away in the melting, not the freezing, but the freezing. It seems also that many who run travel have the goal that the tourist who comes in here will never come back; he is swept away with a yoke and unbridled greed. That's another story. We may be able to learn from this. We need to be more open to learning from others. I mention, for example. countries such as Germany and America. In Southern Germany, e.g. Travel services have been conducted in very vulnerable areas for 100 years. We can learn from the way they have walked. I would, for example. I'm willing to bet if the Loftur Road, i.e. The walkway, if it were in Germany, people would be allowed in that area only under the supervision of a guide. I've got it all figured out. There are some of these things that we need to consider. We also need to make sure that we interrupt and strengthen the rules that we can take into consideration if necessary. I admit to myself that my skin and my nerves have gone through the country to slip groups of passengers into the land of the Horner, and we don't do anything. It's natural, Mr. President, shame, fuckface. Of course, we should keep humans from going behind the rules and cause natural bulbs to be trampled down. It's annoying. The more important it is, travel is far too many departments. Either a major cooperation is required between the schemes these seminaries hear or simply to promote the better - acting travel Department so that we can prevent us from being affected in the future. That is why I say, "The report is a good guide, but let us also use it and go as far as we need so that we do not become uncomfortable. '
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-17-21.u53	Mr. President. First, like many others, I want to thank for the report and the work that was put into it and also for a good and informative discussion here. There have been a lot of things that we last came to sit left with a little mixed in a bag, but there's still plenty to take. This is an interesting report and a number of aspects of it. The report discusses matters that I have felt were very long late. Travel is a industry that got us out of an economic collapse and it has seemed to me that we were rather ill - treated with our golden goose and not cherish it as we should. Although the report is very good, I find its introduction quite vivid to Iceland's view of tourism, which is shown on page 6. 2, with President's permission: It is important to consider whether the natural nature of the country, which is the main attraction of Iceland's destination, may be at risk because of overexploitation or lack of proper facilities for travel. It is said that there is a need to determine if there is any threat to the natural world. I would have thought everyone knew. It is noted in other locations of this report that there are reports of extreme tensions in many places, and this is a threat to nature. I think it's very clear that we think we need to see if our country is going to be too much trouble. Although we have witnessed a tremendous increase in the number of tourists since 2011, we have not yet come to any conclusions or have undergone any really persuasive measures to protect nature from tourism or to build up the infrastructure needed to receive as many tourists. Me and the Icelanders are turning 330,000, and the almost 3 million tourists that come here test our infrastructure a great deal, whether it's roads or not. This is one small example of what I think is a reflection of our attitude. We are still looking at that section seven years after an enormous growth began. I think it's time to take action, and I agree with other people. Councilmen. I'm the highest. Ministers to recruit more ministers to handle the situation, both in the environment and also in the development of infrastructure. Although enough of the service groups are available, a group of ministers could be appointed in that capacity. I liked it very much. A minister mentioned in his background the matter of little Peter. I think we just have an excellent example of how we handle that very important resource. I think it would be extremely important to have a good perspective, because like a whale. paritaprevir Friðbjörg Peace of Elíasdóttir's daughter mentioned her speech without information and consistent action. It's in the report. One thing I'd also like to mention that I've been missing in the social and economic issues of tourism is, of course, social subsidies for tourism and the misuse of foreign labour. I haven't felt that it was discussed in the discussion, and I don't see it properly in the report either. I think it's important that we think that foreign workers are being abused in a very harsh way in the tourism industry. We must be alert to that fact. It also misplaces the competitive position of the tourism industry. Then I'd like to add some thoughts about foreign tourist interests or consumer protection because sometimes I'm afraid of what people are allowed to get on the road in this country. I think it might reduce the sustainability of the industry. [[The president calls.]] When people are brought to the throat by paying up 500 bucks. for the water bottle, it's possible to stop coming here. We should take a serious view of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-17-21.u54	A respectable president. I like it like the rest of us. The members of Parliament thank you very much for this report presented and thank you to the highest degree. Minister for escorting her out. It is important that we take this discussion to heart. " But,'I wondered, " are we just forgetting about the point of missing all kinds of information? ' Here I feel that many members of the Parliament have spoken as if nothing had been done in the tourism service or in the planning of tourism, this important profession. I would like to mention only the report of the development of the transport service in Iceland until 2030, which is an excellent stage-based film and risk analysis done for the management center of tourism, which is just some kind of Minister and professional in the way we want to develop this sector. You see, I think we've done a lot of things very well when it comes to this business, but there's a lot you can do better. This report is in my mind about whether Iceland is sold out. My answer to that is that Iceland isn't sold out, but I can join a lot of people. Councilmen here who have spoken and even Yeah. paritaprevir Sæmundsson, mentioned, e.g. Landaholics. The report makes it clear that there are limits to endurance. I was shocked to visit the country's last visit. In fact, I don't know if it's realistic to get a guide every time you walk the Hot Gates, I have to make the run, and I don't know if many people are ready to run it as guides. In many places, I think we're basically watching that we need some sort of access control. When we look at companies that have achieved the most success in tourism, I'd like to name a company like the Blue lago, which has a very clear access control into the ground. I think we need to consider some of the more serious ways to steer people into all the most popular tourist attractions. Then the point is that we've been talking about here for a long time, that's the distribution of tourists. First, it was about our focus on Iceland all year long, extending the tourist season, and it certainly has. These are not only tourists in the summer but they come in winter and throughout the year. But we may not have been as successful in distributing the land to them. Actually, I don't know how realistic it is to be going to the highest. A minister or someone else handing out tourists from different parts of the country, but some marketing measures can certainly be used, and especially in cooperation with the locals, the Marketing Office of the Country and other such. I'd like to come into the last minute just because we're a little busy with the head count when it comes to tourists. I don't know if it's always the most reasonable thing in this important industry, but we should rather examine the value created in the article as such. It may not be quite realistic to control the exact type of tourists coming to the country, but some measures such as marketing and other measures can be taken, and I think we should try to encourage the article in that direction. More like tourists who are willing to come here and spend some money to experience nature, as well as other entertainment. It is only then that it is easy to look for incentives, conferences, and other factors. In the last second, I'd like to mention the cruise ships. They're in the report, and I'd like to agree with them. paritaprevir It's about Sæmundsson's hideout. In fact, I think it was addressed to the terrible event that a cruise ship let tourists into our homeland. [[The president calls.]] Of course, it has to be taken care of, and I wonder how much we're getting out of that kind of tourism and where we're going to draw the line on that subject. [[The president calls.]] Then I think we'll have to look especially at the importance of the ocean between the Western countries and the Arctic region all over. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-17-21.u55	Mr. President. I thank you and wish I had much more minutes than the two that I have, but I'm going to try to come up with a few things. The report showed that the investigation was by chance, and I agree with it. That is why we highlight reliable evidence, research, and little Edro. That is why a travel agency has been given a court view of law, not so that a travel agency will perform all the research but will have the perspective needed. The major project on environmental stress or tolerability, infrastructure, and community to many tourists, I think, is a source of what many say is lacking. This is the first stage ready, and I hope the senators will read it through and study it. Other types of wood are introduced and we have reached endurance levels at various sites. It points to roads, airports, ports, supplies, natural services, health care, law enforcement, housing markets, employment markets, tourist pulses, etc. We're trying to map it accurately, and then a young man of two has to figure out where we are and what needs to be done to correct it. Regarding Istavia's tenure policy, I'm going to say that I agree with that as a matter of course. The senators mentioned that the traveling minister should have a ruler. My opinion of how the government is set is that I would want to see certain changes in it. I am very happy to hear the interest and enthusiasm in various matters, especially when it comes to specific management that we have much left in us, but I also stress that we already have a specific control program, within national parks, when we build up wood, in the national programme, where it is the main theme. In terms of payment, we have a host tax, we've changed the traffic laws where parking costs are allowed, and we have national fees. I'm going to tell them my opinion on currency in general and in the discussion that I'm fighting not specifically for payback but for proper management and clear rules in tourism. Sometimes fees are involved and will definitely do more. So I look forward to introducing the plans if we take care of one place and try the regular work that it is now and see what we have to do to change it so that we can achieve better results. Finally, I would like to thank the members of the Ministry, the travel office, for the work done.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-17-21.u56	V.E.G. President. V.E.G. President. I would like to recommend a bill to legalize the annual bill, No. 3/2006, with subsequent changes, on deck. 139, No. 139. The main changes proposed in the bill are changes in the range 7 and 109. each year's bill. It opens the possibility that any society with greater interest in foreign funding or business organizations can negotiate annual accounts in English, which should be translated into Icelandic and published in a annual balance sheet in English and Icelandic. It is important that the annual bill be published so that the business life and those who rely on the financial information of their partners have access to it and that the information is available in a language understood by the majority of the people. The bill is presented in order to explain the requirements for the text of the annual account, both the members of the company and the partners of the annual bill. Details on the obligation of enterprises to negotiate and publish annual accounts in Icelandic countries have been received from foreign partners with a high level of activity paid by foreign currency, who were previously authorized to negotiate annual accounts in English. There have also been indications from Iceland's Business Council, Remuneration Council, and the legal accountant's partner, who are encouraged to change the regulations of Article 7. current law, where it is considered burdensome for Icelandic organizations that settle in foreign currency, operate in international environments, or have foreign rulers. Likewise, it is important to protect the English language. We are now putting several hundred million people in an effort to protect it, certainly in the eyes of technology and so forth, but it matters. As shown by the Icelandic and Icelandic Sign Language Act, No. 61/2011, when the national language in common with the national authorities, it should ensure that it can be used in all areas of Icelandic national life. Hence, it is important that annual accounts be published in a monthly bill, so that business life and those who rely on this information have access to it and are in the language understood by the majority of the people. It is therefore important that you access the annual accounts of your colleagues in Icelandic. However, there should not be any barrier to good work in the international environment and to the use of English in the preparation of annual accounts. That's why the change is here. The government's covenant shows that free and open international transactions are an advantage for small open economy and increase their prosperity. The transition in the bill is in line with improving the international business environment of partners. It is suggested that the law be obtained when a valid and effective accounting year begins on January 1, 2017, or later. If the bill remains unchanged that the law is not expected to affect the survival of a government fund, but surely the company will have to deposit costs to translate annual accounts if it is won in English. I'm fully aware of that. V.E.G. President. After the discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee for discussion.
