ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-25-55.u1	Borist has a letter from the financial and economic secretary asking for every appointment to give a written answer to a letter on the spell. 729, on public work outside the capital area, from the Halla of Signý's Kristjánsdóttir. A letter has also been received from the minister of foreign affairs asking for every request to provide a written answer to a covering query. 384, for the ministers and for the driver, from Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-25-55.u2	A respectable president. I'm thinking about our kids. There may be nothing new about the woman here talking about the children, but I just can't help because they are so much of my heart. The sad situation today is that many of them get involved in addiction and are having difficulty in our community. They are on a long wait list for a solution to their drug problems. More importantly, they die on this waiting list. Many of them die on this waiting list. I'm not saying all, a respectable president, it's a loan that doesn't, but each one of them is one too many. The sad thing is, I'm taking it to myself, which one of the lawyers will I take to myself, that we won't take more aggressively, we'll come in with prevention and destroy these checks, and we'll take care of the one who's worked properly here, called the U.S.A. That we don't give enough money to spend these models, that we don't show our will and that now we're going to enter the summer, on vacation, the senators on the beach, expected, while our young people will still be at home dying on the streets. I call for something radical to do in the language of our young people, in the case of our addicts, before we take a beach on vacation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-25-55.u3	Mr. President. In the first days of the government, the Supreme Court declared: The minister of health said that the government was here to save the health system, no less. The first actions of the government indicate that a minister was full of talk, and I was full of vision. At the return of financial programs, the government gave tens of millions of dollars. While an increase in financial programmes is certainly not enough. More money for hospital service is enough to meet the population's growing tourists and aging. In fact, in many places the foundations are beginning to drenched, and they were rotten. A financial minister does not make room for the legitimate demands of a midwives. The government seems not interested in ensuring agreements about home care. Contracts with the cancer community that performs the screening for breast and cervical cancer in the summer. The company of Caitas, who has served as a nursing service for people with chronic and incurable diseases, will have to close in the fall. Nursing homes have not been satisfied with management funds, and there are uncertainty of the procedure. Young addicts find it difficult to receive appropriate treatment, and hundreds of thinkers are living in uncertainty where 55 million are unable to interpolate. K. to ensure that service. The same is true of mental - health professionals ◯ Following a course of follow-up. Mr. President. I know it's the highest. Minister would like it well, but wouldn't he be fully developed in cooperation with the Independence Party for a major health offense? A good public health system is one of the most precious shares anyone could have. That's why I'm waiting. Councilmen are now working hard with Ministers and making the changes to income and pay financial programs that are enough for this press conference.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-25-55.u4	A respectable president. I'm going to call attention to a case that filled news lesson last week, i.e. The icicle on Sogni in Alfuss. The truth is, when that man escaped from prison, his guard was expired and the authorities were to release the man without any delay. It is clear in law and constitution that no one should deprive him of freedom except by law. The Supreme Court discussed a similar case in March 2013, where a man was held after an ongoing custody session while waiting for a new judge's decision. The court's firm conclusion was that he had been held without legal authority and had violated the clear instructions of the Constitution and that the court, as it was said, was extremely serious. So when man left Sogn, he had a requirement to be free. I'm not making a general decision that if they think they're out of police custody, there's a few more points I'd like to point out. It is reported that man has not been accused of violence. There is also the possibility that the case is still under investigation, and charges have not been issued. Auggly was quoted in the media, and as a result, it was announced to all major international legal institutions worldwide. Of course, such actions are very burdensome and, in view of all the circumstances in the case that I have here briefly tore in the highest ways of abnormal conduct and merely unconcerned. This person will not have been considered dangerous and therefore difficult to see that this progress in the matter serves the public interests. I believe, in view of the Supreme Court's Supreme Court, which was mentioned earlier, to examine the method of action in such cases, to present a requirement for custody and its timing, in time before the decision expires, the shape of a fugitive or a suspect, and the general follow-up of this kind, and especially, in particular, to learn from a huge rebuke on the part of the highest court of the country. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-25-55.u5	Mr. President. Transport and improvements in that area are one of the major issues we face and need to be taken firmly. In many places, there is a fear - inspiring situation, especially here at the southwest corner. There is much to discuss the need to complete a double Rhine Way, and that is exactly the case. In my opinion, however, it is an empty matter to talk about finishing it before being released through Hafnarfjördur and Gardur. The people of Hafnarfjörður and Garðað can no longer live under the same conditions. In order to reduce the risk of accidents and to improve the quality of life of the population, economic and economic activities that pay permanent attention to these two societies are profitable. The government and the Supreme Government. Strategic transport ministers have not been very clear on their transport plans. The only thing that can be read from what has been said is that big attendance is ahead. At the same time, it is difficult to see evidence of a financial application. It has then been informed that the process of transportation will not be published until the fall. They need and should look to lasting solutions. At both locations, watch to put round in stock. The telephone call morning traffic at Setberg, Hafnarfjörður, in Reykjavík, is approaching the bus weight of the year. The round square has two lanes, and it leaves an average of less than 50 of you. car (s) 24 hours. More recently, the use of the ringorg has resulted in increased, unwanted traffic weight and speed within the area of the apartment. The harbor road splits traffic vessels in Gardour City. It has suggested that the Hafnarfjörður Road will be put in a box from Laundromat to Littleun, while the old Hafnarfjörður Road will remain the road to the town of Gardur. The solutions that seem to be on the table on the side of the government and the Road Type are insufficient in comparison with those of the groundwaters. This must be thought of in permanent solutions rather than in constant butts and temporary solutions. [[The president calls.]] These projects are no longer tolerated. They will have to be attacked, and as a result, the double Rhine Way can be completed. [[The president calls.]] I challenge the highest. Government and supreme. A secretary of transportation to immediately begin these projects and put them first. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-25-55.u6	Mr. President. ▪ Then I have the Teoria, says prímus Jón, to Umbi in a Christian bed under a glacier, to say that water is good. We are a rich nation of resources, Icelanders, and the water is among them. I'd like to use this opportunity to call attention to a few questions I have directed to the minister of water protection in the capital area. The answers are coming, teaching various grasses. It has been reported that the amount of toxic matter that has been driven through Southland, the Sandfanda, and the Hellishrague are not known, past and near the water - protection zone of the capital area at the Heathermark. The toxic substances involved here are fuel, artificial fertilizer, various toxic substances used in job activity, and other hazardous cargo. The annual number of travel and the number of transport devices are unknown. It has also been observed that the amount of toxic chemicals transported through an apartment area in the capital area has not been known. The traffic of cars and near the water - protection zones has grown rapidly. In answer, the secretary has reported that according to health monitoring data, no studies on the effects on the quality of water intake from tire - beating vehicles and other contaminating vehicles have been performed in the area of the capital area. I must ask: In view of the above pollution risks, what reasons are there for not studying water quality? An accident or an accident near the water pool could pull long trails behind them. We have a rich obligation to be careful and to provide clean water and wholesome food for people.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-25-55.u7	A respectable president. Yesterday, a new report was introduced, made for the Commission's Association of Adventists on their ideal managers, their stockbrokers, which seems to be becoming more creative and creative. This report includes the following: up to ten of the most paid directors have between 7 and 8 million. K. per month. It will be questionable to think that it reflects the ever-growing properties of the individual. Rather, it is here often a business built up after a collapse for public funds from banks and pension funds. Mischange is always bad in itself. Injustice is always wrong. These payouts are a sign of waste. It's bad for a job when so much money goes to a few people, and it's bad when it comes to the temptation to be more attractive to a company to increase its pay. It is bad for humans themselves when they count their worth in the millions. It is also bad for society as a whole to see that there are overchanges. The feeling disappears, and the infrastructure rots. The Memorial doctrine has never passed the test of reality. The preeminent class speaks disparagingly of a dolphin's race when working people want a fair salary for their work or try to force a better general standard of living. The directors seem to think they're in some whole other country, maybe the land itself, and in their special fat-ass race. But it is not. It is them, the directors, the leading scholars in SA, who continue to impose the demands of other classes by their incorruption. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-25-55.u8	A respectable president. During the last Monday, a convention was held at the University of Peoples in Iceland, the Norwegian house. At the conference, there were three members, the LungA School, now serving for five years in Sufjörður, the People's University of Flats, who plan to start operations for the next fall and the Icelandic Youth Association, with plans for the establishment of a public school on Lake Saturday. In fact, there is an organization of public schools in Iceland. At the conference, a number of interesting developments were presented. That, in fact, was discussed. Chairman of the Danish Institute for Public College on the Experience in Public Colleges elsewhere in the North countries and the translation of schools for individuals and society. It noted that studies show that studies at public schools reduce the drop of students from formal studies and that students may be more likely to complete formal higher education. People's university, however, does not appeal only to disfellowshipped students. In many places students who are successful in the traditional school system have the opportunity to expand their horizons and to become more aware of their own strengths and interests through high school. There is a void in the Icelandic educational system in this regard. Despite the discussions over a hundred years ago, people's schools have not been regularly operated. Still, it is proper to say that regional school activities were based on some of the ideologies of public college and while working in various ways comparable to experience and development within their walls. After they passed away, there is a void in the learning and development systems of young people in Iceland where people's schools could fill in. As we know, the General Assembly of 2016 agreed to hide the Ministry of Education and Culture to provide a general law on public education in Iceland. [[The president calls.]] I want the Ministry and Minister to speed that work up.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-25-55.u9	A respectable president. April 9th. asked him. paritaprevir Guðmundur Igngi Kristinsson, the highest. Department of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, not prepared for inquiry, about taking half a pension from the state's insurance agency. The minister answered that inquiry with the words, with the permission of the president: I'd like to say here that on the way is a matter, if it's not arrived at the council, it's on the way, to make changes, and to prevent the cracks that are there. A senator came in. In view of the progress of the government at the time, I did not believe that a minister was telling the truth. That's why I sent a request about when this case would have begun in the Ministry. Yesterday, I received an answer by permission of a president: On April 9, the National Association of older citizens, the workforce organization, and the National Department of Pension Funds met. in which the issue was discussed in detail, with the beginning of the case at that date. The meeting with stakeholders was at the time. 14 of April 9. It's a matter of time. paritaprevir The Guðmundur of Ingi, the son of Kristinsson, were one and a half hours later. During that one - and - a - half - hour period, the matter was being on the way to the council, if not at the council to show up in the words of the minister. Obviously, it's not true, and it's also so pointless that it's not true. One minister boasts that he has solved the problem as a matter of course. In spite of all the facts, a senator points out that the information he gives to the council from this platform is not correct. It would have been so easy to say that earlier that during the day, interests would have started to change the exact matter. So I have to ask, since it is so easy to lie about such meaningless things, where is the line of honesty in other matters with the Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-25-55.u10	Mr. President. Today, the organization released a report on the index of freedom of the media by 2018, and the results of this world's media freedoms are bleak, as attacks against the media, both physically and in the form of governmental oppression, are persistent and serious. The situation is also bleak, since Iceland is moving down three places, leaving a seat 10 from 2016 to a seat 13 and sitting at the bottom of the continents. This is a concern for us because the media play a key role in public information and in supporting us. Last January. handed over a committee on the environment of the individual media. Education and cultural minister suggestions to improve their business conditions. That's where even the two of them come from. until governments in the North countries count it their duty, on the basis of the declaration of their Constitutional law, to promote freedom of expression and freedom of expression by direct and indirect support of the free media. Sadly, this is not the case, for although the media market has been experiencing major changes in recent years, there are ways in which we can support the media in comparable ways that have gone decades ago. In fact, the mass balance of the media has changed much and free and democratic media coverage is a threat to the loss of income that the media have had to endure. While we are faced with an urgent need for reform in the media's environment, while falling down the list of media freedoms is the highest. The Minister of Education is not responding. There is no way to show the democratic role of the media. I call for some serious action, and I call for real support to the media in Iceland. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-25-55.u11	Mr. President. In what way is our community really on the road? the question that a nation and its council should ask themselves these days. Let's review seven facts: 1st Only 26 bankers, who work most at the Bank, receive $1 billion in wages, one tenth of what this government is about to put in all the national child reforms. 2. The directors of the Icelandic Wall Street Prizes have an annual salary of one to two million dollars per week. - In a week, Mr. President. 3. Directors, including executives of state companies, have been receiving monthly increases in pay of the entire month's pay of a midwife. 4. The Council of Congress, including members of Parliament, rose by tens of percent in pay from year to year. 5. A developer goes out last week with 22 points. A million. K. In my pocket, because of the use of the nation's common resource. 6th 1% of the population owns more pure property than 80% of the Icelanders. 7. About half of all the clean possessions created in 2016 were absorbed by a top 10% of the population. Of course, people are to reap what they sow. But not midwives, nor do teachers, policemen, and older citizens do so. In addition, these obscenities have nothing in common with the goal of doing well with highly responsible employees. Mr. President. We are one nation in this country. But here it is developing a self-employment class of super-employers, who with unbridled greed and poor judgment seem not to be merely leaving the community. Rather, the whole community is upset about the coming dress interview. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-25-55.u12	Mr. President. During the autumn months of 2016, the General Assembly agreed to authorize the government to validate the United Nations Convention on Infirm People. On that same occasion, the General Assembly concluded that a selective addition to the contract would be validated by the end of 2017. The full value of this Annex has not yet been in April 2018. In addition, there is an increase in the number of lawsuits for individuals and groups that feel that the Icelandic government has not granted them the right to the agreement. The social network is possible after people have taken advantage of the resources they have under Icelandic law to achieve what they feel they have the right to deal with the agreement. In validation of the selection of the annex, a more effective partnership will be made with the states to enforce the contract. More and more, the rightfulness of disabled persons becomes more and their human rights more protected. Of course, it would be best for the General simply to legalize the contract of disabled people, as the 2013 Convention made with the 2013 Children's Rights Convention. With legal assurances, the human rights of disabled persons would be the best of loyalty. This would result in increased protection, and its rightfulness would greatly increase. The legalisation of the agreement would send a message to the public, the administration, and to all the bodies dealing with the issues of disabled persons on the issues of respect expected to be shown to disabled persons in the state of justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-25-55.u13	V.E.G. President. The EEA Convention written on January 1, 1994, is 24 years old this year and has had a very important and positive effect on Icelandic employment. It has been called after a review of him from certain sources and the responsibilities of the Generals are great, but are the generals always fully informed when they vote for these matters? The council has a bill on the legal establishment from what? paritaprevir Árnadóttir Kolbröndóttir, who is thought of to ensure proper legal guidance for the nation. The bill has been transferred several times before it had a progress so far. I have received e - mails and phone calls from professional drivers who have been taking courses that have been held five weekends in a row. Each course costs about 20,000 bucks. This was turned into law a few years ago, incorporated from the EEA. The introduction stated that this did not apply to island land, but it became a law against the article. They mean that it's not really any good because it doesn't apply to Icelandic conditions. I also think of the roads and the delivery security of electrical energy. Then I'm not thinking about the EEA, I'm thinking about the charges and lawsuits. It's, for example. It's not good to think of a road that hasn't made it yet. [[The president calls.]] It's been 12 years since it was ready for action, and nothing has happened. It may be said that the Council failed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-25-55.u14	A respectable president. Some people feel that paying income tax, earning money, and taking taxes is absolutely unfair. That's what I understand. I disagree, but I understand. There are people in this country who earn and have to pay with them. It is a microchip that suffers from a so - called dollar in return when income may cause damage in two places, a 100% impairment, and a decrease in other stocks as well. I think that everyone must be able to agree that there is an injustice. Pirantics have provided a bill, with the initiatives of its fine party, to reduce this loss considerably. There is also some sort of cost assessment that might be updated, but we are talking about numbers around 10▪11 billion. The people's party, the noble category, and, indeed, the Piratars, with a change in plans in their time, also suggested that social security pensions not interfere with the fact that older ones would have employment income. The cost back there, the numbers are a little bit confused by when you speak them - as well as recent changes to be taken into account - that is, one and a half billion, perhaps one and a half. It's the scale we're talking about. There is now a financial programme to reduce the underdevelopment of the income tax by 1%. That's 14 billion. I'd like to ask about priorities. This is a real injustice. We can compare it with a very minor injustice in my opinion, which is a income tax; we cannot be told that it is impossible for us to correct the injustice of the social security system. A model jungle of injustice has I not seen in a lawbook, and if it were available at the Council to fix it, we might find it easier to do so by means of our current financial program.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-25-55.u15	Mr. President. Budget expenses are being added to health care and are well cared for. However, there should not be a goal in itself to add solely the funding to the system, the system must be useful to all who need assistance regardless of the economy in the most efficient way. However, there are still patients who go abroad for relief although the same measures are offered in a country that is more practical at the same time. We also hear from individual and private initiatives to form mental health and home care support that does not appear to be achieved in the eyes of the system, a system that may be too often presented in advance. Sadly, the personal enterprise seems to be a frequent failure, even some kind of fear of personal success, which has been an essential part of our health - care system for decades. However, this has been during public discussion before being confused with personal development. President. It is a privilege to live in a land where there is a parapolitic agreement to want to provide excellent health care for everyone regardless of the economy. There's a lot of opportunities to do that. Recently, the government pointed out that there was a need for a complete medical policy, and the Ministry has proclaimed that such a policy will be made. It is wish that in that work any political trial will be left to itself and guided only by the system, no matter how it's combined, will benefit.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-25-55.u16	President. I'd like to discuss something related to the council's work, which is the time crisis in which the council is entering with the vast array of cases that are entering an assembly out of government range. They are being overrun at high speed throughout the council, both in conferences and in committees. There's one huge case that's said to be coming, but I've not yet come to know. There is a new law on personal protection and the implementation of the European Commission. Clearly, the effects on both individuals and professional life are significant. And it is minimalness toward the council to give the council a proper time to discuss this important matter and to review all its subjects carefully and also give a proper time to relate such matters. We have heard very little about it here in the councilroom, except that it is consistently announced that it should take effect on May 25. I don't quite see how it's gonna work out. I'm advertising this excellent bill from the Minister of Justice. I don't think the council will provide of the time we have now until it's scheduled the end of the council in order to cover as much impact as this one. It follows that it is important to work on the European joint market that these legislation will be implemented on time and well. We need time to do what is right. It is, in fact, completely unannounced that the matter is going to be as late as it really is, when it is such a huge case that the Senate will simply have to have a good time to go over.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-25-55.u17	A respectable president. The need for extramarital services and the need for professional health care is increasing. So I want to start by thanking the highest. Healthcare Minister for treating the situation well and agree to this special discussion on outpatient and hospital transport. The importance, role, and challenges of extramarital services have increased steadily over the last few years. The population is growing in all over the country, and the number of tourists is returning to the country. People are, therefore, much more scattered throughout our vast land, doing a wide variety of activities in employment or recreation. Of course, this increases the number of events in which something unexpected, such as an accident and illness, occurs away from hospitals. Hospitals and health care do not have as many activities as they used to, and with increasing expertise in emergency treatment, there will be the ability to cope with accidents and acute illness throughout the country. This trend is not just happening in Iceland. The countries around us know these challenges, of caring for health services in more remote areas. Thus, rapid and rapid development has been seen in providing immediate attention to medical care as the first contact of patients with the health system. How and how quickly that service is performed can make a difference in the survival and quality of life of the sick and the injured. It also counts how soon the person gets into the hospital for further treatment. I have to say, at the moment, I feel that this group has been generally given little attention to the government and may even be said that he has forgotten a few chapters. That's not available anymore. Perhaps it is because our powerful people who do this work, always show up, and live on the scene when they call 112 with their ideal for weapons, which makes all this system work. As the situation is today, we have an out-of-home surgeon at only 50% status. An eco-efficiency provider does not have the opportunity to perform the intended role, that is, without financial resources, and there is no driver from scattered sites. The hospital transportation school is one of the standard values and is full of reports, but no policy. There is a lack of a strong, collective setting. A respectable president. You can do so much, much better in this group of languages, and that's what we're going to do. We must put out - of - hospital services in the same seat as other targeted health care services. In this policy, this service needs to be handled and extramium, the quality of registration, education and training and security of employees, the use of the latest technologies and equipment. We have models in the countries all around us that are right to be used. It is also necessary to make sure that the variety of voices is heard by those doing this service today. A special talk could be given here for each of these. In particular, I would like to mention two things that could push us far ahead in order to improve our ministry and provide all the people of the country with the best health care possible, regardless of their location. One is to set up an institution, or center, to carry out the seminary and to work on the quality and harmony of the service across the country, the center for outpatient services. The other is of no less importance than the use of a specialized medical helicopter designed by a qualified physician and emergency technology, as well as by pilots. All the countries we want to compare with the use of hospital choppers to get special health care ready and safely on the field to make sure that special treatment is started immediately. Short durations of response and specific medical treatment on the scene are crucial to serious accidents and acute respiratory, cardiovascular, or cerebral disorders such as atherothrombotic events and strokes. The reaction we have today would also reduce the number of cases where the reactents would be removed from the region while the patient was being taken to the hospital. The helicopter will not replace any ambulance but will strengthen it, reduce stress, and ensure a better response. So I want to ask the highest. Healthcare Minister: Is there a special policy limit for extramarital services in expected medical transport? Are there any changes intended for the group planning and outdoor such as changes in the composition of the medical care committee, increasing the status of the head of the outside hospital service, or forming a special center for outside the hospital service? Is there work on the reports and assessments made during the past few years in the field outside hospital services for the group's organization, training staff, and the use of specialized hospital choppers? [[The president calls.]] Is it intended to adopt a temporary test project to operate a special patient helicopter as a help in ensuring access to best available health care? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-25-55.u18	A respectable president. Thank you. Árnason Will, for the start of this discussion, attend the meeting and address the important aspects of health care that the out - of - hospital service really is. As mentioned by the advocate, there is a need for extramarital services, i.e. Emergency transport, progressively increasing in recent years. In recent years, more than the previous year, specialized health care has moved to the Hospital, the Akureyri Hospital, and a special clinic. Thus, citizens of the country have often had to seek services far from their homes at the expense and often the discomfort it can cause. In October it was. appointed my predecessor to the office of the health minister of the staff of the six medical institutions, the two hospitals, and the health care of the capital area for specialist medical care in medical institutions. The role of the group was to identify what expert services are when providing in the regional health institutions, in the form of such services, and in the cooperation of the institutions. They were then assigned to determine the preferred services to be performed in the National Institutes of Health and how it would be best to ensure patient access to that service. Recently, at the Management Board's Office and the executive director's office, it was discussed what special services should be performed in the national health institutions and the role of the Hospital and Hospital in Akureyri should be in that service. I mention it here because with this work the idea is to bring some specialized health care to the people rather than they go to the ministry. With more health care in the country, the need for medical transportation is reduced. I would also like to mention my emphasis on making better use of the medical facilities available in the country by preparing people for homes after surgery at the National Hospital or the Akureyri Hospital. By doing so, health institutions can be strengthened so that the benefits for the people who get home sooner or later are not spoken of. The result is already visible in the increase seen in medical flights from Land Hospital. Since 2014, the number of patients who have taken medical flights from Land Hospital to the medical field of health care has nearly doubled. A respectable president. Hv. An advisor also mentions extra strain on out - of - hospital services as the number of tourists in the country is increasing. According to damage line data, about 4% of the hospital transports in 2017 were due to foreign citizens, as well as to which citizens in another 5% were not known to have enough numbers of characters. It is clear, therefore, that a significant proportion of the treatment transport comes from tourists. In the southern part of the country, the number of calls for hospital transport increased by 4.8% between 2016 and 2017. In 2017, the percentage of foreign citizens in hospital transportation was 10.7%, and in one South country alone in 2017, there were 600,000 miles [600,000 km]. The extracurricular services, therefore, are already increasing in the field of health care. A respectable president. Hv. The advocate specifically asked about some of the factors related to outpatient service. First, the question was, Would this service be possible? To answer, over the past few weeks, a team has examined the potential benefits, professional and financial benefits of increasing Iceland's Marine Department for Disease Control inland. The group has also considered alternative measures for hospital flights, including helicopters. Based on proposals presented in the report of the Precaution of a medical transfer from June 2017. I expect the report and suggestions of the staff very soon. I've already declared that as a result, I will initiate a full reexamination of an all-time medical transport plan in this country. Hv. Second, a senator asks if there is any change in the order of the party's organization and outdoors, including a change in the composition of the medical staff and an increase in the status of the head of an outside hospital service. The factors mentioned by the senator will be part of the overall review I mentioned earlier. However, in particular, I would like to state that the NTSB representatives have visited me and expressed their interest in being more active in the planning of medical transportation. Rescue teams play an important role out-of-home service here. They are often the first ones in the field of accidents or other calls, whether in the role of field soldiers or in the upper country being called out. I'll even. emphasise the implementation of land reimbursement in the upcoming revision. Third, the senator asks whether there is a basis for the reports and assessments made during the past few years on the field community services, staff education, and the use of a specialized hospital helicopter. In January 2008, a panel of health - care agencies in Iceland returned an order for the then health - care minister. These suggestions were re-evaluated in 2012. However, in view of the changes that have taken place in recent years together with health institutions in the country, the proposals made have been prepared. An ambulance school has been expelled as a unit in the Hospital in Akureyri since 2002. The purpose and purpose of the school is to organize, manage, and educate patients in basic education, higher education, and ever - increasing education. In recent years a full reexamination of hospital transfers studies has been carried out in a well-communicated approach to the emergency transport board. The school's scope has increased in recent years as there is an increased need for medical transportation. For example, the total number of subjects in the hospital transfer school course went from 282 to 2016 in 725 subjects in 2017. The last question asked by the advisor is whether a temporary test project is intended to be undertaken to operate a special medical helicopter to ensure national access to the best available health care services, regardless of the home. As I mentioned earlier in my reply, at the coming moment, I will be suggested by a working group, including a group. has been examining the potential benefits of operating a specialised hospital patient. In discussions with the use of such helicopters in this country, one has been most likely to shorten the time of exodus, to ensure that a sick or injured person reaches a specialised hospital or that expert staff will first reach the injured or sick. All of us realize that responding times can make a difference in the outcome of individuals who have suffered a brain injury or a heart attack or a serious injury. A respectable president. I have stressed that regardless of the population, even as possible the access of all the people of the country to a more specialized health care facility is maintained. That's where extracurricular services are very important. The budget of the 2019,2023 set out the goal that 90% of cases will include an F1 emergency call and an F2 in rural work within 20 minutes of the call. These goals I would like to achieve with my cooperation with all the health care providers coming in this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-25-55.u19	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. Vilhjálmur the Aarson's Árnason for setting up this important matter. We must be able to trust that extramarital services are strong and secure. In this way we need to ensure that both those working within it and training are as good as possible and that in the case of serious illness or accidents, they can provide adequate assistance. One of the most important aspects of this setting is the need to establish an electronic registry in patients so that central unity can be established. A saying came in earlier, thus ensuring medical supervision from outside hospital services. Then there could be hospital transporters anywhere in the country who could contact with projects and seek counselling on continued treatment or guidance and even make a decision to extract a hospital plane or helicopter much sooner than usual today. Mr. President. In turn, the Fire Department of Akureyri for the past few years has been serving the Hospital in Akureyri with a so-called interim transfer under Akureyri City Convention and Iceland's Medical Insurance on Medical Transportation. Now it's time for a contract between Iceland's Medical Insurance and the Akureyri Trade Places to arrive and the Akureyri fire will stop giving this service starting May 1st. if you don't get paid contracts. According to Eiríkur Björgvinsson's letter, Mayor of Akureyri, to the head of the Hospital in Akureyri, a day. On February 22, 2000, the fire department in Akureyri wants to continue this service. These intermediate transports are no less important than emergency transport, but they bring patients to the South to a more specialized hospital, but also reduce land hospitals by moving patients to the north. I'd like to take advantage of this opportunity because we're talking about an ambulance and we're asking the highest level. Healthcare Minister on the status of this case and on whether or not to resolve it and close the contracts or to the highest level of the agreements. A minister sees that the matter will be solved in another way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-25-55.u20	A respectable president. I would like to thank an advisor for bringing this enormously important matter to the attention, but the role and challenges in outpatient and medical care are something that has not received enough of the attention of health services and has been brought together from more scattered settlements to the capital area. I have worked as a patient pilot and have been well acquainted with my own experience with the urgent need for service there. A respectable president. In recent years the number of calls in hospital flights has increased dramatically. It is so that in the past ten years, their calls have increased by 25% and last year to about 200 calls per year, and the remaining ones at the National Guard at more than 80 calls. It is necessary to build even more a national medical flight because the national high - tech hospital is located in Reykjavík. After all, half of the nation - or more - lives on the so - called land. This service needs access. We are simply small enough to be able to run just one high-tech hospital. A medical flight is twofold. So one is used on fast - running airplanes equipped with isotonic equipment, while on helicopters. The properties of these devices are very different, and maybe it's a big deal going on here. It's my opinion that the medical flight is in the custody of the National Reservation Guard. There is experience, knowledge, training, extramarital and infrastructure, as well as the possibility that such services could be guaranteed. There would be a great improvement for a more specialized hospital chopper, as mentioned here, but it must be borne in mind that there the business, training, and extramarital care must be placed in the hands of a member of the community. In connection with this, consider the location of the high - tech hospital, now attached to the Watermy Island. It should be possible to get patients to and from the hospital. [[The president calls.]] But since it is now located and where the government's plan is to have it for the whole future, simply because it will not be possible on helicopters.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-25-55.u21	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the advisor, huh? paritaprevir Willmi Árnason, this discussion. Thank you so much. Minister for the answers. That's right, which was shown in the case of the two. A senator, who has been in recent years, reports that services are being performed at fewer locations in the scattered areas. Such shifts can be attributed back to time; this has been developing and occurring in several stages, including together with health institutions. This has been developing into a mental state. A senator describes an increasing number of specialations and services. If an excellent financial programme is violated, a substantial amount of money is being placed on the whole topic field. If you examine the change from the 2016 State Calculation to Plan 2019, the increase is 28.4%. The subject, however, takes on a measure of increase. However, hospital transport involves about 5.5% of the total budget, and this is not expected to be a fair comparison since there is a significant overall increase in the topic area and health care campaigns. I welcome what was presented in the case of the highest. Minister, to re-evaluate the population's special services, thereby reducing the pressures of transport, I think it's a very promising way, as well as to re-evaluate an overall search of medical transport systems that also appear in the budget plan 2019/2023.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-25-55.u22	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you for saying something, okay? paritaprevir Vilhjálmur, Árnason, for bringing up the matter of this important matter. With Icelanders, we live in one of the most remote parts of the world. As a result, it may be both difficult and costly to support hospital transport services in more remote areas. However, it is clear from the very same reason that if we are going to be here with a health system that is under the name of the health system of all the people of the country, we need to have a strong and efficient medical transportation system. It is better than it should be said how important it is for professionals to deal with situations as soon as possible after an accident or an emergency illness occurs. That can make a difference. Short attention span and specific reactions are key. Hv. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason did well here on key points to be considered and to the highest. A minister answered and reviewed the current issues. Besides, I'd like to be curious about the plans for re-education and the training of the medical staff. Since there have been significant changes in not so many years, hospital transporters are not responsible solely for their transport; they are trained by health professionals in the early reactions to accidents and acute illness. The requirements for these partners for ability and knowledge associated with early reactions have increased substantially over the past few years, including with organizational changes and then with a growing number of tourists, as has been done well here. I ask, I think it's the highest. A minister needs further emphasis in order to increase his education or training? Generally, there is a complaint about few opportunities to re-educate. Then there are problems in smaller places where people do part - time work, and it does not really require them to go away from home for long periods of hard study and perhaps even a cost of it themselves. So I ask: What resources are available according to the health minister's opinion to meet this challenge? How do we deal with these issues in the strategy and policy? Could it be possible to use the advantage of remotests here or such? I would love to know the answer to that question because I think it will make a big difference along with an increased investment in the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-25-55.u23	President. In recent years, medical and medical services have been discussed, and I rejoice that this discussion has entered the council. Among other things, there have been discussions of the effects large numbers of tourists may have on the health system. This adds to the pressures of the health system and increases the population and tourists'growth is a fact that we need to respond. Sadly, foreign travelers on the road to the country are often injured or in need of health care. How important it is that we make sure that right and certain response to this added burden will be made to our health - care providers! This summer is the most crowded summer season, which is the time when many health - care workers are on vacation. Clearly, then, there is a work that requires immediate action. These factors are discussed in the current government financial program for the treatment of the council. Among other things, it is defined as the aim of a patient transport that in 90% of cases emergency calls in rural areas will be performed within 20 minutes of a call that is a very worthwhile goal. Achieving access to patients throughout the country as well as the services of expert physicians is also a goal. Actions to be taken to answer these problems include Reorganisation of hospital transport and overall health policy. These actions are clearly part of reaching these goals. President. I am stressing my hope that new health policies will lead to bringing all its members to good, population, and tourists, both in rural areas and in urban areas, since all of us have the right to good and urgent health care.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-25-55.u24	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you for saying something, okay? paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason, for bringing up this fundamental interest in the country, would most likely count. We know what has been in the country how important it is to be able to consult a doctor quickly and safely and to have immediate help, to be professional, and to be placed under the right hands as soon as possible. Of course, I'm happy that there is going to be a renewed and growing number of land - care helicopters and that it is very important, but in the case of the treatment transport itself, there has been a very high strain in the recent years in the number of aid workers in the country after this tremendous increase in tourists. It is important that we cooperate with this class of men, hospital officials, and that is in cooperation with the government. Last of all, Hunish Lakes had to work on whether or not they were doing some work. It is naturally unacceptable, and this language group must be properly restored. I agree with what. A advocate when he calls for a whole range of compromises and policies in the litigation group. I agree with him there. I put a question mark on Landsbourg's involvement in medical transportation and whether to start saving something by letting her step in the gap as often as she wants to be. I'll put a big question mark on it. I call on the fact that this will be done professionally and will not compromise any demands for education or training. Finally, I would like to point out that the network of medical vehicles and medical personnel around the country is, of course, necessary. This ministry is sometimes very waiting. If you land, for example. He may have to wait for two hours, as I saw two or three years ago. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-25-55.u25	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you very much for taking up this conversation today. This is an extremely important matter. I have for many years, here at the General Assembly and long before I came to the council, called out for what the government's policy would be for outside hospital services and hospital transportation to the State. I've never felt anything about how they're gonna do it. It's so amazing when we're planning the health system in Iceland, that it's not clear how you're going to figure out how these things are so important to the country around and around the country in Iceland. 85% of the air transport today has medical planes, 15% of the Landland Guard helicopters. That's the ratio. This is national security. Then I'd like to point out what I've feared most in the safety of the Icelanders in the past few years, i.e. when the bus crash is over. The major bus accident, which may be serious at the same time, may result in serious injury. We have the Land Hospital, which can take over 25 seriously injured and the Akureyri hospital, which can take over five injured. This is in the best of conditions, 30 people in our specialized hospitals. Thereafter, people will be moved out of the country, to the neighboring countries. Apparently, I don't get very far during this brief period of time over my points, but I just want to point out a report written on the security role of the head of the United States Department of Transport last year by Þorgeir Pálsson, who wrote to the Ministry of Transport last year, on the role of the Reykjavík airport and on the role of security in the field of health care. It would be nice to hear some answers from a minister to my questions. Is there a policy facing outdoor hospital services and hospital transports from the state of the country and/or is available to achieve such a report if there is no such thing?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-25-55.u26	Mr. President. I want to welcome this discussion, since I believe that a powerful outside hospital service is an important step to ensure the safety of us in most parts of the country. I also think it's important what was said in reply to the highest degree. Minister that we must promote the education of those who are involved in medical transportation, i.e. the number of selected emergency joints. It is best that, as most of the workers in the medical profession, they are trained by emergency personnel and are located in most parts of the country. It is often a long way to go to the nearest clinic. Sadly, though the trend in the country was that traditional health services have declined in many parts of the country, we must not give up. So I especially welcome what was presented in the Sermon on the Mount. Health Ministers at the Ministry are working to promote health facilities in the country by using the medical facilities in the area that are there and allow people to complete their living in the area. I believe that by doing so, we strengthen health institutions in many lands. But I will give a warning to one thing, to look upon him who is in need as a solution for all. They can no doubt make much better sense, but I think there may be a lot of optimism that they can get rid of medical vehicles properly, where there is often a long way to go. A little depends on where the Med Center is located, and it takes some time to go. Besides, we also have to think about the cost. The cost of an orderly helicopter must not be related to any other necessary activity. I welcome, in particular, to what is stated in the government budget of 20191⁄223 where the target is set for 90% of emergency callers in rural areas within 20 minutes. I think if we succeed, we'll save a lot of lives.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-25-55.u27	Mr. President. First, I want to thank you for this discussion, which is important and needed. Among the aims of health care laws, all the country has the opportunity to provide the most advanced medical care available at any given time. Hospital transports turn to the security of the population and thus to the national dwelling conditions. The 90 - year - old history of the Red Cross in an ambulance is nearing its end, at the highest decision. Healthcare Minister, and there seems to be no future plan. A fair resolve at the Red Cross is not in sight, and it is a cause of concern. For the purpose of the treatment of acute patients and injured patients, a Precautions on the use of helicopters in this country compiled in a prior report. The report included introduced to members of Parliament and local government in the southern part of the country. To me, that presentation was most interesting and measured by a closer look at it. Norwegians are well experienced in such helicopters, where roads are on steep slopes and conditions for landing are bad. In some situations, hospital helicopters are more suitable for emergency transport and are less expensive in shopping and operating than those of the Land Guard, which have alternative options, such as flying farther and under poor weather conditions. Special treatment will produce the best results in serious accidents and acute illness, but in order for it to produce the best possible results, of course, it should be administered as soon as possible. In order to shape the future course of a medical transport, the use of a medical helicopter must be considered in cooperation with the use of a national health care unit, national health care, and hospital flights. I agree with those who point out that the South is the best place to test it in the first storm.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-25-55.u28	Mr. President. First, I'd like to step in to the mismanagement of the government's contract for medical transfers. In order to ensure the best use of funds and best service in this important area, it is reasonable that the services are in the hands of rural society as it was before 1990. Among these things, a meeting of fireman's company recently concluded. It is best that the country's firefighting force should have its own medical transportation. The collective effects are evident and are seen in human resources, education, employment stations, equipment, and strength. In the South, for example, the health - care center of the South is in the hands of the Brunavanna Southernis. Where there is hospital transportation, there can be no evidence that the services are more expensive, since there is no consistent effect on fire departments. There is no stability in these contracts, and there is no way to look. In many cases, contracts are only for one year, which is far too short. We don't have a lot of long-term thoughts on this thing. We have to change this. It's about making the most of money and providing the best possible service. As for a special patient helicopter, I'd like to say: I'd like to celebrate such ideas, but we have to look at things realistically. The running of such a helicopter is expensive. If we're going to take the road, the operation will be in the hands of the D.C., so that it can be supported at the same time. In the end, I'd like to come into the hospital only in the first place. He's been in Iceland's Red Cross, but there's ideas of changing that. At the same time, the business is also going under the fire departments. You have to have full consultation with a professional in this case. This involves not only the automobiles themselves but all their equipment, maintenance, etc. The knowledge is with the firemen, and that is where this business is going.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-25-55.u29	V.E.G. President. Hospital transportation is an important part of basic health care, and I rejoice at it. The Minister intends to re-examine that Ministry case. Also, I am pleased with what a minister said earlier to make use of, and it has already been done, and she intends to continue that course, even better than has been done by health institutions in the country. As we have seen in the discussion, there is a huge increase in the number of patients in many parts of the country and even a dozen percent in some areas. There are reasons for this. One reason is the growth of tourists. There are other reasons, such as Just an increase in the life span of the people. Those in Iceland who run and manage medical transportation have long had to deal with a difficult, unstable environment. In many cases contracts have been made for a short time with the Icelandic State, making it more difficult for them to develop and develop the ministry. This is especially true in the more widely distributed areas of the country where ambulances are in the backwaters, but in larger locations, there are hospital transportations and firefighters being fired as one unit, as previously observed, and there are medical transports defined as additional projects, even though most of the materials are medical equipment. We need to revise this. It is also necessary, as others have noted today, to promote the education of health care workers. We have fine examples from neighboring countries in this regard and should be able to look there. I would like to emphasize that we need to renew our automobile in accordance with local needs. - I have a lot of points I have to run very fast here. Finally, I would like to mention only the patient's plane. This need to be taken into account in the context of the use of CAP helicopters and then a special hospital chopper. But the main point here at the end is that we need to examine this whole thing. We need to find practical ways to improve our ministry and increase our safety in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-25-55.u30	Mr. President. I'm going to start by saying every word. paritaprevir Njáll of Trausti, son of Friðbertsson. His diagnosis was accurate and accurate. Hospitalisations need to develop in the context of all the social changes and criticisms that have been presented in this discussion is primarily about the lack of this trend. The fact is, in a large and small country, there are many problems that will always be costable, but if we solve them well, we will bring back a better society. One person for whom I am excited is the suggestion for a special hospital helicopter. In general, we may have been on very expensive routes at helicopters because of the huge need for land care during rescue work, but special hospital choppers may be considerably less expensive and could even produce considerable savings in other areas of the health system. The current form may be a question later, but the helicopters need to stay on hold and be in the air quickly and preferably have a residence outside the capital area to shorten the time at the site of an accident. Of course, there are other things that need to be changed. We focus on technological changes that cause hospital service to become more expensive and have fewer hospital services. But it will not be possible to have every modern technology in ambulances, helicopters, and anything else that will be needed to have good hospital service available at places where it might otherwise be unacceptable. It would be wise to develop and make less expensive numbers of these devices that are unable to be found in less medical institutions today. [[The president calls.]] The point is, we have to let the ambulances work, and we have to keep the service all over the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-25-55.u31	A respectable president. I'm gonna start by thanking you. For this good and foreboding, Árnason the Year's Son. I've been in the Plagion of the Generals before, talking about the situation of the Ólausurists and the ambulance taken from them last summer. To this day, there is still no response team available on Ólaafsund. There is still no runner and give first aid while the Ósafans wait for an ambulance to come from Sigluundur or Dalvík. The ambulance continues to exist, but the two experts who had the right to provide all help and emergency help as soon as they were consulted have not been re-educed. No, of course not, they got laid off their jobs. We're talking about trying not to discriminate our people after their farm. I've become amazed that it is as if the life and limbs of the Olafurists are much less valuable than others in general. I can't figure out why you're starting to remove the ambulance before your response team has at least Get started. Isn't that the wrong end of the line? I'm calling this flubber, quick and completely on the wrong side of the town's will, completely at the will of everyone on the Grinch who called for this ambulance to continue providing the safety that she really does. More than a thousand signatures were collected. We're talking about having more signatures than building all of Ólafjörður fun. It is one thing to talk about equality in the country and that we should sit at the same table, there it is, for example. Not done at all. It seems to be characterized, as I say, by fluffyness and rashness. I encourage the highest. Health Ministers are taking a serious look at this Commission of Health in Northern countries. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-25-55.u32	A respectable president. Thank you. Councilmen and the highest. Minister for good discussions and business matters in this important matter. I'd like to review some of the things that have been going on. This discussion is fully reflected in the health and geographic nature of this subject. This is a big urbanity, and the interfaith influence is large in what is being done to strengthen the settlements. I welcome the highest. A minister says to try to strengthen health centers in the country. By increasing the education of hospital transporters, much of the work to be done in these clinics can be done to keep more people in service in the country and in other countries, and it is also a major concern to equal the availability of all the people of the country to health care. Regarding the travelers, it is only a fact that they, although not the highest percent, are taking longer. Travelers or visitors are usually in the highlands, farther away in the country and away from the hospitals and the outposts of the medical transportation. There are language problems, etc. You have also heard of up to 90 bus buses traveling the road - and what happens if such a bus strikes a bus or something? It is also uncertain in small areas where ambulances, firefighters, and rescue workers are one man. I'd like to come to the end of the hospital chopper and thank you for the excellent counseling of this important matter. The National Guard has a search and rescue role. Here we are talking about the health care services to be provided, these are two different roles, and the cost to the hospital is less than the economy it creates, and it adds to the reaction we have today. It's all about the power of human resources, such as ambulances, helicopters, and airplanes. [[The president calls.]] Thank you for your time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-25-55.u33	A respectable president. Thank you for a very good and helpful discussion. I'd like to wish first. paritaprevir Jón Þór Þorvaldsson, congratulations on his virgin speech. Other than that, I'd like to mention a few things that came out. Hv. paritaprevir Elíasdóttir Fräldur Elijahsdotir mentioned the situation in connection with the Fire Department at Akureyri. According to my information, we now have a contract with Iceland's Health Insurance that will not break the harmony that exists there. Hv. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson asked specifically for re-education and training. The hospital transfer school is very alert to increase demand with increased emphasis on telecommunications in these materials. Hv. paritaprevir Oddný Harðardóttir asked for an act on Iceland's Red Cross about a change in this arrangement. The communication is going well. The meeting was last Monday, where the subjects under it were being charted. Some senators named cooperation with the firemen, why. paritaprevir Þórarinsson, including them, lives. Indeed, it is very much combined with the fire departments and with that cooperation in many areas. However, it is important to keep it in place that there is a healthcare professional number one. This activity needs to be in the foreground. However, urban areas, both in Akureyri and as well as in the capital area, are often relevant to both instruments and design. That's what we're supposed to do. Several members of Parliament spoke of a lack of policy. Hv. paritaprevir My dear Trausti Friðbertsson specifically spoke of this as being fragile as it is today, I paraphrasing what he said. I agree with that. That is why we need to control this vital aspect of health care. And lift it up to the site where it belongs and sees what often this first contact area with the health care system is, not as a route to the health system, since it is often the first contact with a healthcare professional. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I thank you, by the way, for a very good discussion, and I continue to take these points with me in policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-25-55.u34	Mr. President. From 2010 onward, it can be said that the NPA Law was required. This law is used not merely to cover that service model but to minister to disabled people with long - term needs. We take an important step in the 21st century with this legal arrangement, but we must also recognize that the work is not finished. The rights of disabled people and their social status will remain a work that society needs to care for. The law's reexamination is in this matter of great importance to the council, the disabled people, and their interest groups, other stakeholders, and the Ministry, in order to stay awake. Thank you. The members of the Parliament's staff for the work on the bill, as well as the Ministry and Advisor for their contribution. By our concerted actions, we have been able to get the case to its final payment, and let us welcome this milestone. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-25-55.u35	Mr. President. Of course, I'm on this good point and I'm happy here that we have indeed reached some point in the country. There's been a good conversation and consultation with a professional, and we at the Central Party are celebrating today. I'd also like to say that provisional guarantees that when it comes to it, the law will be revised, because the purpose of it is to fulfill the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people. It is also important to remind those who are disabled to get access to a consultation committee in the affairs of those who benefit them all.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-25-55.u36	V.E.G. President. This is a major milestone in which we are actually enforcing the United Nations Convention on the Causes of Disorientation, and he laid the basis for review and review of the law of the law in preparation of the bill, and thus we legalize the human rights of the contract. And we also legalize the NPA. The legal bill on disabled people's issues with a lot of support would break the value of older laws and come as an additional measure to the bill we'll vote for afterwards and change to social services. I thank a number of economists for putting this work to the order of a staff on the review of the law and the bill, a very unselfish job, and following it with reviews and discussions to the council and what to do. The welfare committee. Thank you for a very careful job.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-25-55.u37	President. I come up here to celebrate that we are finally overcoming this matter and the good solidarity we met on the welfare committee. I appreciate your cooperation with me there. This has been a marvelous learning process and an enjoyable meeting that took place. I hope that we have achieved the important reconciliation that we needed in order to bring about this matter. It's a really cool job that's done.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-25-55.u38	Mr. President. We're celebrating today. We're trying to make a breakthrough, but we're not there yet. We're dealing with a challenge. This is a cooperation project of state and community members, and these administrative measures are under pressure to work well together and to make ends meet on important human rights issues for the good group of disabled people in the country, and hopefully we'll be able to get this all the way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-25-55.u39	A respectable president. I thank the welfare committee for the work we were doing on this committee. This is a very important matter, and it was well worked. Those who are most important in this regard are those who are to be used in the ministry. Will they be satisfied? I think so. But if anything comes up, there's a law of revision after three years, and that's very important because no matter what we do, if those who are supposed to use the ministry are not happy, they are better at home than start a vein and have someone against it. I rejoice over this, and then I sincerely hope that this will benefit those who need it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-25-55.u40	A respectable president. Like the rest of them. I welcome the turning point that we are finally voting on this important matter. This is the third time I've enjoyed the privilege of discussing it at the moment. The welfare committee. All this time, there has been good cooperation and agreement on the importance of the matter. I'd like to say that the council has often shown that there can be good solid solidarity and good results in big issues like this. It's happening here today, so it's time to celebrate. Thanks, too, for your cooperation. The welfare committee. I hope that cooperation with the stakeholders, users and those who are expected to provide the service will continue fully with the regulations and regulations of the rural community and the executives. It's very important, and I only rejoice at the end of this fine addition to the choice of users who need this service.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-25-55.u41	A respectable president. What a turning point, a time for joy today! I'd like to start by wishing. The welfare committee deeply congratulates you on this wonderful result, on the cooperation and determination it has shown in this matter. I'm proud to be at the council right now and to be part of a vote for NAPA, a user-controlled personal help, for people who need special assistance. I also hope that here we will stand as beautiful as we will wear, the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Distant People, and completely legalize them. There will also be another milestone, which I really hope we are all ready to pursue.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-25-55.u42	Mr. President. I'll join in a celebration and a jubilation here. If not for decades, this is a turning point in the affairs of the disabled, probably one of the greatest we have seen in the years. True, we are only in 2nd. Here, but I trust we'll finish this case all the way. Of course, these are a major milestone, a tremendous good work done by a welfare committee and, of course, a tremendous and good work that lies behind them for many years, from the beginning of a working group on behalf of the then Department of Social Services at the Harðardóttir of 2014 under the direction of Willum Þór Thor Þórsson Thor, now in the Assembly Hall. Thanks to all the good work being done here through these years and to the joy of seeing that this matter is reaching its end right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-25-55.u43	A respectable president. This is where we pay votes for changing the control of fishing, for coastal fishing. This is an experiment that has taken place in a parapolitic organization to do so during the summer, evaluating that the end of some of the initiatives have been made in the future marine fishing organization. The system is being changed so that instead of getting Olympic fishing within each month, we look for security of sailors, flexibility in the system, and significant improvement in the coastal fishing pool. It adds up to 25% of what was added last summer so we feel that this fine effort can be made in behalf of sailors and working with the coastal fishing grounds that have been lifted by many settlements all around the country. I trust the U.S.R. will be of great interest to us in this experiment. Then we'll take it in the fall. [[The president calls.]] We have considerable resources, so we can be sure that all boats will have 12 days of the entire period.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-25-55.u44	A respectable president. This is where we vote for a bill that's supposed to increase safety in coastal fishing. I'm all for it. However, I am concerned about the effects of these changes or different effects in the coastal fishing areas. I support it, but the bill goes through 3rd. and to mention between discussions with aims to look at weather in particular to their point of view on how to be affected differently by coastal fishing areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-25-55.u45	V.E.G. President. This is where we'll talk about a beach fishing bill. I'm on the green button, between the 2nd and 3rd. and is also on the job board, all of which is on the case. In the bill, there is a safety issue and it is to increase the safety of sailors to receive it through. The bill isn't perfect. In a perfect world, I would have had my doubts, but this is like the Chairman of the Committee came in, an experiment that will be considered in the autumn. I'm not afraid that sustainability is threatened, and it can't happen at all. A reputation for an Icelandic fishing industry is accepted by its rules and principles. So we must act. Anything else I'm against, something called an offense goal or something like that. We have one pot that we're hunting from, and we need to work for scientific advice.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-25-55.u46	Mr. President. This case has developed very much. However, the situation is sad to say that although there has been a significant improvement in the treatment of the employment committee, there are still serious failures that could cause problems, especially in region D, and possibly in other areas. I accept the adjustment proposals, but I still think that the bill that it is still inadequate. We're gonna need the straggler. Therefore I will sit with him in his special matters. At the end of these votes, a professional health committee meets. Well, then I hope we can get what we need so that this can be considered a good bill that works for all those who are trying to catch a beach hunt. That's very good. It's in the right direction, but it's still missing the military cut.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-25-55.u47	A respectable president. In fact, all people interested in the growth of coastal fishing in Iceland should rejoice at this turning point in which the most available resources are being authorized into the system that has ever been. This is a significant increase since last year. Hence, it is out of harmony with the decision and solidarity that the issue is that it is the controversy that is evident in this matter. I don't think that's an acceptable thing to do. That's a normal concern. They're justified. If a decision is made on the same issue, it can lead to controversy. I will not support the matter as it looks today, but I will sit by the vote in confidence. Parliaments on the Council's Professional Committee will take action to look for ways that may lead to greater and broader reconciliation over the matter at the end.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-25-55.u48	A respectable president. Yeah, here's an attempt, like a leg. The head of the trade committee said. There is a negligible increase in quataneous to coastal fishing, but this is the case. They get more than 3% of the total trinkets. Although it's slightly increased, perhaps about 0.5%, I wouldn't say that heaven and earth were dying that way, not at all. Of course, I celebrate the bill and the thought behind the bill, but I believe the increase in this quota and the hunting will move into area A, the west side. I think so. And that the other areas will carry a sharp object from the table. These Olympic fishing programs are not finished with this bill. I believe that the dinner will be over by the end of July so that the fishing in area B, C and especially D will be smaller than today. I will sit by the bill's decommissionment and I sincerely hope that a professional health committee will make adequate adjustments.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-25-55.u49	Mr. President. It's an EEA thing that comes in through our cooperation there, and there's a lot of good about it. Trying to build a better incentive for the development of drugs for children, which is the best. Unfortunately, there is something in this that is based on a big misunderstanding. This is to be concluded, with no real evidence that extending the time of patent will somehow increase the incentive to develop a drug. I asked for information on whether anyone could argue that it was certain. The answers I received were in the form of study literature that actually covered a completely different subject. So I still haven't seen proof of this. Still, this is a different matter. We support it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-25-55.u50	A respectable president. I have a motion made in this case by the law: The Department of Justice shall, as far as possible, monitor the health insurance conditions available in this country.•My proposal is to take away ◯ As far as possible, and instead just say: We'll keep an eye on the insurance policy, i.e. That the F.O. can't let go of the surveillance that is being carried out by this law. With the current version, it can skip it and nothing happens, it's against the law. We want this under SEC. As a result, it is obvious that these words have to be dismissed that will impervious to the SEC to avoid doing this surveillance.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-25-55.u51	Mr. President. I sincerely believe that the approval of this synonym can be the beginning of a great social advantage if it is handled properly. So I want to impress on us senators, the highest. A financial minister and a financial committee, to provide this project with the financial foundation necessary. An essay with the proposal includes the following: Reference was to the success that Norwegians have achieved over the years by their methodology. It has, for example, been found there. It has been ensured that the parallels between research and the building of knowledge that this proposal contains money to carry out its work under the protection of the Norwegian Ministry. Three - year contracts are made with defined objectives and tasks to be carried out. It has to be done here too.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-25-55.u52	Mr. President. There's a meeting on the pro board later on because of the beach fishing bill. I understand that's on the basis of a date on May 1. Another case has been addressed during the past few days at the Work Board, i.e. a law within the domestic agreement, where the clear and rich will of the Generalis is to allow the freedom of import through the two-sided contract made by Icelanders several years ago by the EU. Now the Ministry has advertised this dinner and is the ad at the contrary to the council's will. However, due to the Ministry and the members of Congress that were more than part of the approved domestic agreement at the time, this has been made clear. We on the Committee were going to deliver the case, but a statement came from the Ministry that a minister wanted to do it himself. Now it's May 1st on Tuesday, there's committee days on Friday and Monday, so I'm asking the highest. President: Has there been a variation in the program tomorrow to the President so that we have the day to resolve this case so that it can be advertised, so that the Ministry can advertise the quatans so that it is in accordance with the rich will of the Generals to agree with the contract? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-25-55.u53	The president would like to say that at this point this case has not been adopted. Of course, the president is prepared to examine it, and if that is the case, immediately thereafter. I don't know yet that I've got it on my table, but the president has actually been away for a few days, so to speak.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-25-55.u54	V.E.G. President. I thank you for your kindness, and I want you to know that this is so important. We're talking about the great interests of consumers, that this case will be resolved by May 1. There is not much time, but there is a total agreement in the Committee that this case will be taken up so that not only 37 tons of special cheese produced in specific European areas but it is not produced here, that the advertisement may be made to some 140 tons. I thank you for your rich will and understanding. The president of this subject, hoping that the members of the greater body, the members of the Ministry, will come here immediately with a bill so that we can talk about it and take care of it by tomorrow. That's a clear choice at the council. Let's make use of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-25-55.u55	Mr. President. That's what I'm talking about. A senator took up this account, and I agree with it on the import parvot of cheeses that we discussed on the job committee that it was the understanding of the committee when the labour agreement was finished and found in a committee list that it was willing to allow hurry to a certain amount of custom-marked cheeses. The committee and I wanted to file a case and arranged for a member of the Ministry to discuss it, but we certainly received the message that a minister was going to deliver the case himself. I'm ready to step up this matter if I have any chance of doing it because it's such a case that the job committees agreed on it at the time that it was part of a contract agreement.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-25-55.u56	Mr. President. I especially want to come up here to thank you. paritaprevir Magnúsdóttir Electrical Rafney for taking this matter very positive and helping to speed it up through the council. I think it's one of the things we're supposed to do together. It is clear to me that, as far as I know, on the committee and at the council. I think we must unite to encourage the Minister or that the committee itself will complete the case tomorrow. I'm sure that a body of Congress will help to get the situation through quickly and effectively, if necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-25-55.u57	A respectable president. I give an opinion about changes to the bill for changing food laws and the law on veterinary surgeons and health services to animals (monitoring, information administration) from a professional health committee. The Committee has discussed the matter and has received its meeting with Eggert Ólafsson and Sigurgeir Þorgeirsson from the Department of Professional Developments, Sigurður Eyþórsson from Iceland's Basis, Halldór Runólfsson from Iceland's Animal Medical Association, Árný Yearly Sigurðardóttir Daughter and Jón Ragnar Gunnarsson from the National Institute of Health, Jón Gíslason, and Viktor Pálsson from Food Institute, Lárus M.K. Ólafsson on behalf of the Group of Tourist Services and Business and Service, Héðinsdóttir of the Industrial Association, and Jón Kristinn Sverrisson from the European Association. The Committee received reviews from Iceland's Farms Association, Iceland's Animal Medical Association, Business Driver's Association, Reykjavík's Health Center, Food Institute, Fishing Association, and Industrial Association, Business Association, and Service Associations, and Business Association. We had a good meeting with all these agents. In combination with this bill, we have a bill presented for a new overall song on the Food Agency, a 331st case, as follows. This bill suggests changes in food laws and animal doctors and health care laws and is the aim of harmonising the monitoring and information of the Rapporteur. The reasons why the bills are presented are suggested in the 2013 Food Institute Report for Review in the General Review Report, as well as in a 2013 Food Organization report from 2017, produced by the Ministry of Employment and Neons. In accordance with local laws, health - care committees, which have a total of ten national references and a food management system, will monitor the production and distribution of food. According to the 22nd floor. the management of food, i.e. Food monitoring consistent, monitoring and monitoring. This bill suggests that health committees record and publish information in the same way as Food Organization. The main changes included in this bill are that of a team 1. it is suggested that monitors be allowed to reduce the incidence of surveillance in a food company that has a certifying agreement that its internal monitoring meets the requirements of law and order. There's a b- team 1st, then. It should be noted that the surveillance partners of the enterprise are acting according to the results of surveillance and that the Minister of further regulations for such a category should be set up. Pharmacotherapeutic group is aimed at impacting assessments of the monitoring needs of the enterprise and providing incentive for careful management where monitoring will be combined and monitoring requirements will be reduced. Health Committees are expected to adopt the same classification as reported on food monitoring in the same way as the Food Control Agency and the official health care providers are therefore expected to work by the same risk and performance system. According to C- team 1. The assessment centres and health committees shall have a common meeting at least twice a year, and the purpose of the directive is to ensure access to health committees, to cooperate with the Food Organization under the bill for a new overall work programme for the Agency. The bill suggests a change that will take effect later than any other law. It involves the publication of public information on the classification and performance of an enterprise, as well as the provision of classified surveillance reports. The Commission suggests a change in the bill as well as a change in organic agriculture laws. It is suggested that new laws be added to the bill that food management by a management agency and official monitoring under that law will be required. The proposal is made to clear the Agency's management and monitoring role but in accordance with its current legislation certain aspects of the administration. The Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following modification: 1st Then there's a new chapter, III. Chapter 1, Change of Organic Agricultural Products Act, No. 162/1994, with one new article, 6 saying, Instead of 1.mg. Section 3. The law has two new paragraphs, as follows: A food agency is running a government and official monitoring under these laws. A food management agency is permitted to assign other agencies, private agencies, or individuals to take care of specific tasks in the field of the Food Organization under these laws, provided that they have appropriate practice. The minister must comment further on the conditions of the expansion with the regulations. 2. The bill's headline will be: Cells to correct the changing of food laws, animal doctors and health services to animals and organic agrienvironment schemes (monitoring, information). In payment of this case on the Committee, Sæland Goad was absent, the Þorgerður daughter of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir was meeting the committee as an officer and when she agreed to this agreement. We submit to this opinion, the chairman of the Committee, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, author of Ásmundur Friðriksson, Jónsson Sigurður Kristjánsdóttir, Óttarsson Fjordur Álfheiður Eymarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-25-55.u58	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a panel of committees from a professional network on the bill for the Food Institute. The Commission has discussed the matter and received its meeting with Eggert Ólafsson and Sigurgeir Þorgeirsson from the Department of Professional Developments, Sigurður Eyþórsson from Iceland's Basis, Halldór Runólfsson from Iceland's Animal Medical Association, Runólfur Helgadóttir and Rólfólf Vigfússon from the Society of Icelandic naturalists, the Árný Year's Sigurðardóttir and Jón Ragnar Gunnarsson from the National Institute of Health, Jón Gíslason and Viktor Pálsson from Food, LárusM.K. Ólafsson on behalf of the Group of Tourist Services and Business and Service, Héðinsdóttir of the Industrial Association, and Jón Kristinn Sverrisson from the European Association. The Committee received reviews from Iceland's Farms Association, Iceland's Animal Medical Association, Business Driver's Association, Reykjavík's Health Center, Food Institute, Fishing Association, and Industrial Association, Business Association, and Service Associations, and Business Association. The bill suggests that there will be a new global law on the Food Institute. While this bill is presented, a bill is presented to correct the changing of food laws and the laws on veterinary surgeons and health care for animals, i.e. 330th case recommended earlier. The reasons why the bills are presented are suggested in the 2013 Food Institute Report for Review and the 2013 Food Organization, as well as in a 2013 report from 2017 that was prepared for the Ministry of Professionals and Neons. A food - eating agency replaced a agricultural institution and came into existence under the law of No. 167/2007. On the basis of that law, food issues were transferred to the fishing export and agricultural services. In recent years various projects have been submitted to the Agency, but in Article 2. The current legislation is listed by the legislation on the control or administration of the Agency. This bill stipulates the government position of the Food Agency and its role, including the role of counselees, public education, and so forth. It is new that the Agency should work to make possible access to international markets, as well as to recommend regular cooperation and the sharing of information. This will help you to grow in understanding. The committee proposes that the bill be accepted as unchanged. Sæland Goland was away from the hearing. The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir was meeting the committee as an officer of the hearing, and she agrees with this. Under the committee's office, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Njáll Trausti Kristjánsdóttir, Elíasdóttir Friðin Furfjörður Elisdótir, Kolbeinn Odrjörður Friðbertsson, Sigurður, Páll Jónsson, and Álfheiður Eymarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-25-55.u59	A respectable president. This is where I recommend a board of committees on bill to legalize the law on Transportation, the Transportation Office for Transportation, No. 119/2012. The bill deals with the release of international shipping regulations. The bill itself is a total of 109th. 178 and the opinion of the committee on deck. 830. The committee discussed the matter and was contacted by a representative from the Department of Transport and the Ministry of Justice. The committee requested reviews from key stakeholders, but no reviews or comments were received. The bill suggests that the Agency published on its website an Annex and Code with international agreements on the seas to which Iceland is a member, along with the publicletters and guidelines that follow these contracts. A similar law was included in the law of No. 6/1996, of Iceland's Sports Institute of Sports, a law fell out of the law at the Institute of Transport. It seems to have been a mistake. An estimated size of text code and an appendix is about 6,400 pages, and this adds to the text of other fermentations, e.g. Captions and leaflets. The cost of publication in the Control of C is 5,000 bucks. on page 18. For example, the introduction of the above product cases was very lacking in the country, and most of them have not been published in Government News or translated. The bill is intended to facilitate access to international shipping policies for those working on the platform. Clearly, the type proposed in the bill is intended to replace publication in the Management News and will therefore apply as a special guide for the publication of commands in addition to the code and other types of international agreements on the seaways. It was published by the Committee that late and costlyly translate all of this Annexes as well as their materials to a distinct group of individuals who are expected to understand the foreign language because of education and other expertise as well as those that the appendix has to do with trade ships, which are few in the country. It was also published by the Committee that the urgent response and publication of the requested appendix was supported by the report by the International Chesalth Agency on the implementation of international sea contracts in the country, and most of the damages in question are unsupervised. The committee justifys the importance of law harmony in the implementation of laws and binding rules and does not consider the laws on these matters to be to be to be followed. Then the committee emphasizes that the matter is Icelandic, and it is a principle that all the text of government history is in Icelandic. Mistakes from this principle should be exercised with caution, and the need for rules and laws to be clear and accessible. The Commission stresses that there is a very well - defined field, and it can be reasoned that the results of the case protect a distinct group of people who are fair enough to understand the foreign language because of their education and other expertise. Code two. Section 4. Law on Government News and Law Sheets, No. 15/2005, allowing the publication of foreign text on the Management News. There has been some evidence of a willingness to reduce the obligation to publish international contracts and European types in the C C department because of its costs. The Parliament's committees regularly receive such adjustments or tips, as is the case in order to form a greater part of the economic and business committee's opinion on a bill to legalize the insurance policy that became the law of No. 60/2017. The Commission believes that there is an urgent solution to the release of the products in question and gives sufficient evidence that publication is allowed in a foreign language, and their content seems only to be used by experts who are accustomed to using the English text of these bacteria, and their Icelandic version does not exist. In view of their release on the Agency's website, but not in the Management News, the Committee does not consider this to be to be to be to be a pattern, yet it does not suggest a change in the arrangement, in view of the interests involved. The Commission, however, takes into account the importance of a revised law on the Government News and a Law Code in order to ensure harmonization and clear communication policy. The committee further warns that these special laws are given in many lands because it undermines the clarity of law and law. It would be reasonable to review the overall release of massive products, of Europe, and of agreements and to look for ways to avoid the high costs associated with it, while ensuring harmonisation and access to existing laws and regulations. Hence, the Committee directs the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Presidents to have a premeditation on such reviews and to ensure the availability of other treatments as necessary. The committee proposes that the bill be accepted as unchanged. Under the writings of Jón Gunnarsson, the first vice president of the Committee, Dr. Anna Sævarsdóttir, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Fjölnir: Sæmundsson, Helga Vala Helgadóttir, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, Jón Þór Þur Þorvaldsson Þóðirðmundsson, Hjaltason Gautisson and Vilmiramur Árnason.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-25-55.u60	Mr. President. I would like to recommend a commission about bill change of financial company law, no. 161/2002 (determination, payment contracts and invalid legalizations). The bill suggests changes to XII. section of the law on financial enterprises, which covers reorganization of financial companies, their breakups, and their partnerships with other financial companies. There have been some changes in the chapter from the law's sentence and by law No. 130/2004 was the main part of Directive 2001/24/EC, of reorganisation and of loan length, introduced into Icelandic correctly. As stated in a committee study, it is considered necessary to make several adjustments following court reviews, to clarify more detail about the implementation of the European Directive. The rules of the bill apply only to financial companies with national headquarters and activities in another EEA state. The above directive insists that in the treatment of a financial company, the laws of the home state should be followed. As a result, if a financial enterprise runs a branch in other countries or deals with businesses and persons outside the home, there is only one treatment and not many. This principle, however, is unique because of the nature of financial activity. In this country, the combination of principles and restrictions and to the extent of the rules of the Icelandic law on bankruptcy, et cetera, No. 21/1191, compatible with regulations 23, 25 and 30. The directive I've mentioned before. The bill suggests that the changes are made to explain the exceptions that apply to the principles that the home law holds value for its fragmentation and its branch offices. On the one hand it is suggested that an invalid rule of 30 g is stated. The directive will also drop the routing protocols of XX. section of the law on bankruptcy and the burden of proof that legalization should apply to laws other than home law rests on the shoulders of the one who has benefited. The assessment of whether the evidence has succeeded or not depends on local rules for proof and proof. However, there are rules covering financial wear and payment agreements which are covered by the EFTA assessment of the implementation of exceptional rules of rules 23 and 25. The order. The committee proposes that the bill be accepted as unchanged. Under the committee of the Watch Tower Society is Þorsteinn Sigmundur Davíð, the Dögg of Wílur, the daughter Víglundsson Brizund, the daughter of Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, the Helgi Hrafn of Gunnarsson, the Harðardóttir of Sverrisdóttir Gunnlaugsson, the Gunnarsdóttir of Oddr G.. Ólafur Ísleifsson, an officer of the Committee, agrees with this opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-25-55.u61	A respectable president. I'd like to recommend a committee party. The Economic and Business Committee on bill to legalize the Change in Pension of Pension Credits Act. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Anna Valbjörg Ólafsdóttir and Haraldur Steinþórsson from the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs. The committee received reviews from the National Association of Pension Funds and Business Associations. The bill compares the reduction in the number of reserves in the management of the Congregational Treasure of Pension rights from seven to two; and on the other hand, their departure in the law, which is in accordance with law on the supposed insurance of pensions and the work of pensions, No. 129/1997, which apply equally to the activities of the Congregation Fund. The comments given to the committee on the matter agree with the viewpoint behind the objectives of the bill, that it is unnecessary to make a requirement for so many defenders in the management board, and that there is no need to double the laws in the law on the Congregational Fund proposed to be removed. The Commission agrees with these views and suggests that the bill will remain the same. Under the committee of the above - mentioned publications, Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, Óli Björn Kárason, president of France. The Director of the Economic and Business Committee, the Helgi of Horfun the Hrafn of Gunnarsson, Ólafur the Þór of Gunnarsson, Sverrisdóttir the Gunnarsdóttir of Severris, Sigmundur the son of Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson, the Þorsteinn Víglundsson of Wazlund, Odnew G. A member of the Committee, Ólafur Ísleifsson, agrees with this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-25-55.u62	Mr. President. I would like to recommend the Committee on the Economic and Business Commission's Committee on a bill to correct the changing of the law on the Pension Fund of the State's Personnel, No. &lt; 1/1997, with subsequent changes (excels of pensions). The committee discussed the matter and received a review of the state's Pentateuch of Penitentiary to Ólafsdóttir Valbjörg and Haraldur Steinþórsson, as well as the committee's information on the state's Penitentiary. The bill suggests a change in the law on the Pension Fund, No. One of the '1997' needed, so fundmates in the B department can use a warrant for taking half a pension from 65 years of age, to meet certain criteria set up in the Social Security Act, No. 100/2007, by law No. 116/2016 compares to Article 4. 2.g. The changes made in the bill are two kinds. One is suggested to include another paragraph 24. The Act on the Penitentiary of the Government's Personnel that states that a fund member can decide to start half of his pension anytime after 65 years of age is conditioned that he has no more than half a job to be involved in the fund or that he would have given the right to the funds for the institution of his A section. However, this change to the 2nd issue is proposed. Twenty-seven. The law says that the percentage of extra rights to a partner's pension according to the law aims to make a business share of funds when half of pensions began when it was appropriate, but not at the end of the work. A review of the State Department of Pension on the matter states that the adjustment required by the bill is necessary so that the 22,400 individuals who have legal rights from the fund can use the right to take half of their pension from 65 years of age. So the fund supports the bill's approval. In the review of the Committee, the question was, Is it possible that half of the employment rate against half a pension was granted to a business partner in the R-ISSLA continued to work in the fund? The Committee has received confirmation that this is the case and that a 50% share of funds in Ward B yields 1% annual workforce but a 100% cut-off of jobs yields 2%. So the committee suggested that the bill be accepted as unchanged. A respectable president. It is proper to note that finishing this matter is an important step in the situation. The members of Parliament and, in fact, all of the nation have agreed on in recent years, and perhaps even in particular, the older citizens' organization, to contribute as much as possible to flexible retirements. It's important that we finish this matter at this assembly, including... and therefore is contraindicated. Under the titled publications of President Óli Björn Kárason, President Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson's son, Þorsteinn the son of Víglundsson, Bártís the Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir, The Helgi Hrafn of Gunnarsson, Hildur Sverigris, the Sverrisdóttir of Harðardóttir G. Hardard, Sigmundur the son of Davíð Gunnlaugsson, and Silja Gunnarsdóttir Góndur. A member of the Committee, Ólafur Ísleifsson, agrees with this opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-25-55.u63	A respectable president. I recommend here to the Committee on the General and Education Committee on a bill to correct a change in the adoption law, the reviews of the immediate family. This bill is primarily about the rights of children and their well - being. This is a factor in improving the rights of children who have lost a parent or both, and who are trying to strengthen their relationship with the family of the deceased parent so that grief does not improve as a result of broken family ties on the loss of a loved one. In the legal context, this is a small matter, but for each person who goes through a loss and grief, this can be important. The bill suggests that before taking a position for adoption because of a child who has lost a parent or both of his or her immediate family members or both of them are both dead. This is true whether it is the primary route, step-direction or foetal route. The objective of the bill is, as I mentioned, to ensure that the child's lasting relationship with the dead parent's family will not be broken by any of its immediate relatives or parents. It is of great importance that a successful approach to adoption is made up of a lasting decision with an enormous amount of rightfulness. The committee discussed some of these matters in its discussion, but at adoption, a provincial child gains the same legal standing with his ideal parents, their relatives, and those who are elected to marry them as if it were his own children, except by law in other ways. From the same time, the child's legal alliances with sex parents, other relatives, and those who are in debt to them will fail unless the law makes a different choice. This is an irreversible decision that leads to the breaking of the legal relationship between a person and a family and a new corresponding relationship between the child and its or its adopters. A child's loss of his or her parent, according to the nature of the situation, has an enormous impact on his or her feelings for a long time. This has also been clear in various studies. The committee even talked about it. Only on the research of Professor Sigrún Júlíusdóttir, a social worker at the University of Iceland. Sigrún noted that after the death of a parent, children are often cut off and alone, even sitting with anxiety and difficult thoughts and concerns about their future. At the same time that other family members are dealing with their grief, they are in the same package, as it were, and they need other tools to deal with it than are the adults around them. Like disagreements in families that we may be familiar with where divorce takes place more often, Sigrún noted that on top of the above, children may find themselves in trouble between their families. Part of the improvement in children in this situation, part of working out their grief with the loved one, who is continuing to interact with the dead parent's family, with the people close to the child. Living in such an environment in which they have a strong connection with their origin and experience security can soften their grief and help with that process. The committee suggests a few changes to the bill. I'd like to read here the bill's basic proposal as a paraphrase so that it might be a little clearer than it was originally in the bill. We propose that she be as follows: ▪ Now one parent is dead or both, and if possible, look to the parents of the deceased parent, the siblings of the parent and the siblings of the person who adopts before considering adoption, or the one who adopts the parent when he is under 18 years of age. At the same time, it is advisable to seek out the comments of others who are close to a child, if thought necessary, for the adopter is under 18 years of age. So you can explain this in human language, we're talking about a family tree that has been cut off, a parent has died, the child is left behind, and we want to make sure that Grandma and Granddad are all around this article that falls away has something to say when we make a lasting decision about the future of this individual. The committee discussed various topics that I would like to include. There are three especially I would like to mention here, even in terms, some even philosophical. First of all, what is the closest family? Second, how does the increased number of narratives that we add to the adoption process affect us? Third, do different types of adoption differ from those of the first century C.E.? First, the philosophical question about what is the closest family and who are close to the child. There were conflicting views on the source. Some rejoiced that it was good to have the highest definition of who should be knocking on to get a review in the adoption process. It also reflects the complexity of human life in which families are a variety of ways that they do not encourage precisely which individuals are involved in some complete assessment. On the other hand, the person who may be most likely to work with this law is becoming quite familiar with the thought of snowball, which could continue to wonder in the eternal narrative to the endless series of people who could possibly be viewed as adopted by the relatives of children. The Commission feels that there is a need to be absolutely clear to which party to look for information in the case of the bill, including so that the treatment won't get too heavy, we'll find out the details. In the treatment of the matter, it was noted that there may be a wide variety of family patterns and circumstances. Therefore, it may be necessary to look for the interests of your child to obtain comments but to be accurately listed, e.g. if it is simply shown during observation that they are associated with the child. The committee emphasizes that assessment of adoption attendances is always taken into consideration the child's interests and will and that part of it is that the gathering of reports of family members does not result in excessive delays in the preparation and decision of the adoption. The committee believes that the purpose of the project must always be set aside, depending on the composition of each family. That is why we suggest the adjustment I read here, that it is recommended that the parents of the deceased parent, their siblings, and their siblings should be consulted before accepting a position for adoption. That's the point. They're the people who're going to look for reports. Then we add to the Committee that if necessary, it will also be permitted to seek out the comments of others who are close to a child. This is the room. There's a businessman, or child - welfare officer, or who's involved in considering the case of the child in question and determining if it is, for example, the case of the child. Stepparents or relatives who have a deep emotional connection with their child, who have every reason to be involved in the discussion. Second, the effect of this increased number of reports on the adoption process is what might be expected. Then, according to the Committee's opinion, the goal of the bill is to ensure careful treatment of adopted applications by obtaining more data that can be based on some of the overall assessments of the child's best interests. At the same time, the goal is to ensure that a lasting bond with a deceased parent or parent's family will not be terminated without the arrival of their family. Rather than making any clear application of the process, if the reviews are negative or what else, the committee will stress that there will be some kind of procedure within the institutions that will ensure that this hopefully stem from the comments of loved ones will be part of the overall assessment of adoption. In the case of comments close to you, particular attention must be given to each subject, whether and how their material will affect the outcome and how they will serve the child's interests and perhaps one that we must never forget, what is the child's own view of adoption, at all ages, and especially when it comes to adulthood. Third, the committee had to look at whether different types of adoption called for different types of adoptions. There are different circumstances, depending on whether these are primary methods, step -ádence, or foetal barriers. There was a view to the need to take into account the legal status of the fetus and to distinguish between the primary and stepholders on the part of the fetuses in the bill. Although this is a physical issue, the committee believes that in this case the objective of the bill must be considered, which may include, to protect the child's rights and backgrounds and therefore is not a reason to make a special distinction between these categories, as well as the possibility of slow heads. Here we find again the variety of life and family differences, perhaps not a clean example of one of the adopted species would fall into one chamber rather than the other. In any case, the need for adoption must be determined. Since it is the assessment of the Commission that the purpose of the bill is simply to shed further light on the need, such as whether there are important relationships and whether they are best children, we believe that all species of adoptions are put under the same hat, especially when we do not expect this to be particularly burdensome or to extend the process. However, this section of the Commission's discussion revealed that there is good reason to listen to criticism from, for example, the source of the criticism. A partner of foster parents in its review of the interaction of these differing systems, which would actually be taking up the thread of a work that has already been started within the administration but has remained low. In March 2011, the Research Institute of the Year's Environment on Family Matters published a report on the review of adoption legislation and the implementation of adoptions in Iceland. That report was prepared for the State Department. The committee considers it important that adoption laws be reviewed and reviewed in the light of this work and the interaction of the legislation with the children's affairs and international agreements on child rights. The Committee will address the Ministry of Justice that this arrangement will be reviewed and that it will be considered in this matter of opinion, including the Council of Justice. if there is any basis for determining the difference between the different types of adoption and whether other criteria should apply for foetal consequences, such as whether there will be a particular time for abortion, before you can apply for adoption, and if your baby's immediate family should be adopted by a foster family, you can apply for association with the baby. There are plenty of these things to look at. The point is, here's a system with a lot of work to do. The bill we're discussing here today is just a tiny part of what needs to be done. The bill was submitted by the representatives of every group here at the council. The opinion I have here briefly explained has been brought by all the representatives of the General and Education Committee, so there is great loneliness in the matter. I believe the committee has done a good job and done a thorough research. Although, as I say, it may be done more in this category, this case is just not the scene to do so. In addition, under this committee, Árnadóttir Kolb Kolbrún Árnnadóttir, Birgarhsson, Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, Jón Steindór Valdimarsson, Páll Magnússon, Árnadóttir Erina, Willum Þórsson, and Þórhildur Ævarsdóttir Avjörgótir. I think it's fine, too, when we have this thing in our hands to remember that we are discussing people in a very delicate situation at a difficult time in life. These are families who have experienced loss and grief and the purpose of this adjustment is that the lawgiver and society protect the rights of the children who suffer the loss of their parents in this particular aspect. This can be important to them. It may be important not to experience double losses quickly, not to experience the loss of a parent, then to go through losing contact with the extended family of that parent. That's why, more honored President, I would say that this case is getting positive financial support as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-25-55.u64	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson for his excellent story. I'd like to say in the beginning that I think it's a very good thing to talk about and celebrate. A member of the council with the first member, Vilhjálmur Árnason, would have followed this matter closely and have brought it into the assembly room until the 2nd. I'm just wondering, maybe there's a more technical point about the law, if it was in the committee's discussions that there would be a need to be referred to the change course, i.e. 11th Hey, hey, hey! Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey! Law of adoption, reviews and reviews. It's not cross-references in between. I wondered, " Did the committee come up with the need for this? '
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-25-55.u65	A respectable president. Now is a good time. I don't have the law. The bill as it was submitted turned to two branches of the law, 7th paragraph. and 11. g., because there are some entrances to the outsider in this process as the law is set up now. What we do in this committee party is that we're making a statement in verse 7. Because we're narrowing this down into a very special situation. But because I don't have the law and the 17th parr. In front of me, the senator's put me in a bit of trouble. I hope we have at one of the meetings we had on this matter thoroughly reviewed this point.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-25-55.u66	Mr. President. It's certainly not my intention to have attempts to drive a dog. A senator's potential, as it were, was primarily instinctively curious that the man here asked and came to the point because there are often ways in which laws like these can work, they need to be cited and cross - references. But I expect it to be. A senator will have an opportunity to do so, while I stand here on a speaker's chair and moss, to look over the lyrics and see if this applies because I may not really have thought about it as much in detail as I do. A senator and a boy. A top-of-the-art Board of Education. I believe with this legislation and adjustment, we are taking an important step that can really be of support to these children and these young ones, these families. And that's exactly what we're doing. In its history earlier, a senator indirectly stepped in, and this can be done if something is done to help people in the difficult situation and the grieving process of the death of a parent.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-25-55.u67	A respectable president. Now I come twice in a child's room reading 1 7 gr. law on adoption and can assure the senator that it is not really involved. This article is a review of the adoption committee's comments given to a businessman who makes adoption a matter. It actually goes to the same pot as the envelopes we put in here. The article that we're adding to this bill is 11 p.m. The law that's about parents' reviews. We are extending this article so that it reaches the parents and caregivers of the deceased parents. The reviews will simply be part of a matter exactly the same as the reviews that come into the case from the adoption committee, according to 17. .. with various other documents that are set out in the rest of the laws as appropriate.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-25-55.u68	A respectable president. I want to thank you. The head of the General and Education Committee, Andrés Ingi Jónsson, is very much for his story and just refers to it and has little more to say about it that way. He explained the matter carefully and considered its contents and importance. Yet, I would like to express my words in a way that my dear ones thank you for what they have to say. The General and Education Committee for a good job in this needs matter, and celebrate the solidarity that was achieved there, hoping that such a thing will happen here in the conference room in further treatment. This issue is primarily about the well - being of the children and the right of their children. It is about protecting the child's right to know his origin. All we do for that purpose, the law we set, depends on the principle of child - law, international contracts, and the children's contracts we do after; to ensure the child's rights and well - being, the best for the child. I think it is very important, if this change occurs, that in the process of implementing these adoption issues, when the county's office or after the events of a adoption committee, which came here for the discussion of the answers, these matters are always being guided and taken into account the child's best concern, the child's rights, and the child's will. It is always as hard as you can to find out what your child's will is. It depends on the age and development of the material. But this is the child's right to identify his origin. In all contracts, research, and other agreements, it is best for a child to grow up with his parents and family and to have the best contact with them. As we have seen so many times, the very sensitive event in a child's life is that of losing a parent, one or both, and we need to do everything we can to ensure the child's well - being in the event of such an incident. This was mostly what I wanted to stress as soon as I thank you for the good work that was there. A top-of-the-art Board of Education came up with this. I would also like to remind you of the tremendous right - to - do effect of adoption. The right effect is irreversible. At the same time as adoption, the child's entire legal alliances with its birth parents, other relatives, and those who are in debt to it unless the law makes a different decision. A major step is to ask for adoption, and it plays a major role in the life of a child. Therefore, it is very important that those who are involved in such a case and discuss adoption applications and take their stand on the subject before making a decision and then, as mentioned earlier, be guided by the child's well - being, its right to contact the child's immediate family and know the child's will.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-25-55.u69	A respectable president. I hereby recommend an aluminium program with some adjustments in proposals for action on the coordination of telecommunications of recruitment. The interpretation proposal lies on the roof. Forty-five, with a language of No. 45. The committee discussed the matter and was contacted by a representative of the Council's Management Board's Management Board and from the European Union and the Company Association in the South. The main source of news came from rural and regional groups. The proposal suggests that the Allied Council agree to assign prime minister to implement a procedure for the Ministry of the Management Board on telecommunications in order to facilitate institutions, rural governments, and other bodies across the country of national relations with the Ministry. Ministers are suggested to ship a task force to recommend a procedure and to implement a new task plan. It is noted that the General Assembly shall present the results of the staff group no later than September 2018, according to the proposal. However, the Commission suggests that it will be no later than November 1, 2018, so that there will be room for policy and procedures. Only on telecommunications: Increased access to telecommunications has been required in many countries. For a long time, this was linked to some telecommunications equipment, but now telecommunications are no longer dependent on having special telecommunications but are usually connected with good computers, the right software, and possibly a TV or a TV projector. The Committee's meetings discussed the importance of ensuring access to the administration, i.e. the management board of Iceland, all of which have settled in Reykjavík, as well as a number of other institutions. It was noted that the number of people in regular contact with the Commission, including in meetings, and it can be both time - consuming and costly to have to travel long distances throughout the year as a result of meetings in the capital, whether individuals, businesses, rural governments, or institutions that need to attend such meetings. Thus, in view of advances in technology in recent years, it is necessary to place more emphasis on telecommunications. It was noted that it is common to have a telephone meeting but that it is desirable to have an electronic meeting, where it is important to communicate face to face - to - face. Video meetings no longer require special equipment, but they need to ensure that the hardware and software available in standard offices and conference rooms work together to be used for a video meeting. The Commission agrees with these views and considers it important to use technology to ensure access to governments and contact with them, regardless of their population. In handling the case of the committee, it was discussed the situation regarding the necessary equipment and knowledge to maintain telecommunications. Governments were asked to have the means to have telecommunications, but there is a need to improve the training and training of staff in the use of the device in order to get the necessary use of it. Both technical knowledge and knowledge of work practices need to be increased in management and planning and participation in telecommunications. It was noted that the Council's Management Board is working to find out which locations are equipped with tools and solutions for telecommunications. There was a view to the need for security when discussing telecommunications in the management board on telecommunications, in particular on the sharing of data and document reviews associated with telecommunications. The Committee's meetings also discussed the content of a coordinated European Commission Regulation for the Council of the Management Board, whether certain conditions should be set for the maintenance of telecommunications or excluding specific meetings. The Committee also provided a view that in addition to the rules of action, it is important that a policy to be developed for telecommunications from the European Commission, which may be part of further policy-making and access to the administration. In view of this, the Commission suggests that, in addition to developing and implementing procedures, there is a policy structure. The Commission believes that it is important to consider the suitability of technical instruments and, after the events of knowledge and training, how to manage telecommunications as a practical option. According to the Parliamentary arrangement, Prime Ministers are expected to appoint a team of workers who recommend procedure and implement a new work programme. The Commission believes, as previously stated, that there will be a policy for a telecommunications policy taken to Iceland's Management Board and thus suggest the adjustment of its proposal. Following the shape of the policy, the task force provides suggestions on the input of integrated policy rules. The committee feels that the staff would naturally review the recruitment process and what demands must be made for telecommunications and access to their suggestions. I have now traced what is directly involved in the Congress resolution as it lay ahead and the adjustment proposed by the committee. In addition, the committee discussed other government events. The Committee established a view that the use of telecommunications or broadcasts is desirable and that organisations represent more events than standard meetings. Government agencies are often organized conferences or other knowledge and consultations that are important for as many people as possible to observe or participate, regardless of their location. For example, participation in such events can be made easier by sending their program out live or electronically available through recordings of such events. The Commission agrees with these views and encourages the government to consider making conferences and other events more accessible through increased technology. In addition, the Commission discussed some of the situation at the General Assembly, but to the Committee it was discussed that despite the development of the proposal, Iceland's Management Board and the Ministry had to expand their use of telecommunications in other institutions to facilitate access to those outside the capital area for communication and services. In this regard, for example, the meeting of the General Assembly committees was discussed and how to expand and improve the use of telecommunications in meeting committees. The committee believes that it is important that the government agencies work hard to promote good relations, including those in the United States. by offering a telecommunication when appropriate. The Commission gives particular attention to the opinions of the General on telecommunications committees in which the same viewpoint applies to the relations of members, companies, organizations and rural groups and has been traced to the Council of Government. A panel's computer software, Skype for busness, may have recently become active. Now I have personally experienced keeping telecommunications through that building of the Generals. Back to the committee's opinion and to the new proposal. I was just going to read the proposal as she now sounds: ▪ The General concluded to assign prime minister to implement the Council's Department of Directors on telecommunications in order to facilitate institutions, rural governments, and other bodies across all parts of the country interacting with the Ministry. Ministers of a task force making recommendations for procedures and implementing a new action plan. The secretary would like to introduce the results of the work group to the General Assembly no later than November 1, 2018 Underneath the publications of Linniika Anna Sævarsdóttir, Chairman Helga Helgadóttir Geppsson, Jón Þór Odor Valdimarsson, Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, Óli Björn Kárason Þórunn Egilsdóttir writes under warrant for 4 mg. 18th par. Coral regulations of regular committees. Brigs Níelsson and Þorsteinn Sæmundsson were away at the hearing.
