ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-13.u1	A letter from Gunnar Brani Sveinsson and Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir said they can't attend next week. So Monday, October 1st, at Arms 1 of the Central Party in Southvest, took up residence. "Una María Óskarsdóttir. Yesterday, on Monday, October 8th, at the General Assembly of II, a deputy of the South's Front Party List, Jóhann Friðrik Friðriksson, who has announced a prelude to the 1st district. There have been letters received by the chairman of the Independence Party on behalf of Haraldur's son Benediktsson, the president of the Central Party Council on behalf of Bergþór Ólason's son and the vice president of the party of Pirata on behalf of the Ævarsdóttir Avard so that they will not be able to act as members of Congress in the future. So yesterday, on Monday, October 8, they were seated at the General Assembly for the 1st of the Independence Party in Norway. "Thol Björn Einarsson, Special Agent 1 of the Central Party Arts of Norway. Jón Þór Þorvaldsson, and 2nd Specialist on Pirata's list in Evolution. So, Snæbjörn Brynjarsson, while the 1st of the U.S.A. list has announced a pastime. They have all, except for the senator's deputy, formerly took up residence at the General Assembly and are welcome back to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-13.u2	The letter of Jóhann Friðrik Friurik's Friðriksson has already been investigated and accepted, but he has not previously taken his place in the General Assembly, so his commitment to the Constitution is to be signed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-13.u3	Jóhann Friðrik Friðriksson has signed a solemn pledge to the Constitution and is welcomed to serve at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-13.u4	The president has received a letter on the reinstatement. Hanna Katrín Friðriksson calls back a bill on the threshing floor. 46 cases, 46 cases, of foreigners.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-13.u5	Borist has received a letter from the following hired advisers who are requested to provide written answers to queries; from financial and economic secretary for requests. 129, about the repair cost from Sigmundur, Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, J. 66, for the writing of the originals of bonds, from Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Issu, and for the threshing floor. 166, about changes in taxes and charges, from Óli Björn Kárason. From the Sea Scourge and Agriculture Minister for the Scourge. 73, on the use of fishing devices, from Ari Trausti Guðmundsson. Finally, from transport and local minister for the application of decks. 123, about driving school and dirt roads, from Teitur Björn Einarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-13.u6	Consider: Prime Ministers, Education and Culture Ministers, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Sea diffusion and Agriculture Ministers, Environmental and Resource Ministers and Transport and Regional Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-13.u7	Mr. President. In recent days much more has been discussed than the television program Hick, which dealt with fraud and cheating in an Icelandic labour market. V.E.G. The minister of social and equal rights went on to tell the show Silverf on Sunday that the situation of these cases would be somewhat surprising to him. I want less than ever. Minister has a special debate about the fraud and cheating of a labour market held in this room, my initiative, over eight months ago. It seems that little has changed since then, except for the work on employees'rent and chain responsibilities in the construction industry, which had truly come to light but is not enough to handle this serious situation. In special discussions over eight months ago, everyone in this hall was clear, and she has not improved. What kind of community does it tolerate for months when people are robbed of their wages? In addition, does business ventures allow more money and further competition with deception and theft and cost more money for sleeping space? Clearly, there is a lack of perspective and responsibility. Has the highest. A minister to create a series of tests in the situation of a foreign labor force in this country? Is there any adjustment proposal to the budget so that agencies and police departments have funds to do their job in this regard? How are you planning to go to the top? Ministers make sure that an enterprise can never profit from wrongdoing, but it carries a lot of financial damage?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-13.u8	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Oddný G. The Harðardóttir daughter of the inquiry. I'm very impressed with the discussion as a matter of course. A senator had that issue earlier this year. In this discussion, the bill was specifically discussed on employee rents and chain responsibilities, and it received penances in that subject. Since that discussion took place, the bill has entered the council and became the law of the last spring. With them, we worked very hard on all the legal groups, and we moved the employment agency to provide additional sources that have already been used. The remaining ones of this year have a work force, e.g. Take more patrols than she did last year. So we can see when they come up. On the other hand, what's right is right. A senator that can do better if he has to. That's why we have even. I think about it as a matter of course. A senator came in on rents and how employment contracts and relationships are about rent rents. That is what we have seen in our discussions about that matter. We have also announced that work is being done between the two parties involved, not only at the labour market, not only in the workforce, but also the labour market organization, as well as the police and the tax authorities. Preparation and integrated measures, both integrated measures that will be involved, the parties together, and the same as to discuss further legislation and possible complications. So all I expect is that we will see action in that direction when that work comes forward. But there is a tremendous cooperation with the labor movement and the workforce, and especially the labor movement. We've stressed it, and we'll do it from now on.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-13.u9	Mr. President. I hear the highest. A minister is wholly willing to take care of these matters. Also, he was all willing to do more than eight months ago, but no cheating has been done. Can we be sure that after another eight months, governments have taken steps in these matters, and the ill part of the Icelandic labour market is restored to health? Can we be sure that we have responded to ASI's pleas that there will be legal penalties and fines on pay thefts, that the chain responsibility for the entire labour market, that there will be a break-off of landmarks, that surveillance will be effective, and that those who want to get their rights will be supported and protected, not just the labor movement, but the community?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-13.u10	A respectable president. I'd like to say that since these matters were discussed last time, we've approved new laws that were just done with the labor movement. These laws went into effect on autumn days, so people start working on them. Regarding putting increased power on these matters, I recall again that this year's employment agency has already taken more patrols than it did all year before, and it's not over yet. Work's started, including. in cooperation with the labor movement, to discuss further measures aimed at setting repairs for serious violations for the staff sector and not only in general but in the labour market. That is already under discussion. Has even. The discussion of how it should be done, in what way, the procedure to be used, has been started because we are to take further steps in this regard. I expect support from the wind. A senator would thank you for that. This is extremely important, and we're supposed to get along.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-13.u11	A respectable president. This afternoon, the Council will submit a European Parliamentary proposal for transport by 2019-2023. This is where the current government's policy is in flying matters. I was standing here last in the public address on April 26th. asked the highest. Secretary of transportation for the government's policy on air. I received the answer that much too little would have been done for far too long to improve the state of Iceland's national and backup flight systems and now it's impossible to sit by. The fact is, however, that less than six months later, we are in bed. Government policy, according to a transport programme, is to maintain the flying system in absolute financial control. There is no plan that a spare airport for the Cheflavík Airport could perform its role, i.e. They continue to be primitive, and the more than 10 million passengers who travel through Cheflavor Airport each year will live with the fact that their safety is not guaranteed. Three times during the past 18 months, a crisis has occurred as a result of extensive air traffic, weather, and poor weather conditions in Iceland. Of course, construction at the airport gate and highways means a lot of money. However, it should be held that the flying industry is now less than 20% of the gross domestic product and has increased from more than 6% since 2010 without the growth of the State's contributions in accordance with industrial contributions to the population. It stands to reason, then, that a well-designed synopsis claims that none of the national airports, including the airports in Reykjavík, Akureyri, and Egls, are self-sustained. It seems to be an advantage to justify the money. It is inconsistency with the results of cost-benefit analysis in the 2014 State Department report. It shows that national interest in investments in the international airport system over expenses is 48%, yet since then the flying industry has grown tremendously. So I ask the highest. Minister to see if the government's policy is starving the flying and flying system in Iceland, taking the risk and responsibility that there will be a disaster on a flight that could be avoided by the decision to move forward to the modern national aircraft. [[The president calls.]] Furthermore, I ask about the job contract of Istavia ohf. and the state. Do Istavia have a signed business as a result of flying tickets owned by the State?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-13.u12	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Þorvaldsson for the inquiry. We share anxiety over the fact that the situation is not better than we can see. We had an excellent conversation in spring, where we crossed that position. The transport program discusses exactly some of the advantages we are facing, and some of these options have not been fully explored. It's very detailed in the transport program, and I know why. A senator will be able to read about it and may be able to listen to my story later today or evening, whenever it will be, and to participate in discussions about the matter. That'll give you a better chance than at this brief time here. The fact of the budget is that last year, if I remember correctly, we make contributions to the flight by about 340 million. Next year an increase of 350 million is being made. The support for flights leaves 1.8 billion to 2.5 billion in 2019, so we are indeed reacting. What is then covered in a transport program is that the conclusion of a building committee, of the domestic future, and of the Isavia owner's policy, which has been working for several months may provide the results. A senator was calling for Istavia to take over the international trajectory or at the ownery's conference plans to pay a certain amount of money to the state as a cover to the international airports. It is also true that the airlines will need to be discussed with them on the price of a second airport. There is clear benefit to the airlines and security that there are safe backup airports in Iceland. This is of benefit because it is far less expensive to land in this country than having reserve airports in other countries and thus carrying more fuel. [[The president calls.]] I couldn't answer all the questions. A senator who tries to do so in the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-13.u13	A respectable president. This is not a hobby for professional pilots. The case is very serious. It is so serious that on September 19, IFALPA, an international organization of pilots, saw reason for this. to provide a safety reference to those using the Cheflavour Airport based on circumstances that were created three days earlier, on the 16th day of the year. At the conclusion of this recommendation, it is noted that limited airports on our backup airports have become real danger, and they offer direct recommendations to the head of international aircraft to consider whether to use these airports in general and at least carry extra fuel to cope with them. It's true what's going on at the highest. Transporter's growth in donations is not in any agreement with what needs to be done. It refers to a minimum of 700 million each year to maintain the present state and value of workers at that airport. [[The president calls.]] To improve, we need at least Yet, there are 1,250 million who are not enough to improve the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-13.u14	A respectable president. Of course, we can debate what's enough. I agree with what. A senator would certainly need more money to get things done faster and to get them back to what we want them to look for. But it's a fact that's being greatly improved. I also think about whether we in this talk chair, in political discussions, take as seriously as air security is concerned. It is simply so that flight security is quite good here in Iceland and even in the opinion of all the international bodies involved, although it is certainly possible to develop isolated cases that are called for to be repaired and added. In general, air security is very high here in Iceland, the airports are good, Istavia is good, the airlines are good, the pilots controlling the aircraft are safe. [[The president calls.]] It is very important that these talks are not creating unnecessary fears that the situation is not safe here. It certainly is, there is a very safe flight in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-13.u15	A respectable president. Quarter for the 2016 General election set the district attorney in the capital area a ban on the news coverage of the hour, then discussing financial matters for the then prime minister and for the current highest level. Economic and economic ministers, Bjarni Benediktsson's son, in the context of the 2008 economic collapse. Of course, the law was severely criticized at that time, for it is shocking to say otherwise. The decision on the law went before the city of Reykjavík, which was in favor of the hour's decision, at which point it was appealed to the National Court. On October 5th. Confirm the National Court's decision. It was evident then, as in earlier times, that the discussion was very important to the public. That conclusion must tell a story. But speaking of history. In 2010, the General Assembly adopted Birgitta Jónsdóttir, who was then born. A senator, and others on the fact that Iceland created a legal position for the protection of expression and information freedom in the case of No. 383 at the 138th legislature. Eight years have passed since then. Still there are the bills that the assumption did not come about, and it has long been very exhausting. Since the resolution of the General Assembly, however, Iceland has been reduced again according to international guidelines on freedom of expression. This isn't the first time we've warned about it in this child. Again to the court's judgment. After the restraining order, Porta's party proposed a bill suggesting that no ban can be made on a media station except by court appearance. That's why I want to ask the highest. Prime Minister, in view of the recent judgments in the aforementioned legal code of Glitnis HoldCo versus the hour: The Minister's opinion must change the laws of quietness, regulations, etc. to prevent the freedom of expression in Iceland from coming back to that pattern of damage and halting the way it did for general elections?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-13.u16	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the important question. Early in this year, I appointed a group of people to discuss even those issues. That conclusion, the IMMI resolution in the everyday speech of a committee, which is what it is. A senator referred to, i.e. A resolution on the protection of freedom of expression, and I can't exactly remember the last part of its full name in the Icelandic language, but the IMMI resolution, let's call it. That group has been working, and it's fun to say why. A senator from the time he gives up five primes at the end of this week and introduces them. They will then be inserted into the Board of Directors' mystery. They have bills that even exist. In connection with host's responsibility, data protection, delinquency, administrative laws regarding confidentiality and the freedom of expression by public employees. The second part of the project, defined immediately when the group was appointed, reviews the information laws and specifically reviews the law on bans. One day we'll have what? A senator before discussed this matter at the council Hall, and it is my opinion that the law needs to be changed, that there is natural law to go directly to the courts, that is the natural way rather than to the county, and from there to the courts as we have seen. That's been my opinion and my opinion of those matters. However, I have requested that the group, led by Eiríkur Jónsson, attend Professor of the University of Iceland, give birth to a bill. This is the Conference Committee of some councils; the Ministry of Justice, which handles these laws, the Ministry of Education, which handles the issues of the media and of the Department of Transport and Transport, which includes. has a network security issue. I'm expecting the bill fags from that group as far as they are concerned right now in spring mist. Since the proconsuls are in December, I rejoice greatly if they are now speaking in the middle of the month so that opportunities will be made to influence their content. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-13.u17	A respectable president. First, I must correct something that I wrote wrong in my notes. Of course, it was 2017, not 2016. I welcome the highest answer. Prime Minister and thank you for your efforts. I'd like to make a decision, though, that we've fallen behind and we've stopped sitting down since this convention -- and when we finally pick up the ball we've lost again because it's not a thing since that motion was approved. What matters with freedom of expression change, not terribly fast, but over time they change because of information technology, and because new things are constantly taking place that create new challenges. The specified restraining order is, for example, Something I would have thought was impossible before it happened. [[The president calls.]] But there are so many things that it is impossible until it becomes possible and becomes real. I welcome the highest answer. Prime Minister and encourage him in the seminary.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-13.u18	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator again. I'd like to say, though, I consider this to be considerably more than effort, I view it as action. I'd like to recollect, because of what. A senator recalls an excellent suggestion of an ex-wife. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir, said that her influence was on the bill that later became a law on the media in 2011. It included a number of factors that were rooted directly in the suggestion, including protection. The independent editory and the protection of journalists so that when they returned that proposal, to some extent, into the law. However, it is important to go over the media law again over the next few years, including the following two. depending on the viewpoints as it is. A senator describes. I reiterate that these five cases will be presented and introduced in October. They're on a Senate file in December. The committee has passed all the time, so I hope to include. A bill on the ban and review of information laws and the protection of informers will be held in the spring Summit. Then we should see significant progress in all the matters pertaining to the freedom of expression and information, which is as much of my interests as mys. Senator. [[The president calls.]] I think it's very important that we achieve a good solid solidarity at the council to do better in this regard. I agree with what. A senator says that we all have the means to stand ready in that area.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-13.u19	A respectable president. I'm going to direct my business to the highest. Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for disabled children's issues. This weekend, the main meeting of Iceland's Institute of Development ended, and the issues of disabled children were particularly discussed. I'm going to refer to a report and I'm going to conclude from there: A major failure has been the cooperation of health and well - being and educational systems. It's been a long time for children to drop from one system to another. Small or no resources are available to them. This has to change. The European Commission is restricted by the government to ensure continuous service to children and cooperation between the systems of children's well - being. Many children are released from sports and hobbies, especially when they are older. Mental - health services in young people have been limited, and this service is difficult to approach. Mental - health care services have been improved, but they can be done better if necessary. Clearly, the needs of all children cannot be met, but there is a waiting period in a special way. The European Union of Generosity on the Government will take part in the fact that psychological services will be part of the general health system in order to meet the needs of smaller families. The importance of early intervention must be guided in all the child - care options. I would especially like to point out that there are no options and that have not been in the discussion, which affects children of disabled parents. It must also be taken into account. I noticed that there were anxious, disabled parents, who have healthy children who need to carry heavier burdens, but it is natural for these children to have to do so. I want to ask a minister: What is he doing and what does he want to do? This is the case because it is children who are very uncomfortable.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-13.u20	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Guðmundur of the Ingi Kristinsson query, and I'd like to say that we really need to make some changes. Hv. A member of the U.S. National Institutes of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Education and, in fact, other problems, are not well-sufficient. It is extremely important that we make changes in the welfare system to ensure that the windows in the system described by the senator are closed and bridged. Therefore, it is most enjoyable that today was the first meeting of a transnational group of members of Congress that I have assigned to review all social setting in the affairs of children. That meeting was held for lunch and why. A senator has a seat in that group. I expect much of that work because we certainly need to make changes in the welfare system so that children don't fall between systems, as we have been. In particular, there are early interventions in the lives of disabled children who have parents who need social support for various factors. I expect a lot of that job. I agree with what. A senator, must take action regarding the activities of disabled children. I mention even. A project that we started with an Ithian relationship earlier this year that aims to map and penetrate firmly when it comes to supporting sports children. [[The president calls.]] I cannot answer the questions about the children of disabled parents, and I will answer them in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-13.u21	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. But more is needed. We need to make sure that children with disability and disorders have something to say. We cannot always say that we are right and that what we do is right because conversations are missing children who live with disability. I speak from my own experience. I've had a disabled child, and I know what it's like. What beats me most is that everything remains unchanged to this day. We must realize that babies are born disabled, later may become disabled because of failure of the system. What, then, are we talking about? Despair of the future. We are always talking about mental individuals, that this has become the main reason for disability. But we have to start in the right place. We have to increase the psychology show. We have to start right away if we're gonna stop this, don't do it afterwards.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-13.u22	A respectable president. I totally agree with what. Senator. The next year, we will contribute a great deal to a number of relevant activities, both in children with special needs and in the same way in support of children in general. This is shown in a budget bill now performed at the council. Then I agree with that. A senator says we need real system changes in that situation. There will be a person in every part of the community, but the problem is that it enters many systems. This will fit into some departments, some agencies, between administration levels, rural society and state, and we need a whole new approach and a new thought. I hope that today's Senate Committee has the courage and courage to be a bit radical in its ideas about changes in the system because we have to put our children in first place and we need to change our entire welfare system in the same way. As soon as I thank you for the inquiry, I challenge it. A senator must think radically enough of the committee he started today.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-13.u23	President. I'd like to direct a question to the highest level. Social and equal Affairs Ministers involved in the social subsidies of the labour market. The recent media coverage shows the most serious problem we face. This is not a new problem, it has been known for years here in the labour market. Of course, the wrongdoing that was described there was nothing more than an organized violation of wrongdoing. Sadly, the problem seems to be often there that it does not matter what legal procedures are taken or guilty because of the firm will of the individual involved. Therefore, we rely heavily on monitoring the activities of the same people. A minister has now introduced his plans for the establishment of a working group to help protect against social subsidiary programs in the labour market. In fact, it is interesting to observe the government, for it seems to be a special amateur for the establishment of groups of workers on extraordinary numbers of subjects, even forming groups of work to explore previous working groups. We need action here. I don't think that in itself we need to spend a lot of time realizing that urgent action is needed and, in particular, the need is to coordinate and strengthen government surveillance. It may not need a long report, I think the information that has been identified there is well known. It was, for example. In the past government, it is a pleasure to increase funding for the work programme and the workforce to strengthen the monitoring programme. According to a minister, it has paid off during an increased frequency of observation visits, which is a core issue to address the wrongdoing described here. It's also interesting to watch the difference. We saw a news transfer today that nine employees had been suspected of cheating by exposing counterfeit IDs. They were arrested at the same time, but at the same time, we will make plans for professional violations against employees without apparent action. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking the highest. Minister: What will a minister do already to strengthen the monitoring involved?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-13.u24	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for which, as the senator entered, says we have taken various steps. In June, new laws were adopted to sharpen everything involved in hard renting, chain responsibility, and so forth. They have already come into effect, and a part of them actually went into effect on autumn days, so people are walking in that way. There is a great deal of guilt that the Labour Office can offer. enterprises which do not cooperate with the Agency in their monitoring activities. Then it's as if we've been, and we're talking about calling all the members of the board, which is a proposal adopted by the government three weeks ago, not only under the Ministry of Social Affairs, but we also have the job and innovation and the Ministry, we've got the police and the tax with the labour market agents, to form how we're going to take common action, how we're going together to strengthen the support between our institutions. That's what's going on. It was only Friday that the last appointment was due to come to the group to form it. True, some appointments were needed and are being pressed, but I hope that the group can meet as soon as possible so that, first of all, the same action can be triggered. It's number one. Second, it is to prepare and discuss whether there is no reason to impose severe penalties on those who repeatedly engage in serious activities, as we saw in a television program. I'm telling you right now, we've taken action. We're taking action. We're gonna go for a second. A senator will agree that it has to happen. But the key point is that people involved are not working together because otherwise the pulse is not great enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-13.u25	A respectable president. I don't think it's necessary to wait for the results of a group to assign relevant surveillance to a joint patrol. That's what's been called after years, but it's been done in the public system, and I think that's the only way to cooperate. Minister at the highest. Secretary of finance, for example, and the highest. Work secretary, as well, to coordinate this surveillance. This may lead to another question: Is there any budget in next year's budget to intensify or promote such a checkup? I can't quite find it. But there's something else I'd like to hear from the highest. Minister's gonna go in a little bit. It describes this great difference of power between employers and non - workers of foreign origin who know their rights poorly. The most fragile group there is people outside the EEA, and in fact, they create their professional rights to their employer, not their own rights, and there I miss the policy of this government very much. The first government, e.g. a high priority on the simple spending of jobs outside the European Economic Area and also the recognition of the rights and knowledge of these people, but I find no evidence in the Government Treaty that the current government has some ambition in these matters. [[The president calls.]] It'd be fine if it was the highest. A minister could only instruct us about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-13.u26	A respectable president. Just like what? A senator has been called after years to say that man is having an integrated operation. That's what's been called what's been called what's happening ever since. A senator was the chairman of SA and even. Minister of this seminar class - Director. [[Up front.]] Therefore, it is a pleasure to be on the road to call everyone to the table to prepare for such a meal. There's a senator calling for it. I think we both should be able to celebrate that exactly what's happening. This is exactly what the proposal made to the government three or four weeks ago and was agreed to there, but in it it, which includes. Secretary of finance, representative of the Ministry of Professional and Development, Ministers and Department of Social Affairs, and all agreed to the proposal. The suggestion involves engaging in integrated actions. Of course, if talking with a person is a means of funding in this regard, it should be possible to follow through. This is extremely important. We're supposed to deal with it, and it doesn't matter whether we're individuals inside or outside the EEA, we're going to have to do the same.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-13.u27	We must be careful about building fish farms, a business that is right on the feet of children now. This voice is heard in many places during the discussion of fish farming. Furthermore, voices are heard that we should be careful, learn from the experience of others, and take care that nature should enjoy the doubt. All of these are the advice I can share. I don't need to reenact the daring dance that began when the decision came from the Environmental and Resource Committee of Days and how it affected the communities in the West. The prospect of a resurrection of society and the building up of professional life has been set up there. Two hundred people on the south side of the West are working directly on fish farms and probably 100 on secondary jobs. Then we're talking about over 400 people when we figure out who's involved. I'm going to have a Senate after seeing how long - awaited expectations that have diminished every hiccup in the system these past few days translates for my communities. It is frequent, though calm is over all years. When the political system that we have created stops working, we need to respond. So I want to direct my case to the highest. Environment and resource minister. The Environmental and Resource Evaluation Committee fell from the value of two fish farms that have salmon farms in the marine environment on the West. Now it's in the power of the highest power. Environment Minister to issue temporary work permit to secure operations while these issues are being established. Take care of the highest. Environment Minister working to allow temporary licences to be issued? When can they be expected? And on the one hand, what's the highest attitude. The environmental minister to build salmon in this country, and what does the Minister provide for this work?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-13.u28	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator very much for his inquiry. In fact, in matters that the senator entered and failed, there have been two kinds of legislation in the past few weeks. Others turn to the ministry I run, and they have permission to do as noted. For the legislation that is under my office, the laws on the method of loyalty and pollution, there is the possibility of applying for a license. In fact, it's a solution, even. The decision made by the decision made by the decision of the decision. Friday, which could possibly be considered for the companies to apply in the existing position. I would like to report that there was a meeting yesterday at the EEA, the Organization, and the Food Organization with the European Commission that covered the situation and that it is really the EEA's job to guide the executives on who can be the next step, discuss with them the options that exist. I haven't gotten in on my table, that was at least Not yet, not yet, not an application for not being given. It is therefore difficult to answer, and of course I cannot answer, but it has been pointed out that the time such a device could last for two or three weeks or so. I think I'm going to have to answer about my position and the circumstances in my reply afterwards to what. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-13.u29	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The minister's answer is looking forward to hearing the answer to the second question. It's getting a little narrow when a business in a business needs organic permission running, which wakes up when courts come down their feet. It can be very difficult as it has been, and I encourage environmental ministers to work on it quickly. I look forward to the answer later.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-13.u30	A respectable president. First, the minister who follows the Treaty, if I quite remember this, will be working on the development of fish farming so that it will fit in with the most environmental and natural protection policies. I think we need to develop our fish farm more through methods that will have less impact on the environment. In particular, I have in mind wild salmon from all over the country and think that in the future we need to aim for more methods, develop dry farms, develop land fires, develop farms that may be contained in seashells, but it takes all time. This is the long-term development that I think we should look more into so that we can actually say that our fish farms are developing toward the most sustainable of all in our fine country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-13.u31	V.E.G. President. I would like to draw attention to the open platform. Migraines are open here. It's not a custom to silence people, although they have news that bothers someone in here. That's why I'm sorry to be the highest. A secretary of transportation was to get information that is important from a professional who knows who knows who knows, instead of being reassuring and telling of where there is work in the Ministry to fix what is suggested, choosing to shoot the messenger and say that it adds to the fears of the citizens of Iceland's air security. It is by no means impossible for ministers to be discreet when it comes to information that is relevant to them. I don't understand, chief. President, that's the game.
