ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u1	To answer these questions: Economic and economic ministers, travel, industrial and innovation ministers, marine emissary and agricultural ministers, foreign ministers, and secretary of transportation and rural government.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u2	A respectable president. A few days ago, I asked the highest. Foreign Minister to the European Union's so-called third energy package. It's like the highest. I'm sure the minister was rather upset, had no idea what he should feel about this packet of energy, and would, in particular, taught me that I had not used myself enough at the time for the increase in foreign funds, if I understood him correctly. At that time, the minister was not the foremost among those who wanted to increase such contributions. The reason I come up here today to ask the highest. In this case, the Minister of Industrial Affairs is that I'm hoping that the Minister of the Legal Party in the country will have a clearer answer for me as to what is expected by the government on this third energy package. I'm asking the highest. Minister: What is the position of the Minister to the EU's third energy package and its induction? Now is the time to ask, for it is not later good for us to take steps or at least portrays the position of the Icelandic government and begins to work in accordance with that position, starts to work for Iceland to receive an exception from these regulations. Recently, some people have expressed themselves on this matter, speaking people. A prominent law professor warned Icelanders that we are doing this, giving up part of the sovereignty and controlling national energy interests, in many areas. Icelandic lawyers have done the same. The head of Union Garden Prayer believes that this will actually put off his industry, affect food production in the country in general, and so on. In any case, it is clear that there will be no complete uncertainty about the handling of this matter by the government. So I hope to the highest. Minister will give me a clearer answer than I received from the highest level. Secretary of state a few days ago.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u3	They were very clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u4	Mr. President. Thank you. The chairman of the inquiry will try to answer it clearly. I thought answers were the best. Secretary of state is not as vague as any. Senator. The incredible uncertainty of the night. A senator tries to come only to the point of considering the matter more closely than has been done, including the following: Because I have listened to the anxieties people have raised and all kinds of questions we have tried to answer. Some answers simply do not want to hear and continue to say things that are wrong. I'm not saying that. A senator is doing so, but some are doing so during the discussion. No matter what information you bring, you talk down to people who know the most about it. I don't think it's a good thing, but everything's fine. We have worked hard to present information and facts. Because of what? A senator specifically mentioned the chairman of Union Garden Prayer that I say only that it is a great responsibility to appear and say that an entire industry can be out if a person introduces certain regulations and regulations from the European Union. This case has been in the system long before my time. I was just starting law school when it started. I've been to the council with all the information that's been inside the system. To be honest, it's okay to point out that those who are now the head of the council hall, boy. paritaprevir Sigmur, Davíð Gunnlaugsson. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson has a considerable share in the length of the case and never asked anyone to leave the two regulations. There was a request for a reserve from another gas directive because it's not gas. I also want to prove that there is a problem with the fact that there are not many people who are fighting for it. The reason for fighting for it is that it is not so important. [[The president calls.]] In the end, it's about the EEA deal. If you're going to take a trip and say they're not going to do this, it's gonna affect the EEA deal. [[The president calls.]] Then you have to be ready for that expedition, and I'm not saying I'm not ready for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u5	A respectable president. Right when I thought the Minister was making the final answer turned around and pointed out that there was a possibility she could be willing to take up a fight against the EEA deal so that I'm still nowhere. V.E.G. One minister explains that the Ministry has been trying to explain matters to people, but these explanations seem to focus mainly on trying to explain why this is not to worry about, in other words, why should it be introduced? V.E.G. Also, a minister noted that the matter had been in the system for a long time, so any who have been employed in Icelandic government could be taught that the minister did not trust to state matters clearly right now. But the longer it's been in the system, the more information you must have, the cause, the reason and the ability to determine how to approach this subject. That does not mean waiting until it is too late to do anything. After all these years the Minister mentioned being in a position to state clearly how the Icelandic government will approach this matter, whether or not they will allow it all to go through and continue to provide information about why it needs to be done, or will engage in a conflict with the EEA Convention referred to by the Minister or simply approach it in a reasonable way and do not implement this package.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u6	Mr. President. It's interesting to listen to what's happened. A senator says that we are now in a position to do the most. As I mentioned earlier, this case has been inside the system for many years. I came into the Ministry at the beginning of 2017, and a great many, including Yeah. A senator, who could have had much to say on the subject at an earlier stage, did nothing to try to include more people than we did at the time. It's also this way, and I think that everyone in this councilroom knows that when they're going to have something to say on the inside, when we receive orders and regulations, it's at the very first level of what it's done. How have they been handled in recent years? We are now putting money on top of securing our interests so that we have a better interests than ever before. It hasn't been that way for the past few years. But now it's here. Right away. A senator speaks of reason when it is clear to me in this matter. That's why we're also looking at it, and that's why I'm not going to stand up here and agree with everything. A senator is saying that he agrees with what he has directed to me. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u7	Mr. President. June 12th. was agreed with a synopsis proposal to hide a financial and economic minister to submit, no later than November 1, 2018, a bill to legalize the exchange of income taxes, as a guarantee of non-employment of pension. The suggestion is based on the view that individuals are considered to be taxed due to combustion, due to disability, mobility, or disease. The proposal was made by members of all political parties held at the General Assembly, including all members of Stockholm's council, who were particularly involved in the matter. The proposal was adopted by 56 joint votes. The integrity of this matter could not be clearer. It happened in the fall that the case did not appear on the Government Constitution. For that reason, I turned to September 27th. Unprepared inquiry to the minister on the situation. V.E.G. Minister, said he could answer the question to prepare the case and expect it to be as requested, as he spoke, ready for October, and then could appear before November 1. Add a minister to his thinking that the objective of the case was very noble and good. That statement, of course, comes out of November without the idea. So I ask the highest. Minister: Why is the bill not shown? Where is it? When can the General expect this bill to be submitted?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u8	A respectable president. I can make you happy. A senator by informing that the bill is ready and will be submitted to the council in the next few days. It is unfortunate that we have not been able to keep up with the deadline given in this June party resolution. There was the possibility that a council wasn't working last week, but it's only a matter of days when the matter will be submitted to the council. Then we will discuss whether we want certain payments, such as those covered by this bill, to be given the tax treatment taken care of. This would result in a variation from the general rule that the benefits will receive the same tax treatment. It has to be said at this point that there have been certain compensations, payments to those in any of the weakest positions, those who need special support because of circumstances that have developed in their lives. It is not difficult, therefore, to understand why such an exception was formed here at the council, and it will be presented in all the following days. Then we will take this discussion further. In general, I am a spokesman for the fact that we have taxes and spells, including income connections lower than when the strain needs to be broader. This does not prevent us from having a unique share in this principle.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u9	Mr. President. I thank the Minister for the answer. I can't quite say I look forward to seeing the bill because it sounds like some kind of hiccup on the Minister of this, which I'm not hearing here for the first time. But let's see. As I could, and as a minister, so is the will of the council in this matter very firm and clear. Therefore, I would like to use this little moment that I have here to ask the minister additional questions, if it is certainly not expected in the bill for the upcoming year's budget that there is a cost for the next year.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u10	A respectable president. The cost of the case is completely secondary, but it rests on both state funds and rural communities. Likely, the local community will have the opportunity to give a review because of the loss of income. But the total cost of the case for the government runs at a hundred million dollars.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u11	President. An Icelandic citizen, Haukur Hilmarsson, is thought to have fallen in Aphrin, Syria, in February. He was in Aphrin sometime before, but Turks have had authority in the area last known of him since February 24, in fact, the first FSA and Islamic members of the State, represented by Turks and Turks themselves. It is a relatively small area, just three or four square miles [3 km], hills between the towns of Bada and Dumilya, and there seems to be no real structure, only one building, and between villages only about half an hour of passage - this is not such a difficult region of geographic location. In May. Confirming the death of Haukur by the Icelandic police, the Ministry of State has also been confirmed by Turkish government. International law states that the Turks should provide information about the consequences of the wars they are experiencing. The Icelandic state as well as the citizens of Haukur has the right to know what has happened to Haukur. Haukur's family has not received a clear answer to what has happened to him or to his remains. Someone must know, though. It is very unlikely that Turks who have had authority in the area during the past few months do not know what happened to those who died during the second month of the attack. Governments have asked directly what happened to the remains of the victims of the attack on February 24 C.E.? When I say directly, I do not mean whether or not the Tech has been discussed in Oslo or other diplomatic agents, but rather, whether the minister of foreign countries himself has used him specifically and demanded an answer from the Turkish government on the loss of the son of Haukur Hilmarsson. Has the minister demanded that he go into areas where the conflict was and those who were found there?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u12	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. As noted earlier, all routes have been sought to find out what happened to the son of Haukur, the son of Hilmarsson. We have been able to cooperate well with the police, but we have also sought the assistance of our major friends and have repeatedly sought the assistance of the Turkish government, as many have been reported in the media. Our fellow workers initially warned that the situation was extremely complex and difficult to obtain, and they tried to provide limited assistance. The Icelandic government has repeatedly requested information on the matter from the Turkish government and was confirmed by many means that the Federal government would count Haukur off. His family has been informed of this, as has all the other steps taken in the search for Haukur. We believe the civil service program is over for now, but police are investigating the matter as a missing persons. The Foreign Service will continue to have regular contact with representatives of the Turkish government in connection with this matter. The Icelandic government will also continue to speak for increased respect for human rights and international human rights in Turkey and elsewhere in two - side communication and internationally as possible to form at the United Nations, in the European Council, and in the UK. For this reason, the State Ministry of State strongly counsels the Icelanders not to travel to an uncertain area where governments can assist them in a very limited way. Civilians travel to such areas on their own responsibility and can assume that they will need to consult the nearest embassy, which may be some distance away to obtain civil service. Information on our neighboring countries'travel warnings is available on the Department of State's website, and Icelanders who have thought to travel to such areas are encouraged to study them.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u13	President. I thank the Minister for his answer, but I would still like to ask again because there's an Icelandic citizen. It is unacceptable that the truth cannot be found. Does the minister believe that he personally did everything in his power to find Haukur or his body if he is truly dead and that he will be brought home?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u14	A respectable president. I have done everything in my power to help in this matter. I have even. Talk it over with my colleagues in the countries we most agree with. I am certain that governments have gone as far as they have been concerned with us Icelanders. If there is anything we can do to help further with this difficult situation, we will do it. But we have sought all the ways in which we thought we could help in this difficult matter. If something comes up so that we can do more, we will, of course, do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u15	A respectable president. In 1997 the so - called church meeting between the State and the Church included exchange for the various earths, which no one really knows exactly which, in fact, would pay the Episcopal Office and the Christian Funds, which are defined including. to pay the clergy and the employees of the National Church. There is no time limit on these payments, i.e. The time when the State can stop paying. The price of the eight on the side, representing infinity, comes from the earth to which the Kingdom is to be acquired. These earths were literally unfathomable animals. This contract is so amazing that I can only conclude that it was their conscious decision that he would deprive generations of the future of the possibility of completely changing the ship of a church, with a change in the Constitution and a change in law alone. There is now negotiations between the highest. Secretary of finance and the church on financial relations between state and church. I'm worried about them because they scare me. In particular, I would like to state that I do not want the Minister's contract status and understand why it is not possible to give it publicly. But I'm going to let me ask you a question that I don't think under any circumstances should be part of a contract stand. It is whether permafrost or is even more responsible for the fundamental problems of 1997, i.e. To obtain an exhaustive resource, see Earth, in exchange for an inexhaustible financing. I'm asking the highest. Minister to two: Do negotiations with the State involve establishing the arrangement that the State is permanently committed to finance the church in exchange for exhaustive property? Second, will the Parliament have to confirm the agreements if they are made by law or by resolution?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u16	A respectable president. It is one of the main agreements with the church at this point to increase the church's freedom of making the money that the contracts in their time allow. This includes, for example, the following: that it is the government's will that there be further agreements on one of the total financial capitals that the church has greater self - worth on how the church's tasks are considered to be most important, rather than on the basis of all these categories of payment that we know according to the arrangement that has been established. In this I believe that there is an increased financial separation between church and state. Then there is something that leads to the agreements made at the time what the State's commitments have already been made. I am now made to believe that it is important for the government to negotiate what it has done for its own good. If the senator's question asks if we can cancel the contract and ask for any other conclusion, I think it's a little far-fetched. But if both parties want to reevaluate from a basic arrangement for the future, there is no basis in itself. But this is what was negotiated. They came to the State, and in return the State accepted a certain form of payment used by the church to carry out its work. The agreements this time focus on raising financial separation, on separating the commitments that the State has to the church and on what the state does with that money.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u17	A respectable president. I wasn't suggesting that the State stop making its deals. I, on the other hand, criticize this agreement because it is, in a single sense, shocking. Increasing financial separation is in my mind to stop funding the church over other religious and biological institutions permanently, although I had reason to believe that it is probably not possible according to the high-priority regulations that are currently in the Constitution, 62. "the law of the State Church." But I wanted to ask two questions. I understand the highest answer. Ministers in such a way that making this arrangement somehow unprovable does not involve the Minister's negotiations. Somehow, in the end, these government payments to the church will be paid for. I understand the highest. Minister like that. Second, I asked if the General would come to finish these contracts and establish their values before they went into effect. I find it very important that whatever changes may be made to them before the council, I ask them, in particular.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u18	A respectable president. With the presence of the council, I must admit that I do not have the answer completely clear as I stand here and now. I had thought that negotiations with the council were based on legal warrants to settle the contracts. If so, I don't see that the agreement as such is expected to come here, although the financial warrants provided by the contract commitments are always subject to the council's consent. Another factor is whether there is a valid conclusion. The senator that there is discrimination in the interests of one religion above any other in which there is a mutual compromise at the time - no matter what the subject matter of the agreement was made in burying the State, and a commitment was made to pay certain fees. It was an assessment of the time. If a person is going to permanently change the nature of his contract, he would likely have to make some huge amount for the future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u19	Mr. President. Official projects and public investments of various forms are a major part of government management and community management. The recent trend has been made clear that investments and public projects of various kinds are within the proposed schedule. It has become larger and more expensive than expected and has taken longer to do so. In itself, there is no reason to glean, such as we know them. There are new situations that are entirely out of modern times, you might say. We've got the hook in The Watermies. We have a museum in the Arts in Akureyri. We have a Vadalah tunnel, which leads from Eyjafjorda to Fjóska Valley. We have a new hospital hotel that hasn't opened yet, and this is how you might continue to count. I'd like to ask the minister what will happen to the conduct of the Council decision adopted by the council for us, in a crosspolitan agreement, and to assume two things, on the other hand, that the Minister will submit the proposed policies to the council in order to correct this, and, on the other hand, to establish a special position of cooperation with members of the system, as it were, the driving and professional situation, in order to implement it. What's the news on that subject?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u20	A respectable president. What's news about the case is that it's in progress, and I had it at last this week on my table and on my own. It's a two-way plagion proposal. It is on the one hand, that there is supposed to be ideas for reform here. I have to say, I think that regarding the program, we need to evaluate the arrangement we have today. I may not already be ready to say that we have a major offense in the arrangement we have, but we sometimes take risks with our eyes, such as the one we do. was indicated in the case of Vella-hiden walk. There we were just open eyes, actually not sharing in supporting that matter, but with open eyes the council made that decision, despite great risks and uncertainty, to leave. Then perhaps it is merely built up in the nature of a major project that much uncertainty is frequent and frequent. This also knows private people. Has anyone ever met a man who decided to take steps at his home that only exceeded his expenses? Has anyone been through it? Maybe himself? I think a lot of people are familiar with that. Of course, the same is true of the government. But the point is that there is sufficient preparation, that there is transparency, and there is an explanation of what has gone wrong, and thus there is an opportunity to learn from what happened and react. I'd like to mention one thing about this relationship. When such things happen in the environment that we are trying to work for today, we should take steps to make up for elsewhere so that we can, for example, make up for it. transport targets, credit targets, etc. Official financial law, then, is taken into account. Then it is the other factor that deals with this field of cooperation. That will be explained when I react to this council resolution as to how we see it coming.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u21	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. I can't help but be glad it's at least At the minister's table, although I am not just as happy that it takes that time and still doesn't see the end of it. Then I'd like to ask you again if the highest. The secretary of finance assumes that he will give extra money to those projects. It is important that there are funds to care for them, and there are small amounts of money to the benefits. All I wanted to do was come into my mind that I felt a certain surrender in a case of the highest order. Ministers, that such an opportunity was somehow inevitable, and men were familiar with it. Happily, there are ways to minimize such risks. In many lands, the very aim of reducing the risk has been to achieve very effective results, to map the risk much better. Then it is the most serious thing, and the minister correctly entered, that men go off with closed eyes, ensures a certain capital, establishes the position of completion of the project which will be done, and everyone knows it, much more expensive. [[The president calls.]] We must prevent public activities from being clear from the beginning, with open eyes, that all of the work being done is 100%. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Then they just know.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u22	They want to follow some government talks, such as government projects, that they are only ahead of schedule. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u23	A respectable president. I just agree with what. A senator that ensures that larger projects and projects are to be prepared to minimise the uncertainty and risks associated with the procedure. What I point to is that there is always some built - in uncertainty, and risks and external circumstances can change. There are many examples. Consider the example of Harpa. Harpi set out as a private project. I'm sure they had good plans, but everything went wrong. There was no need for public access at that stage. Then, when the government arrived, the work was again something far more extensive than what was anticipated. So I think we agree on all the basics, me and the reason. A senator, and we certainly have a huge project on the farsightings, in the coming years of which the importance is that there will be adequate maintenance and preparation. Here are two major issues: Hospitals on the one hand and Cheflavík Airport on the other, where the construction budget combined goes well over 100 billion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u24	Just a little bit: I want to protest, because it's been five minutes since we learned that there should be a vote on the case earlier. I think it's kind of short notice. There is no need for some special variation to end this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u25	President is taking over these decisions. However, there was a 3rd issue on the program, and a vote was offered according to the schedule, although it would have been about half an hour later in the event of corpses. It's customary to be paid votes on a case after 3. Um, if this discussion ends. But I'm sure that's what you're thinking.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u26	Mr. President. Tow and fun and refreshing men Can be found here on land yet, The strong in the field, and the strong in spirit, miserable in times of distress. It's worth starting this discussion about our boys on the opening lines of ThomsensGrímur poems. Because that's exactly what I'm calling for by this discussion, we're getting up to help boys in trouble. Truly, it seems that the young male has a real crisis here in our fine country. As soon as I thank the highest. Prime Minister for participating in this discussion, I would like to stress that I felt that it was necessary to direct my case to her, even if it might be a good reason for the arrival of other ministers. It is such an urgent problem and so serious that it must reach the ears and attention of the highest degree. Prime Minister. I could spend ten or 20 minutes reading data that clearly shows the bad standing of boys and young men but only skimming on a big one. Considering the rate of suicide, the proportion of men is 87% in 2015 in the youngest age group of 15-035 years. It has been observed that school graduates have an enormous number of reading skills. Or the fact that young men are only 30% of those who finish their university degrees, and men are now only 36% of those attending university. Well, the use of behavioural drugs among boys at basic schools, which are more than twice as common as among girls of the same age. That's when boys from high school are far more than girls. In recent years, increases in disability rates have been much faster among younger men than in women. And that's how you could continue to count. The percentage of men in elementary school has been dropping for decades and is now down to 17%. During the past 20 years, the percentage of men who are principals in basic school has failed to be 65%. Perhaps the increase in women's share could be a source of joy. When it comes to custody of children, it is by far the most common thing for parents to have shared custody of separation, but in the case of custody to the other person, the ratio is: One father has his child's custody against 58 mothers. The proportion of men among those who receive an unidentified judgment and complete penalties is about 90%. - It doesn't matter where your foot is killed. Something's very wrong. Mr. President. This list, however, contains only a sample of the facts that we face about the situation among the young man, shows that we cannot enjoy them. We cannot accept that young boys and young men will not find themselves and feel bad and that we will lose them inactivity, crime, drug abuse, disability, and unfortunately even suicide. - What's wrong? Mr. President. I would like to include some thoughts or suggestions in this discussion: Is there any father's image cards, houses, and shoes? Many would like to say so. The fathers or men will not be there, working too much, if they are absent. Teachers are by far the most female, the timeless of parents, the children being ignored, not listening to them, since their parents are so busy living in the present somewhere - out of town - at the gym, meeting their friends, taking courses, going to the sewing club, reading the circle, meeting important associates. Children are viewers at their parents'lives. Could it be that often in the course of a frequent negative and sometimes aggressive debate involving the male gender, which has been prominent in recent years, is having an effect here? What is the effect of this discussion on the identity of the young male? It's a worthwhile subject for research. A lot of computer use? Some say it's computers to teach how it's done. There's a hold on communication, in video games. Or might it be that many boys miss a role, that they get that kind of faith in themselves? To illustrate, in the past, young men began to build over their families and were now 20 years old. It made the role clear, the breadwinner's role, the ability to save, the ability to move on with one's own life. And what about the effects of pornography on hardened youth boys? Could it be that their sexual sense is distorted in some way? Is this how their ideas that they don't behave in sex matters? That they thus become unhappy and uncertain and believe that they are powerless? Or that the boys can't find themselves at school? It has often been suggested that girls and their strengths are rather tailored to school. Clearly, increased engineering is one of the things that need to be done better. [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. It will be interesting to learn what a vision is. Congress officials find these matters interesting and interesting to listen to their posts. The prime minister in these matters below.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u27	Mr. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason for bringing up this important subject. I think it's important that we start thinking about the foundation end. Why are we standing here at the General and discussing boys' positions? Yes, it is because our community is based on a certain sex system, where we see negative social effects in different ways in boys and girls as well as in the positive effect. Hv. A senator was here asking a number of questions, and this discussion was directed to me, for it certainly belongs to many members of the Children's Office. I think it's very important to remind in the context that in the Senate bill, an agent of the children is expected to get more information about the children's status, both boys and girls. We need to gather these data in a complete way so that we can make good decisions for the future. I'd like to start by saying I'm sharing worry with someone who showed up at night. the starter due to the prescriber's prescription for the paediatric population. According to the surgeon general's report, children in the United States receive more neuro-psychotic information than their peers in the North countries. That is true of both girls and boys. Boys are more likely to receive such drugs than girls in the country and in the rest of the north. In fact, the use of antidepressants in girls and boys up to the age of 14 is similar but increases in girls. The surgeon has considered these prescriptions and requested an explanation. Especially has the government expressed concern about the prescribing of opioids to both children and adults. We need to pay attention to the sexlike elements. A senator mentions as much as any of the class of friends. Who will be prescribed these medications? Are they perhaps boys of a very demanding social situation? Do we not also need to consider this aspect, and not just gender, when discussing it? I would like to mention what is important, that students in Iceland are well - off compared with other countries when it comes to well - being at school. When asked about the happiness of children in the worldwide World Health Organization survey in 2012 and the condition of 15 - year - old schoolchildren, Iceland was on a 4. 89% of the boys said they were doing well but 85% of girls. These issues are likely to differ considerably between the sexes. Of course, our mental - health problems today are one of the biggest problems of our times, and we are glad to consider them on the surface here at the General Assembly. We agreed to a mental - health program, we are funding a mental - health program now, and it is very important to increase the availability of a mental - health program. One of the things I would like to mention recently at a health - care conference is that it seems that men and boys are looking more closely for such services through technology. It is easier for them to use the technology to seek out a medical service that they hold back from doing by attending. I feel that to form, we should examine especially the potential for technology to further our support with young boys. Hv. A senator also mentioned academic matters, and it is true that boys are less likely to read for his benefit than girls. It is also associated with a discussion of dyslexia in general, but as we know, there is less reading in this country than in any other North country. Now the Minister of Education has put in a bill designed to be a great support for the publication of the book in this country, and I think it's important that we get more Icelandic stories for children and young people who are written in Icelandic society and about Icelandic realities. It is also important to think that reading and reading are not only about novels but also about history. What are young people reading? Is it not the material presented in other ways, e.g. On the Internet? Is the communal system what young people read today rather than stories? Do we need to consider what these things are like in the school system? Absolutely. I find it important to mention here that the Teacher Union has certainly arranged these issues, i.e. English and English skills of young people and both genders. The computer use that took place. A senator brings up differences, and we need to keep in mind that social networking seems to be more popular with girls, video games with boys. This is something we need to keep in mind when we pursue this course. Of course, it is important to examine the gender rates in school and out of school, and according to the studies we have worked together with OECD, the discontinuation rate from high school seems to be largely determined by social and psychological conditions. Therefore, it is important that we build access to psychologists for young people and such help. There is one factor in preventing an withdrawal. Negative discussion. I'm sorry, I can't finish my talk here, but it's very important that we think about it for a while. A senator mentioned the combination of pornography, an increased availability of pornography, and, therefore, a boy's awareness of what it means to be a man involved with the discussion that has developed around the #methoo revolution. [[The president calls.]] We cannot overlook the fact that sexual violence is indeed a problem in our society. [[The president calls.]] There, we do not just have to support girls. [[The president calls.]] We also need to support the boys and destroy the sex - related lesion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u28	Mr. President. We need to take care of our children and improve the circumstances of all children who are suffering from some kind of lack, whether materially or socially. It is important to have good data in the discussion about the status of children and the sex analysis to prepare actions. Research and analysis have examined the feelings and ways of youths for 8 to 10 years in which we have a good comparison between years and years. Studies have also been conducted in young people who are not high school students. The results show that girls are better at school than boys, but they feel significantly worse. Young people aged 16 in their school years who are out of high school feel worse than other students do. The surgeon's report on suicidal thoughts and suicide attempts in Icelandic youths last September shows that more young people claimed to have seriously considered suicide in 2016 than in the previous years, or 33% of girls and 23% boys in 2016, compared with 27% of girls and 23% boys in 2000. More girls than boys had attempted suicide. These are striking numbers. Shorter studies, which end in high school, are more appealing to boys than to girls. This is part of the sex system we've built up and have to attack. For example, boys engage in traditional male activities, such as trade, while women in traditional women's jobs, such as nursing and teaching, are taught at university. Men are more violent than women. Rather, they commit crimes and are more likely to fall at their own hands. These are not new truths, and they are based on an old - fashioned sex system that is bad for women but also for men. We need to take a closer look at our children, and there is an equal approach.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u29	Mr. President. First, I'd like to thank someone for taking this important and important matter into consideration. I'm going to use the short time that I have to talk about only one small part of what is easy to fix and easy to change for us and the minister they're about, and that's the system itself and how we deal with problems, not just young boys, though they're in much more part of the group of people I'm going to talk about. It is a direct pressure on young people in schools, elementary schools, and high school, people who are still a child in the sense of law, pressure from parents, and schools themselves to be diagnosed. There are no resources available for boys, and of course for girls, for high school problems, and for high school age. No support, no psychological support, nothing, until the diagnosis has arrived, until the stamp has arrived, there's something wrong with you. There's nothing done before. You don't start helping people until you've said, "You're worried, overactive. " You're gonna need a diagnosis like that. So are the pills. Then you'll get your help. Then you start helping with a psychiatrist. No analysis: no help for the analysis has arrived. It breaks down a self - image, especially young boys and girls, that the stamp should be at that age right away. These people are then far more likely to enter disability when they reach their age than those who come unscrupulous, stampless, out of school. Let's change it, grab on earlier, help people. So let's get access to psychologists before they're stamped, and we'll have to prescribe some of the pills.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u30	V.E.G. President. I'd like to thank you for bringing this important matter into the program. In my day, when I was young, the method was often used for young men who had stepped off the straight path to send them to sea. Thus, as an example, a man became numerous. It is therefore not to be distributed to the same degree today, although something is about it, the changed times do. When it comes to the problems of boys, it can be viewed from many viewpoints. A problem, such as reading ability, reading, missing school, and having a lack of behavior, is often a beginning of something that becomes an even bigger problem that may be difficult and costly to solve. I choose to call boys of men under 25. I'd like to point out some facts in this regard. According to the report on the website, every year it falls between 35 and 50 persons. Each year, about six young men 18◯25 years of age die from suicide. In the United States alone, one woman falls every two years for herself. Suicide is the most common cause of mortality in young men. The figures are the average of 1996◯2014. I'm not quite sure today those numbers would be all right. I suspect the number of people who died from drug abuse is quite some. All too many young men are sitting in this country's prisons. It is our responsibility as a community to do all we can to support our boys. Could it be that we've forgotten our boys? I'm not being held accountable. I'm encouraging the idea that we'll see what we can do. We need to take a special look at what causes the death of young men from school and must put forth effort to increase the reading and understanding of young men. [[The president calls.]] We've got to make sure we've got a lot of teenage league money, and we've got to get some treatments for young people.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u31	A respectable president. I'd like to thank the advert for the very needed conversation, but at the same time I feel very strongly about boys'uncontrolled positions in time and bed. Let us never forget that much of the number of boys is in good standing, and research shows that the well - being of young people is generally good in international comparison. Still, it puts us in a position to be able to intervene and take good care of all the children who are suffering or who are in trouble. Research shows different groups of young people in different fields, e.g. Based on gender and ethnicity. There is no one solution, and no one field to level the situation. All people who work with young people need to be aware of their assignments and work together. To enjoy and make use of their abilities, all children need opportunity to be part of and have a role. To be part of a group and groups, a family of friends, a class, a group, a community, a village, a nation, having a safe social relationship. Having a role involves having an opportunity to shoulder responsibility in line with age and maturity, thus becoming a gradual ruler and a responsible caregiver for their own lives. The biggest challenge we all have is to learn from ourselves. This proves to be difficult for individuals, and they need different support. Homes, schools, health care, social services, and hobbies support the individuals to develop, build toughness, and catch those who need support or are affected. Children's issues committee, organized by Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, has the right to revise their cooperation to ensure the early assistance of children in need of it. That's the way ahead. Finally, I want to thank you for the discussion on a day of harassment, November 8.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u32	A respectable president. I consider this to be part of a feminist discussion, a part of what is in our environment of differences, and to judge them for specific roles on the basis of gender, regardless of the individual's own will. I'm sorry, I don't have time to review all the factors. A senator mentioned his story. There were a number of them, and there were no doubt much to discuss. I'm still going to mention what I come to. Hv. One senator identified the absence of parental time as one possibility. I don't think that's why it's because it would probably bite the same amount on girls, I think. Hv. A senator also mentioned a lot of computer and video games. I think that might well be part of the explanation. In this regard, it is very important that we realize that video games are not the same. There are video games that make you feel more comfortable and that draw the attention of children from the world around you. There are also video games that teach and educate. I'm just going to advertise here on the way of the ◯Kerbal Space Program, which teaches people things in space science, and I'm most serious. It is educational material and electronic games, and the technology can be used to develop and help people deal with life or the future no matter what they want to do with it. I think it's important to mention it. We are going through some social changes, likely to a great extent because of technology, and these include changes in attitudes toward sex and sex, something else. A senator mentioned. I believe there's a lot to look at. But I like to think that I don't think that sexual awareness or attitudes were better before, as did the #methoo revolution that exposed the ancient view of sex and sexual behavior as evil and evil. We should look forward to that new era and need to have a more open discussion. It cannot be avoided to mention that pornography is also more accessible. It requires more specific instruction and also requires that the teacher himself be informed enough to capture the subject in the way of understanding the young generation. It is generally difficult, but it is possible. But as usual, there was not enough time to clear up the discussion. But I appreciate this important discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u33	Mr. President. First, I want to thank you for your need for this discussion. In this context, I think we should be careful to isolate it from sex and not focus on the bad situation of young boys in school. Let us just consider the general feelings of children in the school system. I don't think there's anything new under the sun when it comes to the progress of boys in education or sex ratios, but the main difference is when we look at the university level and the change in gender proportions there, that there are a lot more women who are reaching out today than it was 30 to 50 years ago. This may be the main explanation of this dramatic change, a much higher proportion of people who pursue university education and perhaps primarily women. Looking back at 30 years in regard to the disfellowshipped boys at high school, there seems to be a similar problem and a similar difference between them and now. However, we should focus on what we can do to improve the well - being of children at school. What can we do to take immediate action regarding feelings of distress and danger? There is nothing new about boys being so much more risky behavior than girls. It's always been that way. This, of course, increases the likelihood of suicide, crime, and other factors, and we need to look to ways in which we can intervene more quickly. We also need to wonder, because I feel that the underlying tone of this is that men are somehow left behind in the issue of equality, that perhaps we should face it in the equal talk, which is the changed image of masculinity. How should we deal with the changed image of man? Men are no longer the strong man, the breadwinner at home, the big boy who takes a little work in hand laws on weekends, etc., this is a completely different world. Perhaps we should make much more an effort to teach young men about the changed image of masculinity and what adjustments are required and related to us in today's equal talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u34	A respectable president. I thank my platoon brother and partner Karl Hjaltason Hojaltason for this need. Why are our boys so miserable? Can any study or figures on the paper tell us about this? I don't know. I'm just looking at the facts in society today. I watch a lot of our children suffer from a shortage. I watch our children escape because they have not fasted. I watch insecurity as they fail to take root. I see men and women, boys and girls, and I know that mother that they're just not the same at all. It varies from person to person how they feel and how they can cope with life on a different basis. But it is totally unmistakably clear that we need to nurture the basic needs of society, the basic needs of our children, to provide them with safety in schools; to have early intervention if we feel unwell. We need to meet them on their basis, where they are and listen to them. It's where I feel that this community of ours has really lost itself. We have become so preoccupied with ourselves and the pursuit of life that we simply forget the future in our children. I feel that there is reason to put your arms around them, where they are now, to ensure a secure future, to provide them with food, clothing, and, above all, a safe haven. How in the world would we feel if we were always on the move, not knowing if we were coming or going? That's exactly the way it is. Not everyone can cope with such challenges. And we can certainly see this on this day of harassment, the annual day of harassment, and the sexual abuse of 193 United Nations.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u35	A respectable president. The subject is urgent. Twenty years ago, a synopsis proposal was made to make a special examination of the school - education status of boys. They had what they had. Councilmen here were concerned about what was coming. The reasons they were tore up included. violent computer games and the lack of role models for boys in the school system, e.g. were mentioned as the long hours of a sailor's work. So this is nothing new under the sun. Likewise, it's not in Iceland. Many books have been written abroad about boys'problems and their appearances. I personally participated in a discussion here four years ago about Iceland's position in the international PISA survey, where I spoke in part. about reading blind boys over a computer screen, but for some reason dyslexia is much more common among boys than girls. Reading together is essential and vital, but at a modern pace, young children are not expected to have to extend their hours with excessive homework. Most of the discussions about homework are likely presented for dinner when everyone is tired, and they contribute to unnecessary anxiety. According to a report by the Norwegian Ministers, which appeared earlier this year, the difference is that 50% of the decline from high school between genders. Perhaps a high professional level in Iceland has something to say. Young boys who go to school for employment find it easy to do so. This report points out that it is important to investigate the implications of this gender - related differences and geographic differences. What makes the sons of farmers and sailors in the scattered regions of the country to be twice as likely to fall out of high school as their sisters? Of course, it is unacceptable for so many children and young people to feel so bad and fight anxiety and depression. We hear too often that prolonged harassment has led young people to take their own lives. But what can be done? There were many factors that were considered by the minister. Now it's even. Cooperation between the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Health to increase the availability of psychiatrists in high school and the establishment of mental health care. Of course, that's important. But I also think it's important that all schools offer student and professional advice. Health Ministers have also set up funding to follow a new suicide prevention programme in Iceland in accordance with mental health policies. It is, in fact, there. used in mental activity and prevention of school, mental health quality, and risk minimisation measures among high-risk groups. [[The president calls.]] All of this matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u36	President. Most of our kids of all sex are incredibly classy and good, much better and better, and better than my generation did at the same age. Yet, something is wrong because they do not seem to be feeling well enough, and statistics show that they always feel worse or worse. We need to examine it further. I have a feeling that they're pressured into roles that aren't practical. We can see this by means of glossy pictures that appear in many places. Social media are often mentioned, but there is also some artificial world system in which people are unfeasible. I think it's a lot more than that. I'd like, with President's permission, to read one sentence that fell into this hall at the turn of the century: The young men who are in the stadium or at the gym are vaccinated against addictive and drug abuse. That's what they said in this room. This is one of the artificial solutions we're always trying to find. It's not like that. It is totally unmistakably clear that children who are active and healthy relationships are far better off than children who are not involved, but sports is not vaccinated for children who get bored or feel bad. I have often wondered, " Is my field of achievement really beneficial? ' I bet you and I sitting in this room, we all know little boys who are going to be professional football players at some point. In their most sensitive age, their teenage years, they realize that it will never occur, and if their sense of identity is very limited to the only role they are going to be good in and it may fail, there is nothing left.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u37	V.E.G. President. I'm not going to argue about the fact that young boys have a hard time. I think it's perfectly clear, and then nothing new either. But I think if we're going to improve the position of young boys, we have to start by acknowledging that boys and girls are different from natural people, with very few exceptions. But the community has already decided, in the name of some right thinking today, that there is no difference. That's what I think the big problem is, everybody's put in the same box. That's not necessarily suitable for young boys. I'm no expert on these matters, but I've worked very hard with young boys who've had mistakes, and my feelings are that we've stopped taking responsibility for the wrong behavior a little bit. Not today. They never get to be responsible for what they do wrong. When it comes to discipline, there are releases. As a result, during adolescence, children have a diminished sense of identity, uncertainty. What will this lead to? This results in anxiety. This leads to failure to get feet, not getting ahold of life. Of course, it's not just with boys. A girl has a serious problem, and she faces a lot of anxiety and insecurity. Life will inevitably be difficult. I think we're supposed to talk more about causes than the consequences, and I think we have to admit that we can't just refer to children's rights and nobody has to take responsibility.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u38	Madam President. We're gonna talk about something important here, and I want to thank the advert for that, okay? paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason, as well as the highest. Prime Minister for being here. It's a little hard to find one of our conventions when we discuss the day's issues with boys in trouble, but I choose here the point of speaking about reading boys. It can be hard to adjust to the fact that boys do not perform as well as girls. I think it's important to keep it up that it's not the boys themselves who don't do what they do, but it's the school system itself that doesn't suit boys as well as girls. It should be noted that there is not one formula, there is not one formula that suits all boys or just one that suits all girls. To me, it's always best to meet the individual. This is how the school system is supposed to be, so the teacher's working environment must be. Teachers strive to activate the interests of all their students, often a key to further study. Schools are good - based, and there is not just one standard or one way that gives the right answer. True, reading and reading are important; I'm not going to belittle it, but the important thing is to recognize that the standard used in this relationship and that most often people's ears are part of the school work. He doesn't say anything about the quality of the work. He tells us nothing about school's role in development and education. In reality, he does not tell us anything that is reliable about so many other things.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u39	A respectable president. I thank the advocate of the conversation that I believe is very needed. It allows us to review some of the factors being done that have been done regarding the well - being of young people in this country. In fact, according to studies and analyses conducted among high school students between 10 and 20 years of age, the number of people experiencing anxiety and depression has increased substantially over the last five to ten years, although in general, students are well in the school system. Fear and depression, however, have grown among girls and have developed similar trends in other countries. Increased discussions have taken place among high school youths who are well - versed. Has it caused young people to be more open and talk more about these matters than before. For example, in 2017 a fall meeting of the National Council of America concluded with permission of a president: ▪ Southland Youth Council [...] encourages the development of public presentation for children and young people, including psychologists, of the subject and mental - health education. The committee suggests that this will be presented to younger children at once and will respond as soon as possible. Since anxiety and depression often begin at a high school, it is very important to interrupt them by screening and planning. Public health policies from 2016 also highlight children and young people up to 18 years of age and suggest that all rural areas become healthy communities, including all schools and workplaces. A mental health care programme 2016◯2020 is also suggested to screen for anxiety, depression, and trauma among high school children and provide appropriate support or treatment if considered at risk.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u40	A respectable president. I'm going to start by saying under what was said here about taking a comparison in time and bed. We can't just turn down statistics and worry, we need to understand what statistics mean. That's what these statistics are, like all statistics. I'd also like to agree that there's nothing new, and should not surprise anyone, that boys in general act more risky than girls. It's pretty obvious no matter where you look at society. Exactly why I don't know - I have my theory - but it's like that. Similarly, I would especially like to agree with the words that occurred earlier that we need to consider the changed image of masculinity. It's no longer the big, strong guy who can be the father figure. It can't be like that anymore if we're going to live in a better community and I suggest we do it. I've got to answer that question for a second. paritaprevir Hermes the Brynjar of Níelsson went out this way. I think it reflects a discussion that deals with certain fundamental factors, which are equality and feminism, as I understand it anyway. Hv. A senator mentioned a certain rightness, as he called it, that there was no difference between the sexes. I'm glad to tell you what's going on. A senator is welcome in feminism, at least to the level of feminism I believe. There is no blasphemy to say in feminism. But, hey. A senator mentioned what's really interesting to me, saying that everyone is in the same box. I see where it came from. A senator is coming, I understand the attitude. It wouldn't be so good if it were. But I don't see it that way. To me, it's about putting each of us in a box that each of us wants to be in, if put on people in a box over their heads. The key point is that the environment in which we live is to be suitable for all people, regardless of gender. That's why I find it interesting if a sex court is studying. It is not automatic that men are in a smaller part of study if the explanation is that more women are studying. Yet, an intriguing question may be, What does it involve in our environment, which appeals in different ways to different people? [[The president calls.]] That's an important question. It draws us closer one day to a society where we're all equal, regardless of gender or anything else.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u41	Madam President. It's an interesting discussion. I think human beings must be what we're going to do. Then there is manlyness, and then there is something that might be a woman's name, which is to have feminine qualities. I think our definitionism is that we want everyone in our box to be wrong. I don't think it's gonna be good. I think we should rather view men, women, and people of every kind as pearls. Some are extremely busy at one end of that pearl band and others on the other, so talking about boys or girls as their separate parts, completely separate, is wrong, and that does not result in success. I think that in school systems and in every part of the world, we should look primarily to the variety. We're here to honor the diversity. We are not to raise children and young people to some special thing or that they should meet certain requirements and somehow become men or women in their final appearance. I don't think that's gonna do any good. Then I think that there's also something to think about with girls, or the ones on the top of the right about being on the combination, a girl, what they're taught in schools about girls' virtues in school. [[The president calls.]] Isn't it sitting still? Isn't that being quiet? Isn't that being noticed and not having trouble? [[The president calls.]] Is that not a problem too?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u42	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you to all of them. Councilmen who spoke here and the highest. Minister for her answers. I must say, I am very pleased with the attitudes and viewpoints expressed in the case of many members of the Parliament, and many did things that were even surprising, and I need to digest. But if I had to go through a conversation about the male gender, I'd like to say that I was surprised to learn how few people are getting into what I mentioned about a negative conversation about the male gender, which would have any effect. Another thing I'm going to mention is that it was said it wasn't new, that there's nothing new under the sun, it's always been like this. Guys, this is what they are. They're gonna get in trouble. It's a natural law. I refuse to agree. It is not physical laws that nine out of every ten suicide victims are boys, 90%. The sexual ratio shown in these numbers is not physical laws. However, I do know that it may not be new to this level, but it's not a natural law of nature. We have to be able to work against this. That's what I'm calling out for. Work to improve this, even if this may not be new in the community. And then there were some discussions about school, which, of course, are very important. Yesterday I participated in discussions about the establishment of a community college, that is, e.g. one thing to mention is the possibility of coming in here and many other things. But thank you for the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u43	Mr. President. I want to agree with what. The adverb here spoke last and thank you for a fine discussion. What I take out of it is, first of all, when we cross policy in the affairs of young people, no matter what sex they are, we need to base on facts. It is very important that data and research are collected into one place, for as I crossed my previous lines, there is much evidence to suggest that there are different problems between boys and girls. It is important that we respond in different ways too. This is one of the things we need to consider. Second, I'd like to say that it is natural that we look at the whole world, whether in the health system, I specifically mentioned mental health, or in the school system, and that it really matters what is being done to improve reading and other things, as well as what the parents do. I'd like to mention that there are many indications that girls can gain more control in the language than boys do. It may be that there are genetic factors, or it may be that parents speak more to girls than to boys. Of course, this is important when we consider that we cannot just view the system as such, we also need to consider what we are doing as families and people. Of course, whether we are talking about spiritual distress, alcohol and drug abuse, or what we have is the society of young people and parents. Of course, there is concern when we see, for example. Reports that I have made this hall talk about this trend in Germany in summer that more children and young people have drowned than ever because their parents were busy on the phone. We must look forward to this, too. I want to finally say that what I take out of this discussion is that we all live in sexting systems. Men are spoken of differently than women. This may appear in different ways to men and women. [[The president calls.]] Women are often spoken of as puppets that never make personal decisions. [[The president calls.]] There are other requirements for men and a negative way of speaking to women. [[The president calls.]] But we all lose on this sex system. We all lose that, both men and women.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u44	A respectable president. This is where I recommend a bill to correct a law on income taxes and a law on supporting innovation companies. The bill suggests changes in tax laws in terms of tax recovery from stock markets and tax recovery from innovations. First, regarding the stock market, there are suggestions for changing the terms of income taxation in terms of tax exchange from income taxand tax subsidies to encourage further use of the individual in this tax requisition and extend the duration of it. It is established that the specified regulations in the income tax laws have a temporary valid law, i.e. The length of the law is temporary and will expire at the end of this year if an extension decision is not made. This suggests an extended period of about three years, but unchanged individuals can use only the embezzlement due to investments in the current year. The last incarceration is at the pressures of public pay next year. At the same time, the number of conditions that individuals and communities must meet will be reduced and simplified. Here we should remember that when we arrived at the income tax laws in our time, we did so with a measure of caution. However, there was a relatively long turn in which a decision was made whether anything was being made on state straddles on the inner market of the EEA and where the limit was low in that topic. Also, a little bit blind to the ocean with the extent to which or to what extent the options would be changed here at that time. With evidence of uncertainty, it was difficult to evaluate the tax appeal involved. The result was rather careful approach. In the first place, caution is expressed in the terms laid down for the injury and the temporary legalization of the law. Now the season of trial has passed. This is where we stand, and this bill insists that we extend and relax only on these conditions. It is assumed that an individual and company he intends to invest in due to partial financial growth will no longer have to meet the conditions related to the association and the conditions for the union itself and its activities after a partial financial growth in the community has taken place. The need for an individual and relevant organisation to continue to meet the requirements for a certain period of the financial growth of the society is expected to reduce the incentive of individuals to take advantage of the deduction. It is also suggested to reduce the terms of the law to an individual who intends to take advantage of the deduction by completing the requirement that he not be an employee of a group with which he intends to invest in its financial growth. This proposal should have a positive effect on the purchase of employees in a partner they work for and, at the same time, encourage better performance and more production in the relevant enterprise. This change also facilitates the implementation and control of the tax authorities through the system. It may be said that in view of the experience this is suggested, the measures taken were not entirely new to the extent that men wanted to see. Here I have considered the main thing that we believe will be useful to the decision to have the initial activity. Then, of the other key elements of this bill: Here is a proposal to increase the current reference levels of tax from research and development costs of innovation companies found in the law on support of innovation companies. On one hand, the suggestion includes maximising the rate of research and development for general reference withdrawals to increase from 300 million. K. into 600 million. K., if the relevant enterprise is owner of research and development projects. However, it is suggested to maximise study and development costs for the reference of withdrawals to an increase of 450 billion. K. into 900 million. K. when research and development is purchased by an unplugged company, university or institution. It is the policy of the government to contribute significantly to the research and technological development of an enterprise in Iceland, but it is part of the policy of decommissioning roofs for reimbursement and development during the season. Increase of the reference height is an essential step toward that goal. The current tax attraction system has contributed to the lucrative research and development of companies in recent years. In context, 142 companies applied and received reimbursement for 360 projects in 2017. It is clear, therefore, that in recent years there has been significant growth in research and development of a large number of companies. Investment in innovation, research, and development is the basis for growing wealth, economic growth, and general progress in the modern world, and it is therefore important that governments continue to maintain good - looking support in this area. Last night, when the trade policy of the Industrial Association was introduced in Hörpe, there were vivid examples that such coincidences, the reimbursements of this bill, and in force for the past few years, have produced increased levels in industrial companies, have secured jobs, have enabled companies to recruit newly graduated students, such as the one mentioned. in the case of the president of Knox Medical, where the company has considered this discount specifically to let newly graduated persons in their research projects. This has again led to cooperation with other companies or university institutions in other countries. Other companies, such as Elkem, took an example in yesterday's meeting of a number of jobs, high - paying jobs for people with doctors doing research on Elkem, Iceland, are in direct contact with the remunerations being covered here. What is more, in the future, there are many of these industrial companies in Iceland in international cooperation that are constantly being considered to be the most favorable labour conditions, the most favourable public management conditions, to give the next research projects the start. It was fun to experience it both from such powerful large companies as Elkem but also from small software companies who may have few employees, that this principle is simply the lifeblood of your companies, according to what you got directly at the meeting yesterday. Other companies, such as Alvotech, are doing a lot of research in Iceland, a developing job that has many years of research and development before the production is due to registration and then a marketing level. Thus, years after research and development have run out, it is clear that we need to be careful in our legal environment, our tax environment, to show such activity understanding and to create such companies in general environments, including a tax-based view that compete with other countries. In connection with competition with other countries, it is simply a fact that all countries look to how they can attract investments in future values. The order we discuss here is very similar to the rule of other nations in this regard. Some have gone so far as to cut off roofs, but there are always some special rules to consider. We have written it in the government covenant, and it has been shown in my case that we are going to be able to do so, but we need to take one step carefully. It will be, for example. to evaluate it before the roof is finally removed, as we have planned in a government contract, whether we were there to reach a relatively small number of people who would drive them into the roof. With the change, we would thus be increasing our refunds to the big parties while the roof was decommissioned. We would actually need to take a discussion about it and ask ourselves, " Could I be doing more good by increasing the pay rate to the masses instead of having a lower payment rate and a higher roof? ' It is the combination of these rules that we need to consider and apply in each step. It must be said, just as it is, that we are learning how the changes will affect us. For example, in 2018, reimbursement in the current year is considerably higher than we anticipated the budget by the end of the last year. I guess we're paying up rights about One billion more revenues for innovation companies, researchers and evolution, than we anticipated. It is also in the light that we need to be careful about planning and changing the rules for the future. Of the enterprises, software companies, industrial companies, and all of those looking at these rules - but as I noted earlier, 142 companies were reimbursed - it is often suggested that it is a clear benefit to both parties by raising the pay ratio or raising the roof because of being involved in other economic activities. There is a valid view, although it may not be possible to determine that in all cases this applies to any change. I believe, however, that we can claim to the full that we have been on the right track. It is automatic and natural to continue to support the construction of these activities in this country by adding support to the roof. These changes are deemed to have a slight negative effect on the survival of a less recent set of state funds. More recent policy measures on tax recovery from stock markets are considered to be costing state funds at a rate of some 40 to 50 million in 2020, due to the income of 2019 C.E. That's a plan. A short-term effect of double-time tax balances due to research and development costs, if dead bodies occur, will be higher if this is determined by previous experience, as I've traced. Based on the assumption that the increase will be 20% from the 2019 programme, support for the system would be in the form of reimbursement or decrease of income taxes up to 4 billion. So here it is being suggested that there would be a 20% increase in the next year from the current year's schedule. It's a significant increase, 4 billion reimbursement for research and development projects is a significant support for these activities. It should be noted that this support is recorded as a financial expenses. In the long term, the overall impact of the supportive measures described here should be positive, the end of the change to promote growth, increase in cost of buying, variety of employment, and increase in prosperity in general. We believe that these remunerations are well spent in increasing activity and for the beneficial effects that come with it, and that it will come back not only to government funds but to varied employment and further prosperity, as presented here. A respectable president. I've given some basic reasons to make the changes that come with this bill and suggest that it be referred to. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u45	Mr. President. I'd like to hear a previous answer say, be glad that the amount should be raised because of the research and development costs of innovation companies. I want to say the highest words. Minister when he speaks of the importance of these reinforcements. I think he likes it to have a positive effect. I know a lot of examples and stories from companies who have simply said that these strengths or discounts were crucial to the development of the company. But I'd like to ask the highest. A minister would have a formal assessment of the importance of this aspect of the subject of the growth of wands and the establishment of good roots. And also, if a definition of innovation is established, something will be established by those who are working on these issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u46	A respectable president. No, we haven't made a special assessment of what this has cost. On the other hand, we feel tremendous support from the interest groups we have in these laws, and we have no doubt that we are on the right path to develop order. Besides, as I mentioned earlier, this is a reimbursement system in the spirit of what others do, we watch policies and currents in that material from other countries. In part, it's about securing a competitive business environment. The definition of the innovation was also asked. It has been in Ranni's hands to follow that surveillance. Most recently, the scope of that activity has been far beyond our schedule, and we need to strengthen it. I don't think it in itself was in humans to make the right definition, but the magnitude is far beyond what we anticipated. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u47	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. Now I'd like to ask, because of the stock markets and their change of criteria for them, that there are no longer any limits to corporate employees buying stock. I'd like to ask the highest. The minister of what evidence was there to make it a requirement that the current law be excluded and if there is a possibility that this situation might be abused by the employee's superiors. Was it part of the evidence that these conditions were in the current law?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u48	A respectable president. Of course, it is always an assessment of how the rules of this nature can affect the work environment of the employees. In general, it has to be concluded that this is not possible to allow humans to be particularly exposed to pressure to invest in their own companies, but it cannot be excluded that it can happen. The rules, such as they were originally conceived, may have been designed to meet the needs of investors, those who were involved in investing in innovation and growth companies. Then I'm referring specifically to sceptres and growth plants. In this context, it was not unusual that the rules do not apply to employees who in general are not professionals in making such decisions. This rule has taken some criticism from the sector. We fail here. I agree with what. A senator said that it would be a very undesirable effect if the result was the result.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u49	Mr. President. Now, at a meeting of the Industrial Association before the last election, most groups of directors, in effect, praised the reimbursement. True, I did not want to go that far at that meeting with the very argument that was at its height. A minister will now follow, so this may be a reminder that the campaign program needs to be well planned. But I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Why should this be extended only to three years? Because it is very important for everyone in all such innovations and investments. Is it not time for us to make it permanent?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u50	A respectable president. I think we're right about moving on with them compromises and coincidences the way we're doing it. I think we've taken the right step so far. We have had a very positive response from secular work to the wills that have been in effect. There will be an opinion about the roofs and the remuneration rate and the right interaction between them, as I traced earlier. There are some who say that there is obviously no roof for profit and will give Iceland the advantage over other countries. But I think that the interaction between competitive factors is a little more complicated than that. I refer to the fact that we've been making other changes that have also helped here, e.g. to provide a discount of income tax for experts who move to the country along with reimbursement of research and development. It works very well together, and we have examples of it. [[The president calls.]] So this time with a validation is a matter of opinion, whether we have not provided enough groundwork to keep the system permanent. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u51	Mr. President. Yes, I can say, of course, that this is always a test operation. But by doing this permanently now, they would produce a measure of condemnation that would be good. He may, of course, be removed later, but there would be a failure of their destiny. But from the highest. However, a minister mentions the tax returns to foreign experts to question specifically whether the Ministry had examined other means of support rather than reimbursement. I refer to neither of the two countries at the world's top in innovation support by various analyses, i.e. Sweden and Switzerland have the kind of remuneration that we will discuss here, both with a wide variety of fleas of various kinds of support to both research and innovation companies as well as to sceptical companies.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u52	A respectable president. I think we also need a variety of evasive resources, and it is extending over the whole area. The level of taxes is relevant. The insurance bill, pay-related fees, it's important. In this context, the support of the Research Fund, the Technical Development Fund, is important. We've been building this fund. They have proved their worth and are evidence that there are more resources than reimbursement of research and evolution. I mentioned here a discount due to income tax for experts who are moving for the first time in the country. We've also been making changes in changing bonds, on their taxable treatments, also on prenup agreements. We changed their taxation, we changed the time of taxation. There's more to be counted on. A new bill on the National Fund, now open to the problem, suggests that we can spend in a five - year period up to a further 10 billion in some form of resources, diversity, according to a later decision to do so even better. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u53	Mr. President. I want to start by saying I think this bill is good. So be glad it's out there. I just wanted to ask the highest. Secretary of finance up to a maximum, i.e. The roof on the reimbursement, because it said that there are certain problems with EU rules that apply in the area, that it would have to start looking at each individual company if this was not a problem. Then I just want to know, is it enough to have any amount of money left on it to escape this EU rule? [[The president calls.]] Or is there an upper limit of what you can put this roof high in order to fit into the terms of the rules of Europe? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u54	A respectable president. I dare not tell myself how to interpret the government rules in this subject, but I'm willing to allow myself to doubt that taking off the roof alone would tell the rules, it would follow the procedure. I guess you're right. A senator would need to be careful that, in some cases, we would be opening up to communities that did not agree with the main thoughts behind such support. I'm not an expert on the government rules about that. But the other thing I do know is that there are some European countries that do not have a roof. There are other rules that may be playing together with no roof that is important in this assessment. I'm sure some overall assessment of how the system works in this material needs to be conducted. Then there are companies competing in a number of other companies, such as the Irish, who have dropped the income tax on some of the companies in research and development and high competition. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u55	Mr. President. Same hurt. The box that follows the bill shows that between 2016 and 2017, ten and eleven companies ran up into the roof. Then I'd like to ask if it's the highest. A minister has it in a quick room compared to the proposed question, for example. The 10 companies, 11 companies would have escaped under the rules. Do humans have any plans on how much this is going to change? Will one, two companies bump into this roof or will we continue to see ten to eleven? Of course, I know precise numbers are very difficult on this. Depending on what companies are up to at one time and who are applying for etc. Was it examined?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u56	A respectable president. It is assumed that a small number of companies run into the roof, but it is evident that some of the enterprises that have a work in this country are now having a lot of activity that it is quite obvious that a higher roof will not ensure that their remuneration requests are received. I can mention in this regard a company like CCP and Marel, who have simply so much activity that it's pretty clear that they'll run into this roof. Nevertheless, it is certain that the roof will be important to their function. Maybe that's exactly what I think we need to ask ourselves, about the further changes in the system, whether or not we should wonder how many companies are running into the roof, or whether the remuneration rate might come up in a revision, which would guarantee more and smaller companies more reimburse.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u57	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the history of this fine case. I'd like to do last year's answer to the highest. A minister, after considering having covered the total cost of the company's research and development rather than having it absalized number and even the proportion, if any, has been considered. It's like the highest. A minister came into question in an antiquated situation just now that some of these enterprises have become quite large, and in some studies, research on even one unique product may be extremely expensive, for example in the health sector, in drugs and the like, where it is easy to get up under the roof even with one product. For those companies, it may be important that ratios are more considered than absalized number.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u58	A respectable president. I don't really have any final answer. All I'm asking is that the payment rate could change by 5 or 10%, or something like that, and I would like to listen to the sector for further changes. It is also possible that at a certain level of well - being, the reimbursement rate is some percentage which, in turn, lowers as the reimburses rise. Another factor that has not been mentioned in this discussion up to this point is the requirement for significant reimbursement of companies in the country, thus paying their main taxes to the State. It's one thing that I think it's only natural to come to the conclusion, if people continue to add heretics, that they don't only have specialized development agencies in Iceland to ensure the most reimbursement, but then they're due on taxes and other fees for any other whole fictitation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u59	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. In a later answer, I would like to introduce the minister to the question of whether it might be wise to focus the discount on a few defined sectors or to vary according to sectors. Now there's this community discussion, at least In some respects, that Icelanders cannot expect to be great in all things, i.e. On the other hand, we should focus on all aspects of innovation and development, rather than on the ones that are predictable or likely to become very strong. I wondered, " Is the discussion within the Ministry that the emphasis should be on a specific sector or that it should vary according to sectors? '
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u60	A respectable president. In this environment, I think we need to be careful to pretend to predict where we can succeed. I'll let myself, for example. to point out that there are few people who believed in the development of software in Iceland and video games. Can I give you an example? I mean, we have not been so full of optimism here at the council or in the community that video gamemaking is an expert knowledge that Iceland had, yet it has been successful to build an international strong business in that area. As a result, I think it would be good to let people just have their own ideas and give them a general condition to let them go. However, when it comes to the government's investment or the technology needed by the State, we may be able to direct the money in a certain direction and control it more. Consider the health sector. We are in desperate need of medical techniques that would be wise for the government to invest in and get the benefits back in the system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u61	Mr. President. We're discussing something very important here, i.e. changing the law on supporting innovation companies, i.e. tax extracts of stock markets from research and development. In the beginning, I want to say that this is a very important step. As shown in the case of the highest, we are following along on this journey. Minister. We may be a young nation, or a new nation in this regard, but as shown in the cases of various speakers, we have made significant progress in certain areas. I have no doubt that the voices we hear from the community that these support and sponsors were crucial, correct. In the past, it is said to extend the stock market discount, or support the stock market in companies and individuals or employees of the enterprises. I think, at the same time, what was said in a warning rush. Oddný ItHarðardóttir also important that we monitor the potential for any kind of pressure or such thing within our companies for staff to contribute to the enterprise, that if workers in a innovation company, or workers working in development and research in a innovation company, we should decide that investing in the company may increase the external belief in the enterprise, that those who work there should put their own money into the companies. Of course, it needs some kind of supervision, and I trust the tax authorities well to do so. In that sense, I agree with it as a matter of course. Harðardóttir Oddný's up to you to be aware that employees aren't using any kind of pressure. But on the basis of tax deduction, there is an increase in research and development, there is also a very important route. I only came on to it earlier that this can make a big difference to a company. We must also remember, especially in large and expensive studies, that the roof may be too low. And from that point on, my speculations about whether it should even be proportional in some cases. The source is also important in this context, i.e. building the source, in the context we are now, i.e. the dollar is getting sick, and the dollars a company may put in it may be worth less than that. It can therefore be assumed that it is important to raise the source, as well as to increase the size and size of the enterprises. It can be assumed that innovation and interest in innovation are increased by this change and that long - term effects on government funds will be rather positive than negative. V.E.G. A minister has earlier reminded me from the platform that I am not a special spokesman for the reduction of taxes, and I am not a member of a political organization that specifically speaks of it, at least not such a princely manielt, but there it can really be, especially if the benefits for the State and for society may be this. But let us also see that the increase alone is on the roof from 300 to 600 million. K. can be translated from anywhere in the range of 30◯40 jobs, i.e. well-paid jobs for companies that reach the top of the roof. That's a huge deal in Icelandic society. For example, for example, for example, consider a company that may have begun working outside the country, such as to form Kercis's company, which may be divided into societies where companies grow and thrive entirely immensely, and is involved even more important than, e.g. in larger settlements or larger communities, such as south of the country. It can also be said that by increasing the tax subsidies, business risks are reduced to some extent by moving into expensive research and development, and thus to some extent meet the concerns that some have had regarding the fact that corporate taxation is becoming too high or excessive. It may be the course of wisdom to deal with such concerns, and in the same way, to face the concerns that have resulted from the increase in capital gains. If the state supports good - looking with the companies and their owners at an earlier stage, it may be less necessary to worry that those who make money in a business or business should take special pleasure in the amount of money they may eventually have, especially if they have a previous level of fairness, such concerns as this. I'm not gonna have any more of my words, Mr. President. I can't wait to deal with the bill in what? The Economic and Business Committee and will be listening specifically for the comment at the highest level. Ministers and other members of Parliament have entered here earlier today.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u62	A respectable president. We're here to discuss a bill to legalize two laws. Both of these measures have the primary objective of supporting the innovation and innovation of the environment in this country. I'd like to start by saying that I agree completely with that, and so much so with it. Despite some means in which we can argue that we are getting involved with the tax system, and in general, I see a spokesman for keeping it simple and having low taxes and the simplicity of weapons, however, it is accepted the fact that the state is simply competing for companies who practice innovation, research, and evolution. The market competition has made it really possible that there are certain tax requirements for such an enterprise, since its importance for employment and employment policies in every country is far different. Simply put, it is very important for us to have more variety and support for our employment and innovation. The practicality of research and development and intelligence is simply a prerequisite for a wide range of employment. By such action, we strengthen our country's competitiveness. Thank you very much. Minister for his speech. He handled the bill very well. One is tax deduction from stock markets and, on the other, tax relief from research and development costs. Otherwise, we are actually extending the terms of tax recovery when it comes to investing in innovations and sceptres, and this is in accordance with government policies to increase access to both innovation companies and smaller growing companies. That's where tax appeals are thought to be a big difference. So we are extending the law with our suggestions for another three years. I agree with that, and in the context, I would like to talk only about the environment in which these companies work. Many years ago, when the banks were growing up, I worked with innovations. Actually, all of the stock market investments entered those companies that some might want to classify as innovation companies at the time. At that time, however, these large banks sucked both the funds and the qualified personnel, and the newer companies, with little to eat. Perhaps you could say: " Congratulations for that business, the banking system collapsed, but no good for anyone else. ' But I hope we learned some of these things. We now see that Iceland's stock market is very ill, and there is a great need for the public to propose their savings and take risks with innovation companies and smaller companies. I especially remember that we are in trouble. A financial and business committee visited the Sale Hall where we discussed the problem and what we could do in it. This, of course, is one of the measures that they especially recommend at the Wall Street Hall. In fact, now the public seems to be betting on concrete and buying real estate when it comes to laying down their savings. But to say, when I came here, it was only discussed earlier if this should be just an open source, that we always have a tax charge when people invest in stocks in these companies. We're talking about three more years. I think it's wise to have this as a preliminary principle. Never know, unless the emphasis needs to be somehow different later. But when it comes to reimbursement for the cost of research and development, it is the result of raising the roof. It's been checked. Of course, it was the policy of this government and it is still written in the government covenant to remove the roof, but it is at a critical stage in which I believe it is important to move better before these stages are even larger. But I'm all for raising the roof despite, as shown in a good table in the report, not many of these enterprises are limited to this roof. A total of 144 companies accepted such reimbursements last year, and 11 of them were limited to the maximum. So it's clear that a large percentage of companies take advantage of these coincidences without the roof being disturbed so far. But I still think it's really important, because this adds to our competitiveness to get to the country a new company that would take advantage of this. V.E.G. A minister did a fine job on what appeared at a conference at the Industrial Association yesterday, which was very interesting. It is not often that we politicians are backed up and, in fact, were given special attention to the operations, but it was done yesterday exactly in this regard, where the Society of Industrials expressed great satisfaction in raising this roof. There, corporate executives and executives reviewed the importance of this, both for their companies, but also for their entire job life here on the country. Despite the evaluation of the impact of this bill that it may cost a government fund for a short period of time, I think there are many other factors, as follows, that it will result in other actions. The actions associated with the bill cannot be taken out of the context of what we are doing in general on innovation. V.E.G. The Minister of Industrial and Neo-creation has made up a new strategy that will be introduced to us in May next year, where certain factors are considered. Special attention should be paid to the economic activities of food and health technology and to guide education. Special attention should be given to the organization of the support environment to be provided in this country. And especially watch environmental solutions. As a matter of fact, I believe that we should be able to lead a worldwide life. Looking especially at public business. It has been noted that there is a need for special attention to innovation in public affairs, but it is equally important to look to the business, as well as to the health and welfare, which is a class of great success in innovation companies. However, it has also been suggested that research and development in this sector are often encouraged to further increase the rate of government spending or the expense of these groups. We may also need to consider where it can save costs. I want to use this opportunity to sharpen us and the Ministers and government agencies to look at the innovation companies working here in the country and have been developing solutions both designed to improve health and health welfare services as well as to reduce costs, and perhaps, at the same time, to increase access to all parties. Then, especially, I am thinking about distant health care and other things like that. We have to form a pioneers who won the Northern Council Prize recently, a very interesting solution to improve access except for speech or psychological services, so there are many opportunities in these materials. In contrast with other countries, the Icelandic innovation environment receives excellent judgments. We are believed to be in what is called, by the permission of the President, the order of the European Union to assess the innovation environment of these countries, or strong innovations, or pioneers. In fact, we have actually been standing in place since 2010, while countries that we would like to compare with us have been making significant improvements. If so, I would especially like to mention Norway in that regard. Witchcraft has jumped a little bit to the ground in recent years. That's why I think it's important that we keep on our toes about where we can improve. But what is thought to be our strengths is that we have a novel environment and our research environment and should attract others. That's an option. But our weaknesses are patents and numbers of them. There's nothing new. It's been with us ever since we were measuring these things. I think in our innovation policy and all the measures we're going to take to this, we should look particularly at these weaknesses. How can we fix it? I have to make a point here, both in inquiry and in speeches, that it is amazing that in the areas we are very strong in international comparison, I specifically mention the earth's heat, there are no more patents belonging to the Icelandic people. This calls for improvement. I'm sitting right there. The Economic and Business Committee, and they're looking forward to this bill for coverage. There is actually one factor I'd like to mention here. I don't know if a minister would like to react to this, but I was just wondering about the double when it comes to reimbursement. On one hand, it may be the internal cost of the companies, that they employ or practice some kind of research and development that they can obtain reimburse, and the factor that helps to buy more help is the one that helps. You can work with colleges or other companies and researchers on innovation, where you can get a refund. The factor to buy a research and service factor is higher than the cost in the house. I wondered, " Who was the argument at the beginning when it was put on? ' I understand that it is desirable to encourage companies to seek out outside counselors. It may be determined that companies work across borders, in partnership with the university. But I also wondered, " Is there any way in which this can lead to some negative impulse? ' I mention it here because I went to Knox Medical for the last election, where Pétur Halldórsson, president of the company, mentioned this feature and thought it might and in some case would have made it necessary for them not to hire employees but to buy outside counselors. He wondered if this would be working against himself if it should not always be an incentive to recruit a company at such times. But in many cases, it is probably very small and normal for companies to be looked at for high levels of research and development. Maybe we'll think about it on the committee. Without a doubt, there are explanations for the initial setting. I see that the bill doesn't change anything about this. The roofs are just being raised. At any rate, I feel that there is a reason to bring this up, and I expect to get some answers when we go over this rather on the committee. I don't think I have it much further. I welcome the contributions of this bill, and I would like to encourage all of us to continue in that subject is subject to increasing innovation here. I think Iceland has quite a huge opportunity when it comes to attracting innovation companies and promoting research and development and technological translocation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u63	Mr. President. I want to start by celebrating this case. All the steps involved in increasing research support and innovation are of the good. However, this is an enormously important support and, in particular, in terms of reimbursement from innovation companies' costs of research and development and as shown in the table of this bill, business has been taking advantage of this potential in increasing numbers. The withdrawals due to research and development costs last year included less than 3 billion, and 144 companies took advantage of this possibility. What I always wondered, though, when these issues arise, and perhaps in particular, a particular view of innovation and evolution in the Ministry of finance, is that it seems that it is most often considered as an expense. Although we have been following in the right direction in this regard, from the beginning there has been considerable difficulty in removing the roof of reimbursement. I'll even see you later. ... ina paper with a bill that might be violated by such a delinquency in the European Union. In fact, this is now a decommissionment of the government's policy sheet last time I knew it, and most of the classes here at Congress were so decommissioned. In fact, I think even though several European countries have support like this without a roof. It would be interesting, then, at least to find a clearer answer to whether such would actually violate the European Commission Regulation referred to in the bill, or whether it is based on some misunderstanding. The last time I knew, countries like Britain and others have no roof on these refunds. If we begin with the first part of this matter, which is involved in the tax appeals of stock investments, the changes presented here are certainly for the good and for simplifying individuals something to take advantage of this possibility. On the other hand, if you read this excellent bill, 30 grams. law on income taxes from 2003, you have to admit that the article is written according to the obvious view that no one is going to get the wrong way. This is so complicated and such conditions are set for the use of the tax impulse that it could not have been the intention of the Lawgiver to have some real use of these rights, as it also results in the result that the cost of state funds in the past year due to this figure is 40 to50 billion. K. and the cost assessment of the changes we will discuss here is negligible. I think we need to consider how we encourage the general investment of persons in stocks, whether of innovation companies or companies, in general, as unauthorized ones, not in an excessive court of high risk. However, the fact is that participation in public, individual, in direct employment investment is very low in this country compared with in other countries. Part of it may be explained by saving our savings through a pension fund and, therefore, a collection fund that is unusually large, but this does not really mean that the individual or the public investment in part - money has increased very little by falling down the streets if we compare ourselves with other countries. Here I think it might go much further to give a tax rate to individual stock investments and simplify to a great deal of legal significance now. When it comes to supporting innovation, I say again and again that it is often as if we are simply afraid that the company will take advantage of the rights. In recent years, however, this has been improved. It may have been two or three years since that roof was last lifted from 150 million. K. into 300 million. Well, this is a 600-million double here. K. What it says in the bill's report is that there are really very few companies who enter this roof today at least of the companies who use this right to date. Last year, there were 11 of them that reached a peak. I was wondering in this context because one of our main problems when it comes to the synthesis of employment has been that we have a very powerful research and wand function. We are a great deal of new companies on the market, but we seem to be doing quite a lot worse setting them up than do e.g. When it comes to applying knowledge, our neighbors will not be as effective as they are in its creation. It leads to thinking that as important as this support is for the smallest companies, the benefits for the state's funds are probably the greatest in terms of innovation and development of larger enterprises. It is most likely that the companies who are already on the move will be able to make practical application of this knowledge, thereby increasing the number of jobs and the increase in tax pay for state funds. Therefore, I feel that it is entirely unwise to put a roof on the reimbursement, as is here, and quite likely that the companies who are already taking the research work out of the country because of this roof, who use the space they get or support from other countries for such activities, will continue. On the contrary, we're going to encourage that the companies here are making the most of their research and development work here. The soil here is very fruitful. The competitiveness of our innovation companies, our knowledge companies when it comes to these aspects of the operation, when it comes to the innovation itself, the research. But then it is harder to compete for your own production, production costs, and instability. That is why I believe that all the evidence must conclude that we will be completely delinquency with this roof and that it would ideal for us to go further on that subject. I hope that's what we're gonna get. I don't believe that at the expense of this, I should be able to do it well. In an inquiry as of any given moment. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson was in charge of the highest court. A last year's financial minister found that the cost relative to the existing arrangement was to be completely removed from the roof to about 300 billion. K. every year. This must mean that we are probably as well as if we've covered things with an increase in roofs. But there may be no reason to have a roof above our heads, but to allow companies, technical and innovation companies, here at home for continuing to grow and thrive with full support, as knowledge and development work are just as valuable to us whether it is employed in small companies or large and should not set any boundaries on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u64	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalise the law on income taxes and other laws. This bill suggests that the current public pay by the customs manager will be brought to the head of the tax from January 1, 2019. The EIC does not submit any changes to the EIC's arrangements for the collection of public pay provided by the county. As noted, the collection in the capital area up until now has been at the toll manager, but the politicians have cared for it in other districts throughout the country. In the government covenant, there are also those in the United States. with emphasis on improving government management and the development of public services by setting up an electronic service problem where people can in one place approach public services and take care of government activities. It also highlights efforts to be made in a simple regular work for the sake of employment and the public, focusing on effective and just management. To meet these priorities, more intensive electronic management and a wide range of self-impliment options for currency, including on the port of service, Iceland. A major change has been made in the Icelandic tax system as well as the function and role of the tax authorities. Trends in information technologies and artificial intelligence have greatly improved the quality of work and efficiency in the tax industry. This calls for better business and services, with harmonisation and management. There is considerable opportunity to improve services and to support management of the work of toll managers and government tax managers by integrating the Agency's activities more effectively so that the production and collection of public pay will become simpler, more efficient, and more efficient. The environment is diverse, including the international challenges of an electronic store that is becoming more and more frequent. The integration aims to improve the effectiveness of all services in a single place of public, staff, state and community interest. It is not expected that jobs will be submitted but that they will be transferred from the toll manager to the head of the tax. However, it is inevitable that the organization will develop over the course of time and that the organization will be organized so that good planning and efficient tax gain will be combined. To the future, the work needs to create a structure that contributes to economic, integration, and harmony. In this regard, it is necessary to consider that housing arrangements are being planned, but it is clear that this will not take place in the next few years. The implementation of the public taxpayer's fee to the head of the tax is aimed for increased efficiency and efficiency. How simple it is to have pressures and to collect public pay in one hand! It can thus be assumed that services to taxpayers and currency will become more effective and better, which will return to an even better collection and thus to government revenues. There is a great potential for harmonizing computer and information systems and improving the activities and effectiveness of the tax authorities. Thus, community economy and financial benefits may be expected to become greater, leading to a reduction in the total tax system cost without the loss of services and efficiency. The cost of staging is expected to be within the budget of the tax, property, and financial organisations. So, with this bill, we suggest that the person responsible for the application also take up the collection. By the way, a respectable president, I suggest that the bill be referred to. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. at the end of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u65	A respectable president. Here I recommend a bill that suggests some changes in financial law relating to information and reporting reviews and, on the other hand, the limitations of other management jobs and the executives in systematicly important financial companies. The terms of the bill are part of the so-called CRD IV directive for the establishment and activities of the loan companies and investment companies and their careful surveillance, and the CRR directive on the precautionary requirements for the services of loans and investment companies. This is a European principle, which includes: The implementation of the Basel III standard in Europe and the implementation of the bill was considered to see how the same directives have been introduced in the North countries. Before I tore up the subject of the bill, I'd like to review and remind you that over the past few years, the Ministry of Economics has been working on taking up this rule in Icelandic rights. This is a large structure not yet fully adopted in the EEA Convention, but the Icelandic government has decided to introduce Iceland because of the great interests involved. The induction in Iceland has taken place in several stages that have involved significant changes in financial laws and have led to significant differences in the law of law. For example, the quantity and quality of financial companies are now completely altered from what was before the collapse of the financial system, as well as a number of aspects of their business changes in promoting a more stable financial management with the interests of the public. If I come back to the bill that is being discussed here, the main changes that it would recommend are the following: First, a change to 92th is proposed. The law that deals with the information of an accountant. In particular, the regulations on the issues that the accountant should inform the UN about the business of a financial enterprise and particularly about the defects in their operations. In this way, an accountant should inform the UN about issues or decisions that involve violations of law. Factors that may interfere with the continuation of the company should also be reported as well as things that can lead to the refusal or advance of an accountant in the annual account of the company. In the current law, an accountant is expected to inform the management of a financial firm and the SEC of failures in business, while changing is aimed at explaining the responsibility of accountants in this respect. The responsibility of accountants is in accordance with the Council of Economic Affairs, but the accountant shall also report the management of a financial business to be responsible for a failure unless there is strong reason not to do so. For a more detailed explanation of these requirements, there must be a discussion. Of course, the mandatory rules should be interpreted, e.g. of factors that may affect continued management in the spirit presented in the report. Second, the bill suggests that new laws, which contain limitations on how many other jobs executives and executives in systematicly important financial companies and systematicly important international financial companies, can be handled in other members of the Union's administration. The directives introduce material found in 3,◯6. mg Ninety-one. English CRD IV directives. The bill suggests that management and executives in systematicly important financial companies will be prohibited from taking on jobs in other members' administrative modules if a number of such jobs exceed a certain limit. A total of activity in other organisations may be a maximum of four administrative institutions in members or one executive's work at the same time as two administrations. The number of exceptions comes from these requirements, which includes all members of the same body of members of the same body as one work in the sense of the regulations. The same is true of all jobs in the administrative units of a partner that financial company has an active stake in and any activity in a member of a partner's administrative unit, which is part of a institutions protection system to which a financial company is involved. The restrictions do not begin in the management modules of non-employment partners for a main policy, e.g. Companies, sports partners, housemates, etc. In addition to this, the SEC has the authority to give an exception to a one - member board in addition to special circumstances, so that some are not provided, as the bill shows. The bill specifically seeks to make use of the directive's scope for the introduction of this directive, so that there will be minimal restrictions on the number of jobs. As a result, the weight of the average amount of Icelandic business is more common in European comparison. It is suggested in the bill that limits reach only those who work for systematicly important financial companies. Finally, it is suggested that they do not take effect until January 1, 2020, thus allowing those who have to give these limitations the opportunity to change in time. Third, this bill presents a rule that obligates executives to devote sufficient time to their work in support of a financial enterprise. This change involves suggesting that the responsibility of the management board to devote sufficient time to their work in support of financial companies is also being applied to the Commission. This is in accordance with 2 mgr. Ninety-one. Brew, like 13. CRD IV protocols. It may be asked, " Is it necessary to write such a law? Is it not enough to result from a contract and from the general duties of those taking such jobs? ' In any case, the rules of the European Regulation on financial companies that stretch their scent here in Iceland, and we put forth the effort to coordinate the regulations of financial companies with these important new directives. A respectable president. I suggest that this bill be referred to. The Economic and Business Committee, after the end of this discussion and then through 2nd. Here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u66	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of the story. I think it's a good thing. There's some sort of foregone change in my opinion. They result from the nature of the case. There will probably be further changes due to the introduction of European Union directives in these areas. There are two changes, one to the accountants, like the highest. A minister entered, and, on the other hand, the limitations of other management jobs in systematicly important financial companies. I have no comment on the change in other management jobs and the limitations in those topics. She could have even gone further, as far as I'm concerned. However, the interesting change is that accountants are being obliged to provide specific information to the SEC. As far as I can see, there's no more confidentiality of accountants. It'd be interesting to know, if it was the highest. A minister knows, whether the viewpoint of accountants on this particular point in Article 4. which will then be 92 C.E. The law, the show, and the ultimate. A minister can inform us.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u67	A respectable president. I'm not aware of the opinions of the accountants in particular on this point, but this is a special rule that focuses on the surveillance duties of many people with special regulations. This is another cautionary rule in a way in which the duty of surveillance, the family of cops, has taken on those who have taken on responsibilities for financial companies. In this regard, it should not be overlooked that even if it involves confidentiality between shops and accountants in such cases as others, the financial system all puts into place and I want to say professional life in Iceland very much trust in the work being done and the information being made public on the basis of that work. How far I should go in this regard, I feel that there is a lot to say in my history that it can depend on interpretation when there is something that could possibly affect the continued business of a company, thus calling out an obligatory announcement to UNEC. These are factors that I think should be considered, and I would call for opinions from those working in this environment for political treatment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u68	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister on the counter. He was glad that this was to be considered during conquistancy within the committee. I think it's necessary to get accountants' viewpoints in this regard. That is a clear law on accountants in the year 30 C.E. track No. 79/2008, which discusses the confidentiality of accountants. It says that they are committed to all that they know how to do because of their work, and that they should be secretized by the law or the nature of the matter. Then it can be taken by court order or legal action. So here, this law goes again in the bill in the law of accountants. I'm glad to hear it. A minister noted that this will be considered within the committee and given the views of accountants. Since it's turning towards them, I think it's very necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u69	A respectable president. I just want to reiterate that I think more than probably listen to views from the article, that I'm referring to accountants, as well as financial concerns that take place by the rules. We have experience that it may be reversed to rely solely on this external check. Therefore, laws and regulations on the activities of financial companies have been sewn up by themselves to evaluate the risk in business. This takes place in a government report on a number of business risks. In other words, it is laid up on the companies to take the initiative in their own risk assessment and reporting to the Rapporteur, but not just to put it into the Rapporteur's hands to call out for information that is considered important at any given time. We're walking farther and farther along this path, not only seeing an external surveillance provider, but seeing that it's the living conversation of the companies, and in this case also the accountants' companies, in order to protect us from any risk that can affect the public and the business of the country. I think there are many indications that in recent years we have been able to improve safety and reduce risks. This in itself is a cause for rejoicing and hopefully to increase confidence in the financial system in general.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u70	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the story on this bill, which will be late to win a title as fun or easy to read. But I wanted to direct a short question to the highest. Minister. The bill is based primarily on the European Union directives, if I understand that correctly. Then I'd like to know: Is there a clean introduction bill, or are there other ways in which we are adding to the principle? Second, I ask about the number of administrative and executive jobs that individuals can perform. Does Ministers believe that this rule - when it went into effect, which would not be until 2020, according to the bill, if I read it correctly - could have a good effect on the multiplicity of the government in Iceland? I realize that we're talking about limited companies, systematicly important financial companies, but it's often been discussed that there's a relatively monotonous group sitting in the administrations of many companies in Iceland. In particular, there have been cases of gender ratios, that too few women are in control, and there are often the same women who are in many governments. It's as if we don't sometimes get to look outside the company because I don't doubt that there's a lot of qualified individuals here, both men and women, to be part of the governments of these companies. But does a minister think that this might improve his situation?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u71	A respectable president. For the first thing, I would like to point out that there is a key purpose in the arrangement that is rooted in the fact that these may be challenging jobs. However, it should be considered that we are here in building a Regulation on financial enterprises in the European Economic Areas, and as I went along with my history, it is not the same financial business as a financial company. In this regard, we have considered that the rules should primarily apply to the bill - in fact, only - take up systematicly important financial companies. Whether there is a potential for greater diversity, it is not quite good to determine, but it is a valid view that it may be relevant, both for varied experiences and for the same sex ratios. Above all, it is the purpose of the rules here to reflect over Icelandic legislation that people have not taken on such complex projects and that they do not have so many trust jobs in big financial companies that they lose perspective.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u72	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for these answers. Maybe I'll back it up again if this is the case, as we often put it, a pure introduction bill. But I just agree that it is usually this way when we receive orders from the European Union that our goals are usually worth the price - but sometimes it may be difficult to read through the text and see if they are totally relevant here on land under our circumstances. I declare, however, that I think it is very important that the law regarding financial enterprises in this country meets these standards, just to contribute to the competitiveness of these companies and such. I think we're gonna go through this real good at what we're doing. The Economic and Business Committee. But it would be nice to hear from the minister whether this is a clean introduction bill, as it is called. It has often been called upon by members of our council that it is clear that many other parts of the projections are important to us, as we review them on the committees, are clearly aware of exactly what are involved by the European Commission's directives we are taking in. Sometimes there are other factors in there too, and it's good to be completely clear. I'll admit I haven't read the bill yet. It may clearly show whether it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u73	A respectable president. I made it clear in the introduction that the rule we're adjusting for in this case has not been recorded in the EEA Court. This does not change the fact that we have considered it wise to initiate integration of the regulations for financial companies to European rights. This is an enormous rule that obviously will end up in the EEA rights and it can take years, reportedly, to complete all the adjustment. In the past, we've presented every time that these are changes related to a rule of action that would be sailing into the EEA agreement but would not have become part of it. In that respect, we are making an excellent contribution to the extensive changes in financial activities in the water. But since this is the case, the council has, of course, totally free to EEA rights. In other words, no commitments have come of any kind to adopt the rule. However, we have evaluated the situation so far that the changes in materials, as well as what is being done, are good changes that will improve the legal environment of the country's financial institutions.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u74	A respectable president. Here I recommend a bill to correct customs law, no. 88/2005, with subsequent changes. The bill is made up in the Ministry of Economics, having agreed with the customs manager's office. The objective of the bill is to make improvements on the rules of customs legislation on the exchange of funds between countries and on the other hand, on the terms of refreshments and revocation of so-called VRA witnesses. The budgeting team, which is often FAF short - cost, is an independent international agency. It is designed to develop and work to protect the international financial system from money theft, terrorist funding, and the spread of mass destruction weapons. In April of this year, FAFF published a report on the evaluation of Iceland's activities on money theft and terrorist funding. The report gives some comments to the Icelandic legal environment. The comments touch, including Council recommendations No. 32 to transport funds from country to country. Together, FAFF criticized that the announcement of the export of funds from countries was not sufficiently clear to customs law. On the other hand, the group felt that there were insufficient sources of repair and maintenance of funds. The bill responds with suggestions for changing certain customs. For a more detailed explanation, I refer to the piece of the bill, which is very close to each other. XX. Chapter A toll is discussed with VRA certification. Such a witness can be published by a toll manager after an application procedure. The VRA doesn't make any sense. It means that the attorney is a so-called recognized operator. Such persons can have special treatment for customs. Specific treatment is provided in this context e.g. This means simpler customs check-ups and priorities for customs monitoring. People who have been exposed to VRA enjoy it during the import therapy but can also benefit from customs treatment abroad. However, economics abroad depend on the Icelandic government's having made a mutual recognition agreement with the Member State. In such a contract, the Member State accepts the VRA certificate of Icelandic legislation and provides an adequate toll treatment on that basis. The customs manager's office conducts an experimental project to review the activity and conduct VRA certification. Some Icelandic companies join in the project, hoping that it will soon be over after a New Year's Eve. While mutual consents have not yet been made with other countries, there is still open debate. The day has come when the VRA regulations are subject to two problems that must be overcome before formal negotiations occur. First, the definition of the conditions required to obtain VRA is inadequate. The bill suggests changes to correct this. Second, to verify that VRA certification criteria have not been met, the toll manager's permissions to obtain and work with information. So the bill suggests that a new article will be added to XX. section A toll layer. In this article, the plan is to get adequate access to the Customer in this regard. For a more detailed explanation, I refer to the bill's work. It should be noted that VRA's arrangements follow their model for the methodology developed by the World Tolla Institute. This work is part of the Agency's efforts to support international trading, to reduce business costs, and to promote the cooperation of toll authorities. A respectable president. According to this, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u75	Mr. President. It was rather quickly happening. Now, in some respects, it is an excellent proposal, which is expressed by the Central Party. There is a great need for improvements in air security in Iceland and the airports, especially. However, there are some points to this suggestion. First of all, I said yesterday in protest that neither Alexander's airport nor the Trinity airport were on a transport program at the moment. There is no problem with this suggestion, but there is a flaw in the way we approach the bases of air traffic and aerospace for a pilot; these are the only two airports in the country that are not inside the grid. Then there is reason to wonder if any other procedure is more reasonable in this context and may not be as costly as building Alexander's airport as a reserve airport. But I'm not saying we're going to have that operation at all. Alexander's airport has many advantages, e.g. 1.87 m long track. But she has only tar-bound grass as a surface that isn't quite good enough. I'd like to see the asphalt. The major problem with Alexander's airport is the path, whereas the sound of the plane itself is not very large. It's hard to get a lot of airplanes in there. To put it in a context, every morning between 40 and 50 planes from the Icelandic airlines, all other airlines are on their way between North America and Iceland. Most of them might take enough fuel to get to Glasgow if needed. But there are machines from the West Coast of the United States that would simply not get there if something important were to happen. Some aircraft today can be placed at the Akureyri Airport and at the Eglish Airport, but the case, such as with Alexander's airport, cannot be placed in a lot of airplanes. At Alexander's airport, you may be able to place one or two planes onto an airport before it is filled, perhaps four or five, and that is not enough to deal with the problem. I think there's a reason for us to think about this with a view to solving the problem of landing 40 to 50 planes anywhere else but at Keflavour Airport with short notice if necessary. You start to look at the insides. Both Akureyri Airport and Eglish Airport have ILS as an example of aeroplane system that allows airplanes to land, although not visible. This would have to be added to Alexander's airport for this to work. In addition, there is much more accurate and more directional instruments at both airports, and this adds to the larger altitudes of flying, and the runway is crushed. Interestingly, the ideas that have been raised, along a runway, would be much less expensive and better able to handle the problem. Now I'm saying this with them in advance that I'm not against this suggestion. I think it's fine if we build Alexander's airport. There are many good reasons for making the suggestion. It can also be thought of as a way of building up wood in the general land. We know that there's a lot of stress at the Cheflavík Airport. Much has been said about the need to spread the pressure. The stress management has more security but more economic possibilities as well. It is the best thing to bring more traffique into Akureyri and Eunice, and it is an excellent approach to think a little wide in this context. In addition to this, it may be appropriate to point out that more than a sheep's jar is a simple opportunity to do better. In fact, it would take little effort to make the airport there bearable and powerful for the environment around it. The Cape of the Hornfjords also has a good track and a good airport. It would have to be extended a little bit, and a blind flight equipment would need to be used and a chance to land external aircraft. A proposal to make this statement has been made several times at a council in the South Sea Council and is a reason to consider it in this context. I'm not gonna have this much further. I'm not against this suggestion, I just think maybe they're setting priorities in the wrong place. This smells like a tiny ballot pool. Not that it is necessarily bad, but it would be an obvious first step to attack the park where it is the lowest. So it may be primarily a matter of priorities. It's also said among the pilots I know to make the most important airport possible, the one closest to you when something comes up. So, of course, let's try to contribute to high - quality airports all over the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u76	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy for the speech and a review in this case. This case is not held at the head of other airports. Rather, it is thought to add to the security network and to watch for the rise in air travel to the country. It has been demonstrated, as shown in a paper with the synoptic proposal, that when a gap in Eyjafjörður took place, this location would have been very convenient if it had been necessary to have a reserve airport. We transporters realize that this means almost complete structure on the field of the area. He doesn't carry heavy and large machines just the way he is today. This is not going to happen tomorrow. In connection with the transport program, and what the Senator entered there, we who are taking this matter are not responsible for a transport plan. I realize that flights in general are not well understood in that schedule, so that's just what they say. But words do begin with everything, and all travel begins with one step.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u77	Mr. President. Yes, it is true that there are many opportunities, and often simple and inexpensive, to build up the flying grid. I'll take this opportunity in response to an antiquated question. A senator sees that this building should take place at the same time. Does he agree with me in the priority of adding a track in Akureyri and Egls, first taking in Alexander's airport? Information about this could be very helpful. Now these are the two airports I mentioned, in Thyatira and in a sheep's jar, outside the base of the transportation network in accordance with the available transport strategy. Is it not reasonable to add them and also give other landing sites - and there are quite a number of registered landing sites in the country - some role in a transport program, both in the interests of flying security and also simply in order to understand it, even though money does not necessarily follow immediately, that it is in place? They are very important, especially for flying but also for domestic flights and other things. Why not identify them in a transport program, that they are there, and that they are relevant even if they are not necessarily at the same level as at larger airports? I may be taking advantage of an answer to ask questions, but that's the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u78	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator. So I'll come to it like a dog. A senator concluded on them, I agree that such a plan could be pointed to, although it was not financed, just to draw attention to the assignment. He spoke of a road along the path of Akureyri. Now, in my mind, when you're dealing with transportation and other big structures, I don't put myself in the position that I want this road before this or something like that, but just what the need is in general. That's why I'm representing this case on Alexander's Airport. I'm looking at this in general, that there is a need for extra security in the Air Force in general. I think this place is very good for that assignment. Speaking of time frames, the frame is not exactly in place in time. At least I can say this isn't about to happen tomorrow, I know. It has been identified, the location is a good geographic location, and in the historical context, as attributed to the report, it is well located. In view of this too, if a eruption occurs, or another disaster, which could inhibit other places in the country. That's the idea. I don't know what a mess is, but I'm certainly a senator of the district where this airport is. Maybe it's just a coincidence, I don't know.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u79	Mr. President. It seems to me that we agree pretty much on the importance of success. Our priorities are always a tiresome task, the need to put some things off in behalf of others. In any case, this is a good suggestion, and I would suggest, concomitant treatment with this proposal, that such changes in transport will be achieved, so that Alexander's airport will be given the place that other airports can get in the program and that we will continue this conversation. You see, this structure is needed in a great way. Finally, with regard to a ball: I hear that the Northwestern concept is an excellent representative of his business, and that's the best case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u80	Mr. President. As a pilot, I would like to participate in these interesting discussions. As they say, air travel is a big deal in the discussion. This is in itself public transportation or public transportation in Iceland because we have no other option. So the flight is our railroad. When I say so, it's the need to get between places quickly and safely, from practically downtown somewhere to the capital, virtually downtown, and vice versa. This arrangement exists in other countries and, in my opinion, we should try to think about flying as our railroad. This brings them to the State's responsibilities. There should be a few of them, making it easier for them to travel. Duties are also rich. They need to ensure that they are near such transport workers, and that, of course, comes to the capital as well. She does not just have obligations to herself when it comes to e.g. Reykjavíkur Airport, it's also a national duty. I'm not going to talk about the flying issues from the prices or the Scottish route or whatever, but about what's under here, the design and location of a particular airport. You see, there are suddenly several conferences involving airports, e.g. So if you can put it that way, you will be able to speak in that way - in Reykjavík and in Akureyri, in the name of Egressians, and in the case of this new issue, which is actually not new, a sheep's airport. There's a pact proposal for two intermediate airports, i.e. Capes and Western Islands. They're looking for new airports on the West Coast, so you see that there's plenty of airports to take. And into it, of course, it's the airport I just mentioned earlier, the Reykjavík airport. One question when looking at all of this is: How many birds in the international airport do we need to cover within the country? How Would You Answer? There is a political answer, but what is the technical answer to this? I don't know how to answer that. But inside it is intertwined, as I said to the south of Reykjavík, and possibly to the close of it, and there is a question, of course, that it will be no more if it is reduced and held in such a way that it will remain our railway station. That's a big question that's intervening into all this discussion. It's also because it's close to the capital, but it's obvious that I don't really think it's as suitable as Reykjavík's own airport. In addition, it lies in a geologically far more delicate area than both Reykjavíkur Airport and Cheflavík Airport. We can imagine that if you think of the Washingoff Airport as your backup airport, at least it's at least the airport. Regarding weather conditions in the same weather zone as the Cheflavor airport, I can't imagine it being a substitute for one of the four that I mentioned. We will see how complicated it really is to become with all these ideas. When it comes to the question of Alexander's airport as a spare airport, I'm going to babysit, I'm not sure how to handle this bill if I could do it just by myself, or i.e. A concierge proposal this is, so I'll come ashore with the bill. It's expensive, and we're in there in this big merry-go-round with three, four, five possible backup airports in Iceland. Another factor is natural airports for international flights, although it is more costly. Now this case has been presented for the fourth time, and I'm simply hoping to get it into committees and forwards, to be professionally working on the questions presented there. But the important thing in my case is that it's time and enough grounds to clean up the airports in Iceland and make up the flight policy we need. It may have been available in the discussion, it has existed in the minds of men, but trying to establish a whole-scale flight policy through the Council, and in a measure of reconciliation there is no need to speed up that work. That's exactly when it comes to professionalism, i.e. Air-technical professionalism, and the politics are in second place because flight is the nature of the politics not to overshadow the flying technology. I'd like to finally come up with an idea that I've heard people talking to each other at the council for such a synonym that calls on a committee, how could it be handled in a way that I've heard that occurred in a foreign country, e.g., instead of giving another committee. I don't know how many committees are currently employed in the council, there must be dozens, it's hard to find these committees especially with government officials. I understand that there is a foreign strategy that a minister of one expert, let's say in this case, a highly educated and experienced flight engineer, to give the opinion of a particular case, but he has full permission to seek assistance and to seek out information and cooperation far and wide. In other words, it is taking a little rainy off, and in certain cases, a committee report will replace it with a committee report, which is not based solely on his own opinion. This will be thought - provoking at the end of that brief talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u81	A respectable president. This is a synoptic proposal to hide transport and rural government officials from making a thorough examination of the advantages of making Alexander's airport on the Sea of Year's Airport a reserve airport for Cheflavík, Reykjavík's Airport, Akureyri Airport, and Lavilation Airport. I come up here to agree with this proposal, as this is a good candidate case, which the company held for in previous councils and is almost unchanged from the start. paritaprevir Ásmundur Einar Daðason moved it here at 144th. But the purpose of the weekend. Now they're opening up on a rented flight, straight from the outside, to Akureyri. It is known that landing conditions may be difficult in Akureyri, and the airports that they can consider are in theegories of Egls, which are 264 miles away, or in Keflavík, some 388 miles away, so these are quite long distances, if they are to move between landways. If there is safety in Akureyri in place as an international airport, it would be better to be closer to Akureyri. It has long been looked upon as a reserve airport in view of weather conditions. Alexander's airport is well - located where flight is good, the tide is wide, and there is little obstacle. I am accompanied by the fact that this airport would bring a good service to Akureyri as a reserve airport; he could trust that important operation and flight in general. So there is a good chance that this matter will be examined and examined. Then there is the possibility that things will have to be evaluated. This is also a factor in distributing tourists throughout the country, but it is often noted that transportation and construction are important factors in distributing tourists around the country. The strength of the international airport in most parts of the country is a powerful means in these areas. Then the road system takes over and over again. In order to balance the competitive status of a part of the country in transport services and living conditions, international airports are important criteria. It is also important for other jobs, such as the development of fish farming or fish exports and other freight transport routes. A new developed strategy stresses supporting the development of new flight routes to the country to support regular international flights. Thus, it might seem that more possibilities than those in the current spotlight would have to be considered. I can say anything. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthyr's when he talks about taking a full look at these issues, which puts the whole country underneath. I'd also like to point out a synopsis proposal from what happened. paritaprevir The Guðjón of Brunn's Brjánsson, whose turn is to find a new airport on the West. It is important to consider this whole - souled matter. I'll take into account the tips that have been shown here. Hv. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson pointed out that the flight date had to be taken, but it just doesn't exist. It's time to work on that. The factors that have been introduced by the people here may fall under such a course. I think it's best to speed up that job no matter what. That is what I want to express my support for the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u82	A respectable president. Here's a suggestion for the interpretation of Alexander's airport as a reserve airport for the Cheflavík, Reykjavík, Akureyri and Eglil Standard Airport. The candidate for the proposal is why. paritaprevir Sigurður Páll Jónsson. It reads, with President's permission: ▪ The General concluded to hide a transport and rural government minister from making a thorough investigation of the options of making Alexander's airport in the south of the corner of the South Sea to a reserve airport for Cheflavour Airport, Brooklyn Airport, Akureyri Airport, and Liel's Airport. The secretary would like to introduce the results of the survey as late as January 2019, 1996. I'd like to start by saying thank you very much for the suggestion. I never get tired of talking about flying. This suggestion is a good introduction to that discussion. I think that the most widely used word that was used here in the Senate hall since I started an airport and a spare airport. This subject is related to a discussion that has been attempted over the past few years, pointing out the serious situation that has been involved in these matters. This matter can be addressed in many ways. My first suggestion would be that rural communities in the northwestern country did, in a manner similar to the Council of Eygirdy in this year, a projection program for the Akureyri Airport on what has to be done to strengthen the airport. It would be very good to have our rural communities agree on a real plan on what would have to be done to make such an airport an airfield and an international airport. If he is to serve as an alternate airport for this airport, he must be a witness to the international airport. That is a lot of work and a lot of work. During the past few years, there was a growing demand for a witness in the international airport, making everything that has to do with these objects constantly. I don't immediately understand the numbers that could be behind such a project to make Alexander's airport a real national airport, but I think it might be a considerable amount of money. If I had to shoot at a amount of money, I'd think that between 10 and 20 billion would go on that project. I don't know the capacity of the current runway at Alexander's airport, and I honestly didn't have time to look at it. It should not be too complicated to access data, but it is key to how large a plane can land at the airport and how much the airport weighs. Certain rules and standards are used for this, and they are a major factor in determining which planes are possible for all. There's an oil mile in the field, it's not as bad as it is. To tell you the truth, I don't really know the pressure, how the scholarship is at the airport, whether it's sand or not. Since the ministry of international flights is quite significant, there has been an opportunity - but mainly the airports in Akureyri, Eelsports, and Reykjavík have been able to perform the role of second-hand airports and have taken considerable flights to the ground and to the surface. You need to strengthen that service beyond what is needed for your domestic flight and to be on the field for international flights, to strengthen the firefighters on the field in order to withstand that firefighting service on the field. That service is classified according to the size of machines and the number of passengers entering the field. They need a fire service. Then we can list the other items on the list that need to be there. In fact, I feel that it is unrealistic to perform such a project in January 2019 according to the scope of the fact that I know it myself. I've done a project similar in terms of these things. It might take a little more time. This also focuses on what facilities and may have to be available for the ministry at international airports. There are lots of factors. The airport's natural requirements are to meet those of aerospace operators who make it possible to engage in international flights. These are factors such as runway distances, the ability of flights, the flights offered, and the services available to provide on the ground by means of the services available to the airport. It is also necessary to recognize that air traffic services or air traffic services. There hasn't been a controlled flight, so-called airport guards have been there. So it all has to be defined and marked in the box. As I noted earlier, there are other factors, such as what firefighters are at that airport and what has to be done to meet those demands. Whatever equipment they use at that airport is about braking and snowing, which can be a major challenge. You may find that a sofa and a tooth at an airport cost some 100 million dollars. K. For every island. So the cost is quick to come. In Keflavík, I remind me there are nine of these and three in Akureyri and three more than two in Egls. So it's in equipment and equipment soon, and it should be pointed out. The flights, the pros, and the defects of the flights must then be identified as a link to flights and landscapes. I believe that there are good conditions in the Tahlftir in this regard. It is open to the south and to the north, and wide to the wall, so it should not be a problem, and it is a good location. We'd need information on the new nature rate of the field. There would have to be some information about the potential benefits of such a harvest. There's a lot of work to do in getting data on weather readings. During a discussion on a spare airport, I would like to point out two sources of transport. I want to read them up here. On the one hand, Icelanda's review of the transport program that we are now working on at the council. Then I quote the review: ▪ At the time of the year, it can be estimated that at the same time, there may be more than 30 aircraft on the way to the Cheflavor airport, all of which assume to use airports in Iceland, other than the Gulf Airport, as a spare airport. Due to the surrounding airports in Cheflavík and Reykjavík, they may report wind, visor, or cloud height as an inhibitor of both airports and therefore not to any other spare airports in the country than Akureyri and Egress sites. Because of limited space in the airports of these airports, it is impossible for them to perform their roles for all aircraft that would have to land there if such conditions were created. Clearly, such situations can pose a real threat. Icelandair's estimates are that small - size flight batteries and the lack of airports at Akureyri and the Egressium are the greatest threat of safety in flight to and from Iceland. Based on the data available to celandair and on the offer of a review, it is not to be seen that any funding should be spent on these issues in 2019◯2023. In our opinion, it is absolutely incorrigible. I can now inform you here that I am the chairman of a committee acting on these matters. We expect to submit the results in these months to strengthen the foundation of the emergency flights so that we will have a report before a transport program is adopted into that discussion. What Iclinanda says in reviews about the backup airports is all that I've been pointing out here. It is evident that Iclanders take a very serious consideration of a national reserve airport. That's another note we've seen in Icellands before. Of course, Icelanders have never sent such reports from them as they talk about how they look at a backup airport out of safety and what is the main threat of international flights to and from Keflavík, i.e. disabled backup airports. I'm happy for all the discussions that are involved, but I don't have time for the review of the FIA Security Committee. On the other hand, I'm amazed. Every member of the body to see what appears in it as well. There have been many years of reviews about these things that we are discussing here, which are indelibly equipped with reserve airports, and the condition that can arise as a result. I just want to see that in this discussion that Reykjavík's airport is an important part of the national international airport system. There are only four reserve airports, so each one plays a very important role. I'd say, like, I don't know. I've heard that at 80% of Icelanda's dropoffs from Keflavík, Reykjavík's airport is being used as a final airport. People need to learn something about how the system works in order to understand the importance of things. You can't give yourself in advance how it works all the time. Then I'll discuss a considerable amount of business on Reykjavík, then on the airfield. However, I would like to reiterate what I mentioned at the beginning of the talk, and I would like to encourage rural society in the northeastern region to work on a projection plan in a way that the ELA worked for Ethal this year, which is facing the construction of Alexander's airport. It could be a very good input into the structure. Aeroplane policy is being developed and can be expected to appear in the early part of the next year, which is very important for the long - term flight. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u83	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech. You and I sitting in this room, we know why. A senator knows very well about the airport. This is especially Alexander's airport. As a matter of fact, I have to admit that I didn't quite know where he was until I started here at a council and could start reading about it; it's probably not quite a general knowledge where he is. But I'm afraid a little bit, with a synopsis proposal like this, which I don't doubt is written by a good mind alone--I've also heard council officials speak for this--that we may be distributing our emphasis and embezzling over. Because of what? A senator was just shooting at how much this would cost, which, of course, is rough, I wanted to hear it from the wind. A senator where he believes our emphasis should rest in this regard. I think that all of us must agree on the importance of backup flights based primarily on safety issues. A few years ago, while visiting a company, I was on my way to a weather plan, as it happens at that place, it wasn't flying home. I'm getting a little carried away with this. Whether to run a business under these circumstances. Then the director said, "What matters to us is that the roads are all right. " We'll get to Reykjavík and get to Chefavík and get out of the country. It is far more important to stress safe and sound transportation, rather than necessarily strong air transport across the country, when we have to prioritize and choose either. I wanted to hear from what I heard. A senator, where he believes our emphasis should be in this context.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u84	Thank you. A senator for the question. I think we should focus on faults built up in full - time service and strengthen them. There are really those who make it possible for us to run these backup airports, i.e. that there is a service that will be useful in this. It may be necessary to extend the course just beyond the services needed for domestic flights and such factors, but the groundwork is all in place for it. It's very expensive to run a airport only as a spare airport. Last winter's experiment was made regarding international flights to and between Alexander's airport, between the Year's Eve and the city of Reykjavík. I'd like to see it develop in the future. It may not have gone quite well, but clearly, I would like to see it and possibly what has been foretold, to examine the Scottish route and other ways, to encourage it; I would like to see it happen. Roads never fully save by keeping transportation open for 300, 400, 500, or 700 miles long, where it can be flown over 40 to50 minutes, so it's clear. There are huge problems with the flight of Iceland over the edge of the field, where local communities have talked a lot about coming in with a new location and building up an airport. During the West, there is a great interest in building up international airports, in freight transport and passenger flights, in the same way that we know of visitors. The work has been done there, and things are being done. I think we should focus primarily on what is present. I suspect that in this case, in regard to Alexander's airport, men are looking for a longer future. In itself, a new airport has to be built from scratch, and after a little study, I suspect. Today, when large jets and jets are treated, little is used today.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u85	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. He enters what I had thought to mention in my second answer about the cost of business. It is one thing to determine what measures must be taken so that the course can be useful as a reserve airport, which will lead to the operation. Hv. A senator did well. But I think it's important to include it in this discussion too, when we discuss these factors, i.e. Long-term business. I'm not going to belittle it. I think it's very important that we have some strong backup airports here. There are specific airports that meet these requirements today. But like a dog. A senator has been diligent in pointing us out the need to act on a particular challenge in this regard. But I just wanted to include in this discussion and to emphasize the importance of looking at the big picture and setting priorities. Sadly, we do not have all the funds that we would so like to put on an amendment for transportation, despite the fact that much more money is now involved in these matters, as we see in a new transport program. Yet, we still want much more, and we want many of these projects to become a reality sooner. This may have been the main thing I wanted to say in this context, the way we should look at it. We must always look at the big picture in the long run, and so do our operating expenses.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u86	A respectable president. Yeah, thanks for the question. That may be exactly what you would point out to be most desirable. I know that this is an enormous interest, and it has been a long time, in the northwestern for viewing Alexander's airport as a reserve airport and building there. It would be very strong for the rural community to work on this project, both in terms of investment costs, stock costs, what would have to be done, and then again, information about actual cost. It is an investment, then a business, a daily business. It's also about definitions; it's an airport with control or airport without control, and then it's mechanical units, maintenance, and the like. In order for the Senate arrangement to stand stronger, it would be most desirable to have such information available. Of course, the project is being requested, and hopefully they will be received information later. But this is basically what I wanted to say. However, there is one airport that has historically been an international airport at Cape Hornfjord. It was defined as the international airport. He was very useful for my planes crossing the sea, as a security field for Reykjavík and Keflavour Airport, but they flew by. It was good when people came across the ocean on my low - altitude machines to have it as a security guard on that flight. This is an example of what you might consider next and then to my machines, that he would be defined by a certain type of service to do that. On the Cape of the Hornfjord, I think it might be more about customs services and such factors. It is not a big deal, but it may be a matter of security. Of course, we also know about the interest in international airports. We've heard that in A year's city. We've heard about Ísafjörður and Alexander's airports and other locations, and people are very interested in these matters. That's clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u87	V.E.G. President. I feel like I'm in the middle of a class. I want to thank you very much for this discussion. I've listened very carefully here. We are now spoken of as having a set time frame on when we would like answers on these matters. We had January in the suggestion, and the question is, How far forward next year we have to go in order to make the timing practical. Then I wondered about the quality and security, what's the way they're being conducted today at the reserve airports we have today, and that's why they're also at Keflavík Airport. That's when I'm wondering about snowstorm or snowfall and fireproofs. Is there a particular assessment, or are they somehow followed up? So how are the reserve airports that we now have along with the Cheflavour Airport? Then there were some terms that were completely novel in my mind. That's what they call a controlled airport or an uncontrollable one. What's the difference? I'm asking this because somehow I suspect that an uncontrolled airport is not as expensive in business and is in charge. I wondered about these things in this lesson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u88	A respectable president. I appreciate the question. I only came into it with Witnesses at airports and international airports. These requirements have been under way for the last few years, and new rules have been taken in use. So all four international airports in Iceland, Cheflavík, Reykjavík, Akureyri, and Bulgaria are Witnesses of the United States of ESAs. This process has been gaining weight. There is a greater demand for international airports. On September 11, 2001, after the attacks in New York City, this began quite well. Then there was a tremendous change, such as the safety of airports and their demands. Witnesses have been making progress, how to operate, and all of it. An airfield, an unstable airport. In the shortest edition, there is an air traffic control manager who controls traffic, and at the uncontrollable airports, there are not pilots, but so-called AFIFs, airport guards, who give flight information at those airports. That's the difference. Today in Iceland, air traffic officials are at Keflavík Airport, Reykjavíkur Airport, and Akureyri Airport. That's the basic difference between the two.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u89	V.E.G. President. Thank you so much. I've only come closer to understanding. These rules have been reinforced, and I wonder again: Do we end up being identified by more airports on the land? If I understand this correctly, if the definition of a backup airport is controlled, but security airport, is he an uncontrollable airport? Are we mistaken about a conference conclusion about a reserve airport when we should be talking about a security airport or have ESA standards become narrow or rigid or updated, or what words we would like to use, ours, if we are going to be standing, are defined as backup airports? I'm just going to reiterate my time frame next year in January. Hv. One senator says that this delay will not work if we are going to examine these things in practical terms. I'd like to ask, too, if there's any information on how we're doing and the quality and security surveillance of the reserve airports we're running today.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u90	A respectable president. I appreciate the question. In terms of the time frame of the report, I think it would be reasonable to submit this to at least in April, May, so that such work can be done and data collected, if there is to be a specific date for the proposal. Security airport. It may not be a term that humans have used to describe an airport. We've got a backup airport. Then you can be with a reserve airport, such as the Egls Airport, with its 2,000 - foot [200 m] feet [200 m] and its weight - bearing capacity to carry jets and extensive use of jets. He's out of control. You can have the backup airport out of control. It may take more time to get many machines down in a short period of time, if you simply say this on such a level as on a controlled field. The machines can come in tight, let's say, as they have been seen in April. This court does its part very well, so I don't think we're necessarily talking about a security airport in this. Although it may be very well understood in spoken language, we do not use that word when talking in general about airports, that is, at least. A certain new word for me, so that's clear too. I don't expect indiscriminate reserves to increase a lot. There is also such vast differences between the burden value and the ability of choice, a specific definition taken there. It takes an airport to cope with certain weights and other factors, such calculations. That's quite different from what we have. A lot of airports today may be the basis for weight on the Fucker. A 20 - to 25 - ton engine takes 50 passengers, making it the capacity and length of roads. But then there's a whole different group when we get 150, 200, 250 jets.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u91	V.E.G. President. We're here to discuss a synopsis of Alexander's airport as a reserve airport for the Cheflavík, Reykjavík, Akureyri and Eglil Standard Airport. This case has been raised several times here. Well, it seems to me at the council that in the first place it occurred in the 141 legislature, and I refer them to Article 1027, case 604. This has been a case brought by members of the district council and has led by the Assembly of the House of forwarders. Now, the entire Central Party chooses to follow this case, and it's a good thing. It seems to me that this is completely in agreement or inconsistencies to me, so much is the interest in this matter, and that's just a positive thing. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir The Njáll of Trausti Friðbertsson for an excellent review. He here speaks with knowledge and knowledge about these matters. We may well have a member of a council who has such knowledge and can instruct us in these matters. All of us realize that our airports are important and are listed in the report. Distances to the roads within the country are covered. It has been a good privilege, as it were, to review what it means for people in the various districts and areas of society to get around. It's not easy. We've been focusing on promoting public transportation. We clearly need to improve the transport process, and the transport budget has not been set before as well as in a transport program. But we all know that we need to do better. We need to find ways to improve the quality of these matters, and all of us agree on it. A significant discussion has been made about our reserve airports for the Cheflavík airport, then the Reykjavík International Airport, Akureyri Airport, and Eglish Airport. We need to do better at those airports. There have been various viewpoints about this, and it is well worth it. We need to have a vision for the future, as well as for others, and it's remarkable that in the 100 - year history of international flight, we are now working on flying policies. It has put the current transport minister on the ground, and I eagerly await the future. We are really dependent on flying here, many parts of the country are certainly, just as we are dependent on safe road transport and good transport in general. Regular flights make sure that professional life can be flourishing and that people can work between areas. It is, therefore, a growing industry, and it is extremely important. Like what? paritaprevir Njáll by Trausti Friðbertsson, it is expensive to keep the airport going. It's expensive if we're going to drive a certain airport as a backup airport. There's a lot of equipment. A variety of basic equipment should be in order. There are expensive equipment that must be used and kept out. The transport conditions and the like need to be evaluated. But I have to agree with what's happened here, and I've also heard that there's a very favorable situation there, even so that Alexander's airport could be a reserve airport for the Akureyri airport. Looks like it's the best thing for who. I don't think we should shut down any of these options. It's different with the airports that have changed, once here was a number of landing sites and a number of airports all over the country, and they were enormously important. Then the road system was even lower than now. If I took an example of the northeast corner, a plane could be taken between Bakkafjörður and weapons farms and weapons supplies would soon fly to Eglíl. It is transformed today, and there is no basis for it anymore, but in most places the roads have improved, although I can certainly agree that we still need to improve it and are doing so today. We need to shape our view of the future. That's why it's very important that we set up a flight policy, that we get it out, and take a tour of where we're going to go in this material. The aircraft are also being taken into the public transportation system by a so - called Scottish route. Many people look to that positive attitude, and I hope that it will equal our access to services and other such and potentials of the country's inhabitants to use the flight. We need a vision of the future and a link in the transportation systems. The flight has to be done by the road system, public transportation, and this needs to be opened. It also has work to do, and it's already the sea, that people can come here to the country and take advantage of flights, public transportation, and then the private car all together, and that it's accessible and not difficult to find out about that information. But I've heard of many people that it's not accessible enough, so we need to make some improvements. I also found what was presented earlier in the language of the day interesting. paritaprevir The northern Njáll of Trausti Friðbertsson said that once the landing site at Cape Hornfjordur was defined as the International Airport. What steps should we take? Is it reasonable for us to stress that he comes in first? I know there's an interest in that landing site in that area. What should be our priorities? To make such decisions, we need more information and research, we need to know more about the places, but we now have much more demands and especially the security issues. It is the heavens and the sea that were once in the light of changing circumstances and conditions in the world. It has also been mentioned that snow and so forth are expensive. Then I can imagine it's very snowy on the Cape of Hornfjord, and it should be less expensive at snowstorm there. Nevertheless, all equipment needs to be available. This also comes into the business. I learned that when I was on a trip to the Greenland Parliament, people are very dependent on flights to get around and have almost nothing but to rely on flights. There are Icelanders in charge of cleaning airports. We have knowledge of land and skills here, and here is a very powerful company where services run in Greenland. So we have the skills, but we need to be able to finance and follow through. It is not enough to build up, set up landing sites, set up the manpower needed, and take care of the operation. I suggest we focus on what we have now. We need to defend it, build it up, and build it around. But I'm not saying that we should throw this idea out of the table, which has been a big interest in this case, not just on the northwest corner, though it was the greatest interest there. That's normal. The members of this district, led by the candidates, have repeatedly submitted this matter, up to five times, to me. So all the progress, all the progressive steps we take in transportation, is for our advantage, and surely we are interested in taking a firm, decisive step toward the earth. We add to the quality of life, improve our prospects, and improve our career, which is the basis for all the well - being in this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u92	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by thanking our first carrier, please. paritaprevir Páll, the son of Jónsson, won for this motion which has come to pass again. In my mind, after today's discussion, it's primarily a safety issue that I think we have to take care of and be aware of. I'm pretty sure that will end with Alexander's airport becoming the final airport, if you're right, as noted earlier in the question. paritaprevir Of the Njáll of Trausti, the son of Friðbertsson, the son of Friðerbert, that all the laws of goodness are being increased, and the testimonies of ESA. We better hold on to this matter and make sure it gets there. I can well agree with what also came to the point that we may need to work on a minister's standard, and it will return to the council in April, May, instead of early January, next year. I think it's important that we keep doing this, because this airport, I have to admit, being a Akureyri, is a very geographical place. I have to admit it's just true, that's why we have to keep doing this. On the other hand, there is much talk that flights will be defined as public transportation. I've been thinking about whether it's time to take this step a little further, take it into the discussion whether or not it's right to reduce the cut down of the transportation to land, which I understand is a substantial amount of money, and examine that direction, seen from all Scottish, Belgian, and Swiss routes, if it can just be used on every plane ticket, pay off. Then you might think that some radius from some point of view is the most important thing. I think we should hold on to our proposal, and I really hope she gets a walk.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u93	V.E.G. President. I would like to come up here again to thank you for the discussion that has been made after I gave this talk. The discussion has been very objective and in the spirit of serving the whole country, which is one of our main conferences in the Middle East. We have a policy that goes by the name of the country, and I feel that the debate that has developed around this case is that the members of Congress are looking into the whole country. A member of the U.S. Senate was driving me to the point where he thought we were starting to be such a subject for the council at this time, and it's a good thing. I wish it would continue. It is far more beneficial for the country and for the people that we can be perturbing, for building up, and for our better country. What has been presented in those talks has been a great school for me to listen to. Almost every speech is something I've turned on. I'm no expert on flying issues, that's just the way it is. But I'm very interested in preparing transportation, which is one of our biggest concerns. That's where the flight is, not just road transport. This suggestion is not a matter of priorities. It was noted that it was not earlier that something else would come first before going into it. It is not my mind, when I make this case, that it should come before any other. We live under the fact that there are 2.5 million tourists here each year - this year they will be 2.5 million, have already been 2.3 million. There must be more security in flight, since all these tourists come flying and there are problems. In fact, it is amazing how successful the flight routes have been to meet this problem, even though often we have little luxury. It's been reported in talks. Hv. Our deputy member of the Central Party, Jón Þór Þorvaldsson, has held talks on security and asked the secretary of transportation to see if there is any plan for improvement in the security issues. There hasn't been much answers. As shown in the talk "Wicked. " paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson earlier, we need a flight date. This, in fact, was mentioned in another discourse, which was just past the point. paritaprevir Þórunn time, Egilsdóttir, the secretary of transportation, is working to provide a flight policy. This is a cause for joy and joy. In view of the fact that there is such an increase in air transport because of these many tourists - we Icelanders are also flying out and south - we need to seal this safety network. In fact, I was told that we were also talking about carbon tracks and so on. If the safety issues were such that one extra airport would be fine, or two or more, during the international flight would need less fuel. In order to return to foreign airports, motors that come from specific locations often have to carry fuel. The amount of fuel would not have to be the same if the backup airports and security were in better shape. I'm not going to say much more about this for a while, but it's obvious that there's a good and perfunctory discussion next. It has been observed that the case has been delivered four to five times before, and has, I think, never had this discussion that it receives today. That's how things develop over time. Patience is virtue. Thank you so much for this discussion. There was one thing I wanted to come in on, that even came. magazines in the public talk. paritaprevir Reservoir, Njáll of Friðbertsson, i.e. that rural areas in the northwestern country gather and take up a policy in airports. I thought it was a good point, and it would follow up on this case better if it was done. To say that, I'm going to thank you very much for the discussion, and hopefully I'll have a success.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u94	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a synopsis of resources and resource costs. Besides, the point is right here. The council of Árnadóttir Kolbrún, Árnnad, Bergþór Ólason, Birgir the son of Þórarinsson, Gunnar the son of Sveinsson, Sigmundur the son of Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson, and Þorsteinn the Sæmundsson of Sedmund. Suggested sound: The General concluded to hide finance and economic ministers in order to appoint a team of workers as: 1st gives recommendations on whether to collect resource use fees and what resources to use, 2. Suggest a procedure for the stress of resource costs that could cover all resources and account for the costs and defects of different methods, 3. sum up information on how resource use will be used in neighboring countries. The Outfit shall render the Minister no later than February 1, 2019.156. According to one report, this arrangement was previously proposed to the 146th and 147th legislators'Council, No. 536 and No. Sixty-one, off course. paritaprevir Gunnar Sveinsson, son of Sveinns, but he didn't get his money, so he's remanded here. This proposal suggests that financial and economic secretarys hide the group of workers to see if the resource use fees should be collected and of the resources to be used. The work force is also suggested to propose a procedure for the pressures of resource costs and to account for the costs and defects of different methods. Then, in neighboring countries, especially in the North countries, there will be collections of information on how to donate. Transporters believe properly that financial and economic ministers will be assigned to appoint the group, since there is not already a source of resources available, and they can fall to more than one department and institutions. At the same time, the issue is extensive and urgent as well as it has been discussed for years, so it is reasonable that financial and economic ministers govern the work on these issues. It has long been hoped that the resources of the country will yield economic gain in one way or another. Over the years, government companies have paid interest in government funds, and it is sufficient to mention land activation. Resources commonly referred to as national resources can come from various sources. There are resources in the sea, in the air, or on land. It is known that collecting is a fishing fee in the fishing grounds under the rules for fishing, No. 74/2012, and there are some conflicts over its pressures, even though there are debates about how high they should be. Transporters do not believe that resource costs are imposed on just one sector. Therefore, it is important to develop a whole range of policies. The use of resources will have an impact on the environment, and it is urgent to ensure that resources will be used in a reasonable and profitable way. Transporters also want to remind you that there have been ideas about the establishment of a stable fund, the model of the Norwegian oil fund, where money from state resources would run all or part into such funds. In June 1998, a richest committee, which was found at the General Assembly, wrote an opinion for the Ministry of Presidency, published in 2000. Part of its work was to deal with charge of resources for their research and to promote their protection and sustainable use, and to ensure that the yield of common resources would be legitimate for those with interest. The Commission concluded that it considered payment of the use of natural resources to be supported by the following evidence: first, to depend on the costs of research and control of resource use. Second, to ensure a visible share in the more advanced resources we call resource uses, which are created and third, these are so-called correctable taxes and improvements, so-called green taxes, to ensure the practical use of the resources. The resources specified by the Committee in its opinion were energy sources in Iceland and resources at or below the seabed, hydropower, geity and mines, electromagnetic pulses for communications and other environmental quality. I'd like to remind you that a few days ago, I made a recommendation for another council proposal related to it and actually comes ahead of it, so it's fixed. It's about resource analysis, it's about what's a resource and what's not a resource. They are related in a way that allows this to be a continuation of it. After this discussion, I suggest that the case be referred to. The Economic and Business Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u95	V.E.G. President. First, I'd like to thank our first member of the Middle Class, please. paritaprevir Páll Jónson's Jónsson for this story. As noted in his case, this suggestion is directly followed by another motion that has to deal with the definition of resources. We believe that there is an important step that needs to be taken together with the previous proposals, where the resource rights are recognized today. I specifically agree that it is time for us to define Iceland's resources. I also think it's very important that not only is it mentioned that one sector will be spent on one sector, more. To complete it, it is also stated that there will be a whole-scale policy in the seminary, the proposal that is now proposed in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u96	Mr. President. There is good reason to agree. paritaprevir The Sigurður of Páll Jónsson's son over the topic of discussion, and I'm going to try to keep it going. Many are the resources of the country and are involved in the case, however. A senator mentioned earlier, discussing the analysis of resources and the fact that there are now dozens of them. Of course, in some cases it is obvious what a resource is, such as Iceland's aquifers, but another thing is farfetched, like the resource pure air. It could be controversial whether clean air is a resource or not. Anyway. Hv. paritaprevir Sigurður Páll Jónsson, along with others, has put in a bill. The members of the Central Party on the Assessment of Resources should be welcomed. This is being measured, as mentioned, but later here there is a synoptic proposal that primarily deals with resource costs and how to answer certain questions. Mr. President. There are many resources that are obviously public or national property, as we say with the fish. Other people are obviously not national property, let's tell package like dolls or dolls, and there's an opinion like clovens in Brefjörður where the question is within the Internet, whether it can be considered to belong to that landowners, although they cannot use that resource or whether it belongs to the community and owner, at the same time, to enjoy the resources obtained from that resource. With regard to the political objective, it is quite clear that at the General Assembly, there is some agreement that the nation or the public enjoys the products of resources. That in itself may be an improvement from what was some decades ago. Then we come to the controversial resource expenditures, which tell us how they are collected and what the criteria are. What amount of money do we end up taking, in percentages or in any other way, and what resources are under it? But I'm not going to talk about it. The case is likely to take place, but I'm going to swerve the matter a little on a broad basis for thinking of the members of the council. It's a public interest in resource use that's not simple. This is not about a simple picture, such as collecting resources from fish coming up from the sea. We can, for example. taking cheap energy in Iceland, taking heat, warming. The fact is, the Icelanders pay some of the lowest house- warm fees to be found. There's a lot of savings, and it can be said that there's a set resource charge to which everyone falls, which is in the form of cheap energy. It can also be viewed as a great public rights in Iceland, if we think of curfews and quality of life, ensures access to a particular resource, and there is a kind of resource charge in disguise. This is not outback, it's simply an attempt to show that people's interests in terms of their resources are not limited to direct resource expenditures. Nevertheless, there is a general willingness to collect resources and a substantial amount of money. We can imagine that it would be billions of dollars a year if it is stretched out over the fish, such as. Then the question is what to do with the money. Let's start with that as a boy. A driver mentioned, including the Committee on Resources since the year 2000, that there were some ideas, including some. About green taxes, research, stuff like that. More ideas can be waved. I'll mention a single national fund, or what we'll call him, who gets his income from the resource costs and makes a chance to pay our debt to the future, i.e. is to strengthen the infrastructure of the country. After the collapse of the decades, we all know, in the broadest sense of that word, and it is time to make a major effort beyond what the council does at any given time, i.e. budgets, etc. We can also imagine looking forward to the future, and a part of that process is moving toward a new creation. You can think of another kind of fund that we can call a natural disaster fund, where expenses, resource bills, enter the banks, and use it to cope with major events, either earthquakes or what is more common, volcanic eruptions, or big storms or what they may be. Furthermore, something related to climate change, not some less emissions measures, but that it is used to adapt the country to the inevitable consequences of climate change, regardless of the decline in emissions. It would also be a kind of fund that would be designed for the future. We'd be using it to adapt to climate change. Another idea would be a stability fund with very undefined goals. It could be used in a variety, a general building fund in something or something, even culture, and so on. So it's just enough to be taken, and hopefully they'll have to be taken care of all the way, completely to the opinion of a working group or an expert group, and to suggest that there are laws that will be accepted, discussed, and supplied. Finally, this is reflected on one of the major issues in Iceland's Constitution, i.e. a directive in the constitution, which is, as it has been, described in a more precise way than has ever been. This helps us to see that this interpretation proposal once again emphasizes that the debate and legislation of resource resources and resource costs are necessary in the 21st century.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u97	V.E.G. President. I just wanted to come up here and thank you. paritaprevir Ari Guðmundsson for his speech and a part of this case. Hv. A senator is a great scholar and a good listener. I would decide that he was talking about the lack of prices, and that's the truth of the day. I'd like to point out to the senator that in a very difficult paper with the proposal I made the other day, on a resource analysis, it is just about that the problem needs a great deal of work to determine what a resource is and what is not a resource and what resources you can charge and possibly charge for. Just to be told, I wanted to point this out to the senator. I just wanted to thank him, but I don't have a question. I wanted this to happen.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u98	A respectable president. I'm waiting for the highest. Mr President, I'm sorry that I only drew myself into another room. I had not anticipated the degree of solidarity among the people on this matter and felt that it would not take long to answer. I see reason to welcome the discussion and the positiveities it has presented during the discussion, including from the last speaker who brought in a number of excellent, perfunctory points that are natural to consider with the continued progress of the case. As noted in these issues, there are various aspects of life. The resources of the country, which are certainly very large, can be used in a different practical way for the nation. Most important, it is to ensure that a certain amount of equality is being taken care of, for it has now become an excellent setting for the use of the marine resources. Then it is only natural to follow up by evaluating the resource and how it is best to take a certain amount of money. As for the fishing route, it is worth considering. Such a resource is not widely used in a practical way. In fact, it is an absolute exception to the provision of a fish resource as effectively for society as in Iceland. Even in our so - called control countries, the fishing route is a means of government strength. There, the taxpayers do not receive a specific price of the resource use. Rather, they contribute funds to make use of it. In fact, just look at Norway; as that land is now powerful in the seafaring field, the taxpayers pay the taxpayers with the production. The last time I heard the figures - the president must excuse, a few years ago, nothing too many - I understand that he was regularly paid $19,000 with each of his tons. It is not necessarily possible that the use of that resource, rather than that of others, will yield direct profits and will not have to come to see the benefit of it. Fortunately, Iceland and I have had good fortune to use that resource in a practical way and, in fact, some others as well. You're right. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson mentioned earlier that the benefits can be accomplished in various ways. Hv. A senator mentioned the use of energy and low energy prices in Iceland. There is one way to return the benefits of having this important resource to the public and perhaps another way out of the sea road with a special currency there. There is reason to consider this when you find the best methods for the public to gain the most benefit from these so - called common resources. This is also a very timely proposal, since there is now a provision of a so - called resource directive in connection with the review of the Constitution. It has been during the day of the discussion, as if they had been allowed to work ahead of time, that it is a turning subject. It is difficult to define resources and to find the best way to use them with the maximum benefit. In fact, I don't think there's too much stories to say that there are questions that don't go to that job. The bill we're discussing here will hopefully be able to access work on a review of the Constitution and when assessing how language will be best used in the earlier resource directive. I think we're discussing this at exactly the right time. It can also be associated with the current plans for the creation of a so-called national fund, or a resource fund of another name, as it is assumed that the products of resource use will fit into a special fund, which will be used in a certain way. Hv. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson mentioned that there are some ideas on how such funds could be used. However, in terms of the fund and the ideas that have been mentioned as his arrangement, not in this discussion, but in general on the part of the government, I want the story to be followed by the opinion that it is reasonable to place much money in a special fund while the government is paying off debt. If such a fund were to grow far lower in interest than the interest of debts that might otherwise be paid up, that is not a reasonable provision from the State. But when the State has become in debt or what is next, it is desirable to have a reserve that can be taken care of. But there are also very clear rules on how to handle such funds when assigned from it and very important in my opinion that these basically apply to the same rules as the budget. We have seen examples of government surging past the council. After being formed, even with a specific role in mind, governments were tempted to make use of funds for other things. I mention the latest example; a fund that was spoken of as a daily disaster fund, established a few years ago and was meant to react specifically to disasters, natural disasters, or damage that would be for unforeseeable reasons; but then the current government suddenly took up a few years after having allowed money to be passed, to go to this fund, and take it off if I remember four billion dollars to use for road gains. It happened that it was right before the county election, whether it was completely coincidence or not, but it was done by the council. If we are going to start collecting money that our community is getting out on resource use, it is important to keep these two things in mind, or three things in practice: first, what I talked about initially about reaching the maximum benefit of using the resources, and there are different methods that may apply in each case. Second, that the debt of the State is not adverse. Third, sowing and assigning of funds will be the custody of the legislature, the custody of the Generalist. To say that again, I thank you for this proposal and good discussion about it and hear the discussion here today that there is reason to be optimistic about the possibility of doing well with this big, complex project.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u99	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a bill to correct a law on rights and duties of the officers of the state, No. 70/1996, with subsequent changes, involved in increasing working age. Transporters, along with the people here, are a reason. Councilmen Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir, Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunulsson, Gunnar Páll Sveinsson, Jónsson, Birgir Þórarinsson, and Bergþór Ólason. The bill in itself is very short and simple. 1st par. It reads: ▪ The following changes will occur in 33 C.E. The law: a. Instead of the words at 1 mg of age and 1st. arrives: 73 years old. b. Instead of the words at the age of ▪70, at 2 mg. arrives: 73 years of age Two. says: "Instead of the words at 2 mg of age, ▪ 70 years of age. 43. g. The law comes: 73 years old. In the 3rd. it is recommended that the law be obtained at once. This bill was brought here earlier, at the 148th legislature, then went to the committee, but it was not granted. The Icelandic people are well - known for their age. It's about time now. 45,000 people in Iceland who are in their old age and are growing rapidly. Because we are living longer, we too are faster on average and continue to maintain our skills and abilities beyond our age. It is so in current law No. 70/1996, about the rights and duties of public employees, to public employees, to appointed officials as well as to others, are obliged to retire for the next month after they reach 70 years of age. As we know, we have nothing of our own to say how the private sector will benefit its human resources. Of course, the age of aging is about 67 years, and many stop, but many also continue, and there is in itself a agreement between the employee and the employer. But in the state, it's legal for a man to resign from his 70s. As we noted earlier that we are getting older and older, we are actually wasting talents and valuables that are in the minds of government employees, many of whom have a long career age, and many of them are also with a special education that may not be very widely available and could be used if they were to work longer. To make it clear, the matter is that men may work until they are 73 years old, but they don't. Of course, anyone who chooses to retire is free to retire earlier. As far as they know, there are a lot of people in this group, i.e. Officials and government officials who have chosen to continue their jobs after their 70's. In such cases, a contract has often been made with the individual. I can mention, for example, a university professor. When they turn 70 and drop their jobs with knowledge and experience, they are offered a job as a contractor, Mr. President. They're sent out of their offices, made up of contractors. It seems that the current government has arranged for the same people to earn only about 100 thousand dollars without being affected. It is thus tried to choke it when people want to earn some extra ability, stay on their toes, take full part in society as they have done for decades, are shocked by the way the State does. That, Mr. President, is a waste we cannot afford, I've mentioned, for example, did it before perhaps, that, for example. as in the case of a university teacher, many of whom are very splicing and smart about 70 years of age, it is in themselves that if they choose, they are not enabled, if they have a mind to work longer so that they can use their knowledge for us. I also mentioned earlier men with special education or education that doesn't exist at all, I could e.g. mention a group such as nature scientists, who have a very specialized education and who are not very large if we take it that way, and who have natural knowledge and experience that exist only through their research and work for decades. These men and women are also sending home 70 years of full action, or making them contractors so that they can earn 100,000 bucks without having to suffer. This is consistent with what the Central Party has also proposed, i.e. That industry doesn't spoil pension income. I must say, Mr. President, I am amazed that this case will not attract more attention from members of Congress than there are so few here in the hall now. I expected there to be a lively discussion about this matter because of the importance of it. This is one of the issues planned by the Middle Class, so it's hardly possible for you to say it out of this public office, to move as far as seniors are concerned, as they are as we know a wide variety of people with many needs, and to give a wide variety of emphasis to that group, this 45,000 population that is rapidly increasing. And I can't let it happen that as soon as we fix this, Mr. President, I'll call this correction, as soon as we correct this error, the wrong thing to send an adult home when it's 70 years old, we'll do a lot more work. We work at maintaining social activity, that they are not the soles of men, and when I say men, I am, of course, talking about men and women as before, that they are not content to socialize, that human health is better, because it is, of course, proof that humans will keep their health better if they have the opportunity to have something more important ahead of life. In all of this, therefore, it is good. You cannot point out, at least not to my opinion, and to those of this case, but to any limit that this case has a clear way through the council and will finally be paid here at the council. As I mentioned earlier, this case had its success during the last assembly that it had to do with failure. The Economic and Business Committee, which is a very active chairman, hard worker, and interested person, but despite his zeal and interest, the matter could be settled only to the Committee. I'm hoping it now with the second performance of this case that there will be more progress than there was then. Now I still remind you, though I'm afraid of it, that last year, the Central Party proposed to the 2nd. The financial value of employment was not a disgrace to pension income income. I think the Central Party is going to add to the 2nd. Money this fall. All of this work together, as mentioned earlier, to make humans more active in life, more and more participants. This has been observed, e.g. in the case of the senior National Association, the fine woman said at a meeting where I was: "Women don't run out on their last day of sales, even though a year is spent in the rest of her life. That's absolutely right. Not taking advantage of the knowledge and experience that this group has is unworked. Let's see that this is probably the group of employees who are the only surrogate, if I may use that word, Mr. President, for work. They are people who come out of the world with young children, so that the absence of their jobs is very low while their health remains healthy. And more conscientious people are difficult to find, this older generation that has naturally helped to make this society what it is today. Many among this group, e.g. Official employees and officials have served as pioneers in their public service. Therefore, I cannot repeat it often enough that we must, we must use this great experience, this vast knowledge of this group, for our good, and for our society's good. So, Mr. President, I would like to finish my case by saying that I still want men to be important - and I thank the few members of the council who are present here for this discussion - in order to end the matter at this council and remain before Christmas so that this change can take effect on the first, e.g. 1st January 2019 There's nothing to wait for. These groups are growing. We are not talking about this group holding younger people back from reaching out, not at all, but primarily taking advantage of the knowledge and experience they have, to our advantage.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u100	Mr. President. I think I will and will. 1st manifester, The Þorsteinn Sæmundsson, has had a place to speak in March. when this bill was first moved. In itself, I have not changed my view of it. I think the bill's goal is good and sensible. Again, I'm stuck in the number 73 years and what. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's stone is familiar with that observation. I would have thought right, since we're doing this, taking a little bigger steps and raising my retirement age for 75 years. Happily, when it comes to the group of people who are now known as older citizens, we face a changed social situation. Much of the people coming to retirement age are full of hard work and want to continue to work. The possibility closes when it comes to government jobs. It is absurd in my mind and evidence that we do not use the knowledge available in society in the way that we need to, by throwing it out. Again, I ask why. A senator why he's at least did not use the summer and ponder over what I asked him that in March.: Why 73 and not 75 years? Wouldn't that have been better? Then maybe he could have invited me to be an importer on this excellent bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u101	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator is eager to know the question and the interest he shows in the matter. I recall that last March, I pointed out that according to the information available, older citizens are usually active in a workforce until the age of 73, which only lowers the schedule. It is proper to state that the committee, which we are referring to, should be mentioned. A candidate of both sat in his own time, reviewing the social security system, could be discussed with an increase in pensional age in some step up to the 80th. The transporters in this bill simply considered it wise to take that step. However, I can say for myself private and personally that if anything. A senator, also president of the Economic and Business Committee, would resolve his committee with a change that would be replaced by 75 years of age, I would not oppose it. On the other hand, we thought that it might be taken in two steps so that we could gain some experience in how this would go on over the three years, and we could turn it into 75 years if we thought it was true. But as I said before, in itself I think it is very necessary to plan the proposal of our middle-class members that professional income will not detract the pension income from the 2nd. Money, and if anything, I'd love it. A senator would join us in that regard when the time comes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u102	Mr. President. We're living in a financial and business committee so well, I think we're well designed, including Chairman of the Middle Party, what? paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson. I suppose he'll follow through pretty well. You're right next door. A senator said we were together on the Social Security Review Committee. Not all the suggestions could be made, unfortunately, but it remains that we have moved the right to postpone a pensioning age of 80. We also moved it down to 65 years, so the flexibility is there. You can start taking half of your pension and continue working half. We are also faced with the need for a general discussion of increasing the age of retirement. As the years pass, they become more difficult and need to be taken in larger steps. We were wondering 24 years. In 24 years, I disagreed with moving my pension to 70 years. I thought it would be too slow and the need to go up to 70 years in 12 years. In fact, I think we should start to wonder if we have and in the next 30 years will have to raise our pension age to 75 years. I think that's the fact. You can see that life is always getting longer, and your health is better. Those born today can hope that their lives may be 110 years. Each person sees that much of his life is out of the market. We need to build up the system and start the discussion and make decisions today that are relatively simple but that can be painful after 10 to 15 years. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u103	V.E.G. President. I know a lot about what we're doing. The senator discussed in the fine commission, which was highly organized, as a financial and business committee, to bring the pension to 70 years. I agree with what. A senator says that as we pull it any longer, it becomes more difficult. I think I'll be right to have read very recently that around 2020 there will be about 20% of the nation's age of age, 70 years or older, and in 2030 about one quarter of the nation's population. It's telling itself completely, like a cot. A senator said just before, that if we don't take the discussion seriously and take certain steps to raise that age, if we, for example, do we. For 10 years to get started will be an extremely difficult step to take. I agree with what. A senator on this matter. We need to take the discussion, we need to take it seriously, and we need to have the courage to take the steps the committee suggested at the time for it to be taken. I'm not here to tell you if I really agree with you. A senator to do so over 12 years, that would have to happen on the basis of calculations as prior to, i.e. how that case would come out. I am absolutely certain that we will go through with our 70 - year pension. We simply do not receive anything of it, for, fortunately, as is the focus of the present discussion, the nation is growing old and maintaining health according to the life that is commendable.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u104	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his record on this matter. Truth is, I can't even remember whether I participated in discussions about it last time. I used to be in this symposium at that assembly a lot, and I might well be confusing things. I find the suggestion of a lot of attention, and the thought is very good behind it. I wanted to have a place to say. A senator's tone is similar to that of an anti-yield. As a professional historian, I enjoy looking back in time and wondering why things were happening, in this case, in my pension and pension. At that time, the circumstances that changed completely, at least for some, in the sense of deserved rest after a long career period, are that they have the right to take it easy. Of course, that's how it is with many yet, but there are, like cot. In his history, there were many more who choose to continue in their ministry. I wanted to ask you what. A senator as to whether it's not quite clear that this is a possibility, that there is in no way that a person must work until that age. As I say, some prefer to work longer, others have to, because of hard work and long working years in them, simply because they have to stop. Perhaps I'll come into it better after I get a better explanation for it. A senator with what I suspect, i.e. that people have chosen, that the flexibility should be emphasized as long as possible. A senator spoke here before what he could do. paritaprevir Óli Kárason Kámsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u105	V.E.G. President. Now I don't remember either. A senator participated in this discussion in spring, but he is equally welcome in it today. The answer was quite clearA. Kárason We've already said that the pension age is flexible, i.e. You can start taking the pension when you're 65, you can delay it until you're 80. But what we're moving now - I can answer right away: Yes, this is an option, not a charge. According to the bill, as I said at the beginning of my speech, it's about the privilege and not the possession. Those who want and choose can stop 65 years of age and take a pension, as we have seen. This is only to give those who choose and have the desire to continue their work with the government until the age of 73. I had thought about this and talked about it in my category for a very long time before we took off with it. I think it was exactly this point that I mentioned in my talk that forced me to say: We have to do this. That's exactly what I said to the highest. Just before, a president of the university who is 70 years old loses his office and is making contractors. Laws and natural scientists, so I'm just saying two examples, historians with superior knowledge, superior experience, complete commodities, are being sent to the retirement of 70 years. And if they have the mind to continue, they are made contractors. I find that to be shameful. We should not treat our loyal ones that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u106	A respectable president. I can heartbreakingly say the last words. Senator. That's why I want to talk to you. A senator on the number listed in the bill. It was only discussed in an anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti. paritaprevir Óli Kárason Kármson even mentioned 75. It's not just for drumming, it's because I really wonder if we should have upper boundaries, if they shouldn't just be that if people are ideal, they can work no matter how many years they've lived. I realize that, or I think I know there's been a step here and maybe I wanted to go for a second. A senator would come in a little bit. What I've heard from a talk. A senator suggests that he is not thinking of any ultimate upper limit, but he is very ready to examine it. I've always seen a little Spanish that people who want to win, and even in the position that the employer wants to keep the person working can't because of a law we've set that if certain talk on paper is nearly a certain size, it can't be done anymore. I've imagined a system in which every man can work as hard as he can, and that he can work for as long as he's supposed to do a good job. But having a flexibility, that people who are at a certain age can choose to shrink, take some of their pensions, or go back to their pensions, etc., also make me feel extremely important.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u107	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this. That was a very good answer, and a lot of interesting observations were made. In other words, this bill is a type of fruit or product of the work being done on a committee for a review of the social security system. As we have seen, this flexibility came out of that work, but the flexibility in itself is of little value if you are forced to quit work 70 years ago. In itself, it is empty to say: The age of aging is up to 80. I'm not gonna talk about if you're not allowed to earn more than 100,000 bucks, if you're 70, before the state starts to cut you down, instead of urging you to work more and pick your taxes, which, of course, are paying you. I agree with that. A senator, of course, may be the first step in building more flexibility into the system. I repeat this with 73 years, they may have been a combination of caution and possibly conservativeness, but it was always in the minds of people that these dates could increase as the experience was illustrated by how this would turn out. Then I say again 75 years. Yes, it is very, very big. It can also be thought that this is true while men are standing in both legs. But then maybe we'd be into what I said we shouldn't do, i.e. to prevent young people from coming into contact with them, etc. So we thought it, as you say, was a good first step, just so I made it clear. We planned to let the experience determine whether it was long enough or whether we continued. We may not want to strain the bow to the point of taking it back, there were reasons.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u108	A respectable president. First of all, I come up here to state my support for this matter. It was also suggested last year, and then it went to sleep. The Economic and Business Committee, after 1. In fact, I was on that committee for that very time, although I have now gone over to what? General and Education Committee. I strongly agree with the criteria for this bill, and in fact, I agree with those who ask why there is a restriction to begin with. In fact, the only explanation I can imagine and accept is that the salary of a state worker is in many ways different from others, and their rights and duties are different from that of a general labour market, there are special laws about them, etc., so maybe this may need to be something special, but I don't think it's a very strong argument. I can see that if this was to be taken away completely, at least some work would need to consider how to change other legislation accordingly. I agree with those who ask why this age is chosen, 73. But I heard an answer. At least I don't see a reason to ask any further about it. According to this, I myself would be unsatisfiedly supporting going up to 75 and even higher, since I do not know the reason to take such a small step. However, I also wanted to come up here to explain the discussion and the discussion. The Economic and Business Committee for the Last Parliament because I think it can be useful when it goes back to the council. Sadly, it never got out of that committee, but there were guests. There were three reports, more specifically from the BSRB, the National Association of senior citizens and Iceland's Business Committee. The preceding two reviews declared a clear support for the matter. BSRB also supported the case, but he mentioned that the coalition had been represented by a committee who had proposed a 75 - year retirement period. It was interesting to me and gives evidence to my conviction that it is absolutely safe to go up to 75 at least, if not more. Hv. In his speech, the station official mentioned that he wished that the matter would just be taken over very quickly and as long as I share their ambitions with them. However, a senator's handling of simple matters, which I think must be of rapid support, raised a few questions on the committee that I would like to explain here. Similarly, I rejoice that the matter is being discussed here so early because I guess they can be taken into account early on the committee and resolved as soon as possible. What was mentioned in the mouth. The financial and business committee at its time, whatever I found most interesting, is that you earn no more pension rights if you stop working 70 years of age, all pension funds stop building rights at 70 years of age. This surprised some members of the committee. Then it was pointed out that in order to handle the gathering of rights, two laws would need to be changed. No more were mentioned, perhaps more, but two were at least named by a guest who appeared before the committee. On the other hand, there was a law on the Penitentiary of the State and the Pension Insurance Act. In the latter, in a brief review, it seems to me that there's a 4. mg. 1st par. which would have to be changed. Then there's another question: Do we need to be completely consistent between the law? Unfortunately, the committee did not finish the discussion, so they did not return a committee party, and these comments were not written, unfortunately, and therefore are not part of the case at the beginning of the discussion today, but this was presented in a committee at the time, and I thought it appropriate to make an account of the subject for the benefit. I sure hope there's a quick hearing on the committee and it's going to be approved here, of course, before the New Year's but if not then, at least in spring.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u109	V.E.G. President. I wouldn't say I'm opposed to this bill, but I don't particularly like it. However, I'm fairly willing to allow men to work longer. Then I don't really want to tie it to 73. It is not enough to allow it, but the employer must also be interested in extending it. Government workers have vast rights beyond any other employee in the country. You can't even reveal yourself to people who don't do very well, not even special employees. I have reason to believe that many executives in these institutions are simply waiting for men to be 70 years old. I hate to say this, but I know it. I would be much more interested in not tying this for some time. Rather, I'd let the officers continue to negotiate with the employees they believe have much to offer, and then it wouldn't be necessary to have it tied to age. The manager spoke extensively of university teachers and even lawyers after 70 years of age who had much to offer. I think that's an exception, unfortunately. I think they're kind of out - of - date by 70, though full - time. Then, of course, humans can do something else. This does not necessarily mean that you have to do the same work forever, and I don't think it's good to be in the same job forever, especially public employees who often have considerable authority.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u110	A lot of senators.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u111	Though not for a very long time, I would never have thought of going to a young man to the council. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I don't think they're supposed to be long at the council. It has a peak of 12 years in mind. I think people get a little bit discouraged, I don't talk about teaching. Hv. A senator spoke of a university teacher who had much to offer. Of course, there are many who have something to offer while they are 70 years old and who would miss if they left the job. Then I would feel that I should be authorized to do some kind of employment contract with the person without his enjoying all the rights of public employees, only doing so. I'm not sure about the benefits of having this in the way this is suggested, which is, of course, just a warrant, but it's the employee who controls it according to this bill if I get it right. I think this should be not just the employee's business but the agency's business as such. I think the committee has to do better with this, and even find some surface where men who are older are interested in working and being able to do it, and the employer wants to do it and thinks he or she will benefit from it. There's some way to make sure that a recruitment relationship can last longer, and I don't really want to tie it up to 73 years. We will not have to tie it to an age, or we may be able to bind it to 100 years. What I'm thinking about is to take a closer look because, as I say, I'm kind of at the point where people can be longer than I think it's more complicated than just putting the rules in. I just wanted to get in there.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u112	V.E.G. President. I don't think I'll try to teach you why. I'm not capable of doing that, but because of the nature of the law. A senator said that it was very convenient to reveal to the public employees, both through experience and by other means, that there might be some misunderstanding. Many of the things that may have happened to humans regarding the work of public employees are being carried out on the law of No. 70/1996 has never been exemplary, as you say. We were talking about a university teacher who finished his 70's. Humans are appointed by law No. 70/1996 and if I recall correctly, it is assumed that positions can be advertised every five years, so that if you wait too long for some fats to go through their ages and from their 60s, there's a very good example because positions can be advertised every five years. However, this has never been done, not unless a person has been found guilty in some way or has been suspected of being guilty of wrongdoing, and the situation has been advertised. I just want to ask you what. A senator whether he believes that it is possible that the subjects he found there are simply because they have not trusted in the law that is found in the law No. 70/1996, on the rights and duties of the workers of the state. This in itself provides a guide to not only how humans are exposed but also how they can advertise their work every five years.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u113	V.E.G. President. Most employees don't have a five-year contract.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u114	All officers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u115	Yes, but they are the most widely born public employees. True, reports from government officials have been cursed. You only need to look into the court office to see how bad it has been for men. I have long felt that these public rights of public workers should be past in general employment. This is an ordinary labour market in many respects. I think a man should go that way rather than just hire a man for five years. We are not in charge of government officials in general until the end of the five - year - old year, just with government officials, so that's another matter. Based on the 1996 law, there are high standards for confidentiality. I know, and I know, as an official employee for the first five years of my career, that there were men who did not cause the work. They had done nothing wrong, never had been guilty, but they were just bad workers. If they were automatically authorized to 73 or 75 and could decide if they were going to go, I think we need to think about this better. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u116	V.E.G. President. I had a job as an official employee who had, in fact, a. That job with the hands to move men to work, lay down their jobs, and leave them up and count, and I think I can quite say that, that the law letter in law No. 70/1996 is perfectly clear. However, it is a question of whether individual directors of the government, etc. has simply sought help if they have not had enough knowledge of these laws to carry out their letters. However, I would like to make a comment to a word. A senator says that it is not just government officials who are officers. There are also priests, customs guards, police and office managers. I could go on like this. But this is a group, so I just say again: If men had taken over quickly or soon, the authority in the law of No. 70/1996, about advertising jobs every five years, I think we are in a very different atmosphere now than we are now. By this interpretation, an explanation, or the implementation of the law as it has been done, it has, in effect, been put out of the question of advertising office jobs - something that is unnecessary. On the other hand, if men are unable to do their work as public, public employees, I say again: There is a strategy, but perhaps there is a lack of assistance for individual managers, such as. The head office of the Ministry of Economic Affairs to win these cases, natural by the employee's holding up his dignity and all that but to the point of stress on how to resign because it is possible to do so. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u117	V.E.G. President. Yes, the lyrics are clear, and all that, says reason. Senator. But it's not as clear as I think that almost every year, a judgment that a public employee's resignation is illegal, probably a lot of people a year.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u118	That's different.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u119	I don't know about that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u120	Then they haven't followed the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u121	It seems that they are acting in harmony with the law, which makes them even more specific. Anyway, I don't like this five-year rule myself. Of course, leaving a job that may be a good job and just being employed for five years for the next job may make you feel insecure, so after five years, the person may suddenly be out of work. I don't think there's anything wrong with that. I think it's quite normal for men to just be hired. However, if a person's evaluation is not good enough for an employee - he doesn't need to be wrong, he doesn't even have to be very bad, but maybe he or she was disappointed, thought he might have more, etc. - should be able to resign with a reasonable deadline. Somehow, government employees are just protected by all the inconveniences others have to live with for the rest of their lives. I think it's out of date, huh? Senator. It's really good to be in the state's office, and then you can't touch what's left of your career. This may even be extended to 73 or 75. That's not the right way, and I think we should simply have a full reexamination of the law on rights and duties of public employees. It's time to revise the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u122	A respectable president. I don't know if I completely agree with what. paritaprevir The Brynjar of the son of Níelsson on the rights of government officials. But I certainly am something toward the view he expressed here, i.e. it should be easier to give up to government employees than it is now. I know of such cases, and it's a little strange that people can't be dumped that simply don't work. If you ask government employees, they say, "Well, we're on a pretty low salary. They think it's a way to get back. Okay, you can take that discussion and it's a good price. You're welcome to discuss it. I won't talk about it if I do. A senator proposes a bill for changing the law in order for this one or for a Senate decree to obtain someone of the highest order. advisers to use such bills. If there's good enough trouble and she doesn't go too far for my taste, I might imagine I'm a co-sponsor for such a suggestion. On the other hand, I don't see the objection, in a approach or two. Senator, on the rights of state officials. I understand already. One senator noted that it may be possible to have an employee who could not, but could not be fired; now the manager has to accept his 70 - 60's and after receiving this bill to 73 years of age. But I wondered: " What about the opposite? What if it is a good employee whom the manager wants, and the employee wants to continue working? Here the state is doing a little in front of his hands--nothing a bit, just completely--on both sides and taking their freedom to decide for themselves. I don't see the contradiction in the cause as a cause. This was the case with a senator. It's going both ways. As a result, I feel that the bill is not part of the other interesting cause. A senator fights here for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u123	V.E.G. President. I was just growing up a little bit. But regarding this particular bill, I say: I'd be very happy to be authorized to work longer, but not only if the employee wants to, but also the employer. It's not expected here. It's essential that both sides agree with that. In itself, I am very involved in expanding this warrant. I find it very strange that on our 70th birthday, we can't work at all. Just, get out! Why is that? Of course, we should have some time to do this. But it should not be absolute, my knowledge, and the one-sided decision of the employee to work as long as he wishes, at least not as long as the staff's much rights are in the staff law as they are currently. So I'd like to review all of this with the law on the rights and duties of public employees. Do we have to change something else? I agree with having space. Men have come to me in distress. On one occasion, a prison guard did what seemed to be a very good guard. He turned 70. He couldn't be a prison guard anymore. Everyone wanted him, especially the prisoners, but it couldn't be done. That's really ridiculous to me. But I say like what? Senator: I'd like to clear this up, but I don't want that to be the one-sided decision of the employee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u124	A respectable president. I'm going to take this answer as good and true as it is with this connection, i.e. The rights of government employees and these arrangements, that it is difficult to operate government employees, and that these things also apply, i.e. that they have to stop working 70 years. But even if we agree to revise the whole system from scratch, saying that we agree, and even suggest that we agree with it, I wonder if it's the case. A senator would not, however, not be able to support the matter on the basis of one ground that people live longer and can work longer and most important - I would not notice if anyone else mentioned it - make modern advances now possible to do some particular work longer, e.g. At home. People who are still full of spiritual function but may be physically impaired, there is a technology to meet them. Evolution is that it is easier for people to work longer. They argue on their own, provided that we are not going to an overall review, just not to support this matter, although it is not the solution to all the problems. A senator mentioned?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u125	V.E.G. President. Yes, I think I said it at the beginning of my speech that I could be very supportive of this bill. I just said I thought there were other things to consider. I'm very good at expanding this, and I'm allowed to work longer. It's true that you live longer, your health is better, at least physical health. It's very sad to see people send home. His work was kind of his life. So all of a sudden, it's just come home and it's got nothing to do. It will move very quickly from the foot, especially mentally. Why should we do this? I don't know better than men are U.S. Supreme Courts until they are dead in red, while the brain has not been determined. No one can think of taking that job. I can be very supportive. I support my objective, i.e. that there is more time to work longer because circumstances have changed. It's just a fact. How do we get into it? It's like, "I'd rather have had a full review than take one thing out like that." But you never know unless I support it anyway.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u126	A respectable president. I decided to leave quietly, especially after the discussion that took place earlier in objections and in reply to them about the public rights of public employees. You see, many times I have talked about them with considerable disrespect and have acted as if they were some privilege that people receive from government jobs. The fact is, through decades the system developed, paying was lower in the public than in the general labour market. However, to make up for this difference in pay, the rights were greater. There were other pension rights, more job security, etc. This is not something that public employees pulled from their hat and not something that was set up as a privilege. It may be reasoned that it was established to save the public money in pay expenses, that remuneration in the public market would not always be the same as in general because in many cases it would have to increase pay, especially middle and upper management, in line with what was on the general market. There have been various steps to explain the difference between the two sectors of the labour market, the general and the public. We took steps in this room for two years, when the pension rights were eliminated. I was deeply involved in that discussion because it made me feel that we were starting backwards, that we were shrinking our rights before we got paid. I thought that was wrong. No matter what anybody says - and I don't look at anyone sitting in the hall right now, a respectable president - there are times when it sounds like there's no pay difference. It doesn't matter what anybody says about it, it just isn't right. I view this good bill as a good step toward equalizing the rights so that those working in the public market can work longer than the current law can be applied, as is done in the general labour market. In a town private company, if there is a mutual desire, an employee may be employed for as long as the employee wishes to work. You can't do that with government employees. This makes me feel like a step in that direction. That's why I had a word for it. A senator, the 1st transferer of the bill, Þorsteinn Sæmundsson, on whether a head should be some age limit, which I believe is the right way. But I am very happy that this is a step forward. I feel that the administrative body I now belong to owes that opinion of a public employment market. paritaprevir The Brynjar of Níelsson's son called for it, not before my eyes, as I understood the voice. A senator, that we were going to cut out where the government's rights were higher, that this was done so that we might somehow have to get them down. It's not the original in my opinion, it's just the other way around. What is real difference between the ideals of public employees and the general labour market? If it leans on, as I think I know, the government's gonna have to fix it. Then we can level. It's very normal for me to feel that this is all equal, that we have the same rights, the same obligations, the same salary, the same pay categories, the same holiday, the same pension rights, no matter whether we work in the public or in the general labour market. And that we have the same rights to work for as long as we want, as someone wants us to work. We took the step to balance the pension rights. Let us see if there is a problem with balance, as it was well spoken of in a Senate hall when it was done. A respectable president. I support this bill. I think it's a good step, as I came on the counter, but I agree with those who spoke earlier about having to have an overall review. In my mind it is not to see if positions should be advertised every five years, which is certainly nice to look at, not to examine some special fragrance of public employees' rights, but to check the actual differences between the ideal public employees of those who are on the general market. I'm ready for that job.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u127	A respectable president. I don't know why. A senator meant something I said or something that was wrong. paritaprevir Brumes the þm. of Brynjar said. [[Foreground on: No.]] From a senator's speech, I concluded that it was not. Still, I felt right to come up here and say that it is not of any kind of disrespect for public employees or the rights of those I would approve of revising this system. I would assume that these would be the very ones who would oppose the elevations in pay. I don't know how it should go differently because the state simply couldn't hire people, I think, on such a much lower salary without some objection. I just wanted to keep it in order that it wasn't out of disrespect for one thing or anything I suggested. I can see why. In support of his lack of respect for me, a senator nods in the Assembly Hall, but I thought it should be mentioned for the sake of history.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u128	A respectable president. No, you're right next door. Senator I wasn't referring to his words here. I can't think that he was speaking out of some disrespect for public employees, and in fact, I don't feel that anyone has spoken out of particular disrespect for public employees in this discussion. You only have a certain opinion, a different opinion, of these things. I came up in the public address, especially because of my words. paritaprevir Mrs. Níelsson's son, who has returned to the chamber of the assembly, didn't hear my good speech. We have a word about this only in other areas. As I mentioned earlier, I am prepared to review the official law on public employees by reason of reason. paritaprevir The Brynjar of the son of Níelsson, on the other hand, is primarily that equal to the pay difference that exists between the public market and the general market. We've been in the pension business, we have our pay business left.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u129	V.E.G. President. I would like to thank the members of the council who have participated in this discussion and the viewpoints presented in the discussion. I am very happy to hear that point. I am also happy to find that support that I now feel on this bill. I hope he'll make that way through the council. I listened attentively to a talk. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son, and I agree with him that we need a full reexamination of the government law, which is from 1996. But I don't want this case to wait for the overall reexamination because it just so happens that when we do a complete review of some large code of law, we often talk about delays in 15 years. That's exactly what happened to the council today, two of the songs I've only heard of, i.e. about agriculture and forestry I know they've been building, if we can put it that way, for years. That's where we're talking about laws that will do the right thing from 1955 and 1960, if I remember correctly. I would, for example. Don't sue me or be satisfied with the fact that a case like this, a justice case, is held for three, five, seven, eight, nine years after a general review of the law of government employees. I also say what I mentioned in my speech, we in itself are saying a by saying that pensioning age can be flexible from 65 up to 80 years of age. But he can't just go into 80's with government employees because he throws those out 70 years of age. Now that we'd already said A, we have to say B, so that's equal to both sides of the board. Hv. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé spoke here of employees in a general labour market. I've noticed that very abroad, e.g. Older people, if we can put it that way, will do much more for a variety of services and services than we do in Iceland. Yet, it is with delightful exceptions. I have, for example. Note that there are companies here in the construction sector who have employed older industrialists to provide and give advice, as sales advisers in their companies. That's a great example for me. What is more reassuring to a person who has 10 thumbs or 20 toes, such as the one here, and who is going to start performing some project than to be able to do good work in a carpentry or a painter at a purchase that will help you determine what you need? It is in many places that we have this knowledge for people who come out of the lightest time if we can put it that way, which we do not use today. It's that waste I hate so much. Now, I'm not going to have a problem with what I'm going to do. paritaprevir Brunes the Brynjar of Níelsson. I deeply respect his experience as a lawyer and think he's been involved in a lot of things because of what he said, his claim that it was difficult to get rid of a tip or to resign from public employees. But I'd still like to point out that if you say, "Here's a man who's impossible and doesn't fit into this job, but there's nothing wrong with him that's fixed, he's not doing anything wrong, you have three months of staff advice. If three months of staffed authority doesn't figure it out, I don't talk about it if the job is special or demanding, that the person is not suitable for the job might say more about the boss than the one hired, according to my opinion. If you've been in the state's position to move people into jobs, reveal them, etc., I'll say again: There's nothing difficult to resign from a public employee. It is only a matter of doing what is right and in harmony with the laws that apply. The law gives, I can't tell you a nice bed, but space to make it possible for both men to move into a job and resign. The other is another matter that was presented in the matter of the day. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son said that it would be a loss to have to sit down with some men to the age of 73 and-75, who were not good at work. Then I'm going to say again that a case like this is not to be paid for the execution of the law on rights and the duties of public employees has not been anything special. And I'm also going to say that there are some things in the human resources policy of the state that could be made better and that are being done, I know it, that's being done right now. I remember, for example. Since there were plans that I don't know where they are now, to make Iceland's Board of Directors one work, which means, e.g. that someone could become an employee of one Ministry and then move between recruitment, work, stay on the toes, and get diversity in his life's work or work at the time of the government. But this is another matter. This is just a matter of saying that the state as a master or as an employer is progressive and will do its part in order to make the government's work progress successful and interesting. I know there's a lot of work going on with the state to do that. I think if we take it all together, it'll be a great improvement. We corrected that men are not expelled from their jobs 70 years of age, that we adopt an overall review of the government law on public employees, and that the government is doing more and more in developing its employees' working environment, making it more desirable. There's certainly where the pay comes in like what's happened. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé mentioned. I heard why. paritaprevir Brynjar of Níelsson's son want to go back to the position where government officials should live. They are now appointed to be five years old. He said it was so uncertain. We now live in this uncertainty ourselves, not for five years, but for four and sometimes less, if we lose heart. However, many of the officials on this five - year order have a fine salary. This was shown in response to an inquiry directed to the minister of finance for us, and in fact, the vast amount of information there was to be worked out. Because the entire body's salary has, for example, the entire body's pay. I don't think I've ever found a man who was less paid than an entire body member. Then they were asking for the highest salary and the average total pay both in councils and in their institutions, etc. I don't think there's anyone wanting to go back to life's recruitment or to go back to the lifetime order that was in the game. The men were appointed to take an example at random, as well as in the 30's, and only until they were 70 years old. There was nothing to interfere with them in one way or another, no matter how they did, so I just grab one random example and hope I don't get the CDC on me. I am grateful for the support this case provides, and I expect it to be the first step we can take into consideration the serious employment and the work environment of public employees. I agree perfectly with that with what. paritaprevir The Brynjar of the son of Níelsson and others here who have spoken that it is necessary that we make this overall review. But let this matter not wait for her. Let's do it now.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u130	V.E.G. President. The bill I recommend was previously introduced to the 145th legislature by a group of former and present members of four members of Congress. It is now moved back in good consultation, at least to one of the people involved in that bill at the time. This is the bill for the legislation on the change of social law and private societies law, social security travel. The movers are, as well as it says here, okay? Councilmen Árnadóttir Kolbrún Árnnadóttir, Birgir son of Þórarinsson, Gunnar the son of Jónsson, Bergþór Ólason, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, and Sigurdrúnsson. It's an alteration of the social law, No. 2/1995, and change in privacy law, No. 138/1994, with subsequent changes. It says a letter on social security, with permission of the highest. President: ▪ Tultural travel involves misuse of owners and executives of the Society's plans, providing them with protection because of the limited responsibility their owners bear on the commitments of the society. That's how debts due to professional failure are collected into one society, and then when the partner is in business problems, a new business with a new social security number is quickly established. In the old society, there are those commitments that normally do not pay for the failure of the company. In many cases it is a debt to the public, a lack of taxes, and fees, but also commitments to other privates, suppliers, and others, as well as a lack of pay. Madam President. In a 2005 survey, 73% of corporate executives believed that the companies they worked for were affected by social security. So it is a great deal of work on this bill's purpose, to suggest ways of reducing social security and thus try to keep back the tax system for the better of the community. The effectiveness of social networking has been investigated in many parts of the world, including the U.S. correspondent in Australia A study in Australia reported that the number of landmark travel costs 0.133/4.28% of land production. Our land production is, or was in 2016/2017, some 2,600 billion. That means that the amount I am now talking about is between 3.5,7 billion a year. According to the information available that the loss of tens of billions of dollars in each country has been estimated to be due to social security. Studies indicate that the social security index is in the case of failure in the range of 3.5 to 15%. The man standing here is an old collector of state funds and an old trustee of state funds. It's a matter of great importance to me that the expenses that have been paid. Neither the person standing here nor the other members of the Central Party contributes to an increase in tax returns. Also, that was not done with the budget talk last year. None of the suggestions made by the Central Party for an increase in tax returns. In preparation - and now I speak with caution again - that the Central Party brings up emphasis on tax recovery, not on tax returns, but on improving tax returns. In effect, this matter is one factor in setting such a thing up. I'm sure all of us here are familiar with examples of a loud party. In some cases where social security is being practiced, it is logical to believe that you are doing social security in a criminal sense, that you have left behind one company after another, one with the social security number after another without property, and that you have built up debts, especially with the state's funds. We know of the fact that humans may not survive in business only two, three worth taxes. When you start making serious collects, the business starts the following day with a new social security number. This is especially true of some professions. There is much to do, and it is a great deal of work that smells at the Council and that we can at least say that we have worked hard to prevent such conduct. Not even public members are free to be harmed by social security. Despite the fact that public shopping laws are set aside that those selling services should be returned to the state's funds, etc. and we don't owe public fees, and we have other recent examples of a government person who is involved in business which is clearly on social security travel and that's Reykjavíkurborg, who's still making a deal with a company that's been doing the travel service of the disabled and is currently scheduled in the third social security number since that deal came between the city and this company. It is not safe when criminals or persons who have such practices in a way that they are not involved. I repeat and reiterate that this case is not part of increasing the tax burden on companies and individuals. The matter is presented, along with the others that will follow, in order to improve the tax system and to improve the general morals in business. I think it's safe to talk about morality. It says in the report, with permission of the highest power. President: ◯ In pars. 1st and 2s. The bill is proposed to change the social law, No. 2/1995. It suggests that the founders, executives and executives of a partner must not be held in charge within the next three years for two or more bankrupt communities. This will also be the case when founders, executives, or managers have quit their jobs before a society is bankrupt, and this will be run by a so - called undertaker who has the company in bankruptcy. This funeral manager group is well - known and has become quite extensive. It's still saying, with permission of the highest power. President: The relevant conditions for which individuals who are planning to start an enterprise become directors or are hired as managers are required to meet. Sv. 3 mg Section 148. partner- shapes should be made aware of the establishment of partner enterprises in accordance with confirmation that the isolates meet the criteria of 3.g. The law of the law and that management and executives meet the 66rd paragraph. The law. Sv. 150r. The law shall be denied by a member of the council in case its establishment fails to meet the requirements of the law. In between three and four. The bill is then proposed to provide the corresponding changes in the laws on private societies and to be passed on by the legislation on partnerships in Article 1 and 2. 3 mg. 122. g. law on private enterprises is the equivalent of 3 mg. Section 148. the European Court of Auditors, the European Commission and the European Commission; the European Environment Agency; the European Environment Agency; the European Environment Agency; the European Environment Agency; the European Environment Agency; the European Environment Agency; the European Environment Agency; the European Environment Agency; the European Environment Agency; the European Environment Agency; the European Environment Agency; So many were words. The bill seeks to deal with a very real problem. Of course, most people doing business in Iceland are painting honesty. Sadly, however, there are also people and companies who even act in an illegal way and test the longitude of the law, now at the utmost in order to avoid paying dues to society, to avoid commitments to third parties, to private people, or to individuals, etc. This is conduct that we do not have and must not share in maintaining. That's why it's a bill. All of us transporters feel that the monopolitans are expected to step forward to collect in the government funds, as the law expects them to do. We're supposed to live by the laws that apply to it. On the contrary, we should strive when the public fees have been paid to collect them where possible. It was said at one time that if we can put it that way, we would have about $80,000 in the economy. As they heard earlier, I did not have those numbers on rhythms. Rather, my study in other places has revealed the importance of social security. That's a lot of money, all right. We're about 7 billion people. Would it not go far into what we are looking for in the double Rhine Way? You could tell me. There's a lot to do. Therefore, we are not to be tolerated by a bunch of angry men who collect debt and who can do so at times and years after years and seasons without our failure. Similarly, it is natural to realize that men who present and get away with this sort of thing, who leave behind debts in old social security companies and establish new ones, scrutinizing their competitive stand against humans, companies and legislators. We have a recent example. We have an example of a black economy in Iceland, a tax officer in Iceland, which is Airbnb. It has been observed that up to a short period of time, only about 13% of such lodgings were reported. Then, if I remember correctly, we were talking about the renting out of all over the country. We set a law at the General Assembly in 2016, where local affairs were under way. What has happened since then? Some have stopped such activity. Some of the estates that were temporary renting have come to rent long-term, which has definitely helped rent the rent. Some of the property is in the market for sale. That's the way it happens. The head of industry, innovation, and travel minister had the courage to allow that the businessman of Reykjavík would hire eight employees to follow that issue. What hasn't happened yet? Yes, there have been records of the previously unregistered and under government authority. Although I'm not recommending men through the districts with a lot of noise to pursue those who are not on the right side of taxes, I would like to say again that we should use the legal means to try to prevent the best tax charge. I say again, we Icelanders can't afford to lose billions of dollars a year from the tax system, which has truly been imposed on us by men. We can't afford to skip companies paying that kind of money. Neither are we to be forced into a new tax system because the old tax system has not come true. We are to follow it after men pay their dues. This case is a good step toward passing laws on those who have been pursuing social security, which is far too common in Iceland. I would like to encourage senators to agree with this matter. I assume that the matter is also involved. The Economic and Business Committee and have previously declared that I believe in the chairman of this committee, he is both zealous and zealous, I believe that he will take the matter into careful observation and bring it out as quickly as possible, as fast as possible. V.E.G. President. I suggest we take this matter very seriously and pass it through the council quickly and carefully.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u131	V.E.G. President. To back up why this bill is bad and will not achieve its purpose, I'm going to give a talk below. But I'm gonna wait on it till later. Of course, I could sense it on the subject at any given moment. paritaprevir Sourstein, Sæmundsson of Sæmund, speaks there as an old collector of the state's funds and is terribly worried that some billions of dollars are lost from a fund of laid taxes. On the other hand, I'd like to point them out. A senator says I'm an old switcher in Reykjavík. I've divided hundreds of people, and I can tell you what to do. A senator with 99% of these billions, of measured taxes, is not a real loss of income, but simply because humans do not give out the information and so on.; probably 99% of it. A company whose feet are bent doesn't owe a income tax. A tax they could possibly owe is a legal obligation to collect from others. But as we know, it's a criminal offense already. Then the question is, if it's a big deal about it, isn't it just that men who have committed a criminal offense can't be held in charge of an enterprise? Do we need this bill? It is indeed the loss of a government fund when men fail to return a valuable tax they have collected. But if it's just a matter of punishing men by not being in the management of companies or in business because they haven't paid taxes, I think it's a big deal. Because it does, I think, no good in the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u132	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator warms his words to this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u133	It's nothing small.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u134	I can assure the senator that as an old body collector of the state funds, I know the difference between holding taxes and taxes that are laid down. But it does not help, according to the information currently available, to see in itself that, many of them, are in the business of forming new enterprises when those with whom they divorce in the air no longer have room for room. It may well be -- and, of course, the failure to return taxes is punishable. I can't remember quickly -- now corrected. I'm sure the senator will answer or answer me in his second speech - after a very number of judges who have been sentenced to punishment recently for not returning taxes. Unless they were so much bigger then. It's not punishment that's behind the bill. The underlying issue is to try to prevent those who have acted in such a way as to leave their companies in the area of default, both with public and other agencies, to be placed in the front of the door to make it harder for them to start new companies. It may be 99% already gone, but it is more joy than one righteous person who returns to 99 unrighteous. And this 1%, according to the numbers I read earlier, is also money.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u135	V.E.G. President. Yeah, it's all money, I don't make it look small. I will follow up on the importance of this arrangement, the partner arrangement, and I don't think it would be right to make it difficult in a way that is done here, perhaps even partially destroying it. That's different. I'm simply saying that this is, I think, not nearly as much a problem as a whale. A senator speaks about in his background. I can't remember how many people I split up in the old days where it was just one requirement, that was the plan of the deposit system in Reykjavík. That was the only requirement. Of course, at times there were some inaccessible bills, such are most of these. This situation, however, will address everything. It doesn't matter whether there is criminal conduct, whether it is a legitimate business that broke down, no conditions are considered. It just passes over everyone without considering how the swelling came about, what was done in business, etc. Such bills are that mine never knows good. We always have institutions to review it, partners and institutions - the switcher is sure to be named right now - to review whether there was some abnormal activity in the operation. If it has been, there is a channel for it. If a person has committed a crime, it is easy to say that such men will be held in charge of an enterprise.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u136	Now I don't know what it is. A senator has not heard me in the speech I gave earlier, when I said that a 2005 study indicated that the managers of over 73% of companies believe that their company lost social security. 73% of companies, 73% of candidates, had lost social security. Not on the budget of the currency, nor on any such thing, but on the accounts between nonpriced parties. As far as it's part-employmental, I'd like to object. They once said that the booze was a bad sign. The social network is not well defined by social security users. That's for sure. But they do not just do so. They also cause harm. They're causing harm. If that is the case - and I don't doubt that this study from 2005 is correct, I don't doubt that people have honestly said it - that 73% of the executives feel that they have been damaged by social security protocols, I think we're in a relative position to reacting in some way that could minimize the risk of such activity. I know all that is expected of those who have not given tax returns, and the business is over. But another question is: Do we have a special interest in individuals who act this way - estimated year after year and end up in bankruptcy with a requirement that may not be fully justified - continue full - time service?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u137	Madam President. The bill we're discussing here, about the change in social law and the law on private societies, is in this way to say that it is an excellent example of good intentions, which, unfortunately, will likely be to cause more harm than is attempted to correct. That's often the way it is, and underneath it I'll take a 1st transporter man, w. paritaprevir Sæmundsson, to so-called social security, i.e. When it is the determination of the owner of a company and management to replace property and start a business with a new social security number, we have a problem that we need to face and face. And we need to solve the problem. Such deceitful conduct is a sign of mismanagement and unhealthy business practices, and it is really unfair when it comes to honest employees in Icelandic commercial living. If the bill that seems to me to be in the report is to try to master those who do such work to free themselves from a business that has become in trouble - even if it has been established in the first place for that purpose, as it is known - we need to get a hold of it. But this bill goes far beyond that. This bill actually leads to punishment - if the right of men to set up a business and establish a government is taken by them, it is a form of punishment - and it may be a punishment for people who have not been guilty of any kind of law, let alone a sentence. If the bill succeeds in the way it is suggested, it is clear that people who have done business honestly are being punished, people who have had to deal with business difficulties, the business has gone bankrupt in an honest way, and no property was taken away. It is most common for companies to take over and, as normal, to take over their possessions and then to be assigned according to the rules of creditors and to be required by the company. The very nature of the marketing trade is the failure of an enterprise. In the near future, I fear that unnecessary punishment and unreasonableness are being imposed. I simply doubt that there is professional rights guaranteed in a constitution to deprive people of employment freedom that in no way has broken the law, but that is what the bill is about. I also worry that this kind of bill, if it works, can significantly affect our future as a nation and our standard of living. Today, the highest standard recommended. Secretary of finance for the bill of incarceration when it comes to innovation and research. I believe that in general it has a bill, without me studying it, general support in this hall. This bill works against innovation companies. It is against young people who are planning to get their way with new ideas. Of course, not all innovation companies are going through, and we should admit it. We should not be suspicious of any way in which people build companies around new ideas, new goods, new services, and new solutions, and they may not succeed in the way they planned and hoped they would. A great deal of innovation companies, not just Iceland, but abroad, sailing on shores, going bankrupt. That's what I would call an honest bankruptcy. In fact, I suppose there is evidence that by doing so, we have invested little in the knowledge and experience of the individual. In the United States, I know that when people say that no one has become serious in business until he has had to drink it down and sail the fragile waters of trying to build a business from scratch to land on a wall for a period of two and a half times and go bankrupt. We must not act in a legal way here at the council, that doing business and setting up a company in a free market economy is made suspicious. It's part of a free market economy, market competition, that some ideas don't work. In fact, the market has passed its judgment, and the company is running out of business. This isn't the problem. The problem is, of course, when a person engages in dishonest business and what he or she calls a social security report. There are other healthy and better ways than what transporters offer. I would have preferred that men may have gone to the National Association of Employment and the National Association of Iceland, who produced some suggestions or ideas in the past year. It might also have been possible to pick up a taxpayer's carpenter. It can also be said here that the Economic and Business Committee has had this issue - not this bill but this problem, the social security network - for coverage and will continue and have included. I sent a representative to the governor's office. One of the factors that must be considered is that of looking forward to man - made design, i.e. that when a person requests a partner registration, he or she is assured that they will be in the condition of a trust fund, i.e. ... onemployment tax, payment of pension funds, and pay of taxes. It seems that a large part of what goes on and called a social security network is about scraping and saving money in the form of a worthwhile extra tax. I'm afraid this bill is going too far. It goes against the ideas I have of professional freedom. This is contrary to the fact that we prefer to support the efforts of people to make a career of their own and to promote new ideas about goods and services. Let's press it. Do not be suspicious of them, even if they fail at first, second or third attempts as long as they do business honestly. Rather, we do well to ask ourselves, " Is it not something in the rule book that can make it easier to start a business, that it becomes cheaper to start a business? ' Hv. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy has inspired it and said that we should be quick to make it relatively convenient and inexpensive for forming a partner or a private partner so that we are promoting an active - conditioned person.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u138	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for a fine speech. In his talk, he said: "There are other better ways to prevent this than the ones left on that bill, but he did not tell us who these better methods were. I really want to hear from a few words what would be the best part of it than here. Now I know that similar limits are placed on the formation of enterprises in the Northern states. You have been forbidden to create an enterprise using a time frame like this. They have given us a good time, and I would like to ask the senator if he would recognize them as being done to our neighbors and if he felt that their success is not going to be the same here by setting similar limits. First and most of all, I want to hear from it. A member of the Parliament what methods are more effective, i.e. preventing social security. How do you prevent 73% of enterprises from being damaged by social security? Has a what? A senator believes that numbers are made out of thin air? What percentage would he consider serious enough to respond the way the bill does?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u139	Madam President. I thought I had in my speech at least points to my speech. One way. It is to make it a requirement for those who record a new partner, request registration of a partner or private partner, that they have a clean level when it comes to holding, including worth tax. According to my information from the head of state tax, most of what is called social security, which is dishonesty, is a fraud when it comes to the bankruptcy of enterprises where property is taken, about stealing the state funds on the merit tax and, in fact, other remunerations, including collections of pensions that hurt employees of the enterprise. I think there's one way. If I recall correctly, it's one of the ideas of Iceland's Labour Associations and the All-American Union. They also point to the need for a taxpayer, who at the same time makes a annual bill to have a license to work. He has the authority to stop the business if he seems to be a fraud in that activity before bankruptcy. So there are many ways. For God's sake, I'm just asking senators not to act in such a way as to punish or put bonds on honest people who have been doing business and business, even though they have gone broke down once or twice.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u140	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this answer. That is what the Bible says in chapters 1 and 2. The bill that management and executives must not have been in charge in three years for two or more bankrupt communities. In short, it would say that there are two companies who lived in three years and that they lived longer than 18 months. That the firm lived longer than 18 months. Reading these articles is only clear. Then I'll have to ask you what. A member of Parliament: If any such law was made that you should not have controlled or brought near to the management of companies, more than one or more, this is about two or more, how many would the senator believe that this company could be as if the individuals had run out or lost their lives, regardless of how we put it, at the given time? Does the senator want to tell us if he thinks there should be five in three years or six or more? Where are we gonna pull the line? I'm familiar with this discussion about government fees and tax returns. The point is, despite those regulations, these parties do not stop. They will continue their business. They're starting new companies. So, in spite of my good intentions, a governor taxpayer, who I don't doubt is good, and despite his hard work, it doesn't work. Senator. That's why I ask: What better way than this and how many companies at how soon should be allowed to fail before they get any discomfort from it? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u141	Madam President. Now there's a little basic difference between my attitude and my attitude. paritaprevir Þorsteinn Sæmundsson, Sólmund, when it comes to business. I believe that on the basis all employers and employees are honest. I'm not gonna say there's supposed to be a law on that if the person's been in charge of a business and went bankrupt five times then they should get somebody to tie him up. I'm just saying, don't be punishing people who haven't broken a law, they haven't been accused, let alone be judged, but that's what this bill contains. I make no comment that dishonest people who engage in dishonest business practices are being bonded. We're supposed to work hard, but we're supposed to use the rules and honor the rules of rules we want to be used here in our relationships, not just between the state and the job, or between individuals and companies, but in general. We can never walk like this, no matter how good our intentions are, as is suggested here. It's like trying to justify it in some way, huh? A senator, that it's okay to put ten innocent people in jail to catch one of them. I don't see any difference between that and this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u142	A respectable president. I just want to say that I support this case. I'd like to ask you what. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason's a little better into this, and maybe my question is rather formed by reason against reason. Senator. First, just what we agree about. We agree on the importance of business and the importance of starting a business. It's totally normal for a company to fall apart. The private and social structure is designed directly to allow people to trip to pieces and still to try again. It's designed for that. I like it. I think it's important, and I think it's one of the most important things to be around to make innovation, for example. may happen. I think we're gonna do what. A senator will wholeheartedly agree on this. I agree that it should be easier to start partnerships and private societies, especially as a result. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy's been talking a lot about and like a dog. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason mentioned earlier. I feel like a whale. A senator acts as if this case is something other than what it is. There's no punishment in this case. In his later reply, he specifically mentioned that it was like putting ten men in prison to catch one of the guilty. I understand the illustration, but the drama is all I think. There is no such thing as punishment. Two companies over a period of three years are spoken of, and it is not as if this three - year period would be an eternity but as a result of one firm in the past three years. On average, they would have to go over every 18 months in a row so that they would not be able to establish a private partner or partner. He could not have done so until it was time enough for the first Society to have not gone under in the last three years. I think it's a very mild law. It's really as soft as it's real as it's real. That's why I approve of this bill even if I agree with it too. A senator on the importance of the private body. I just don't agree that there's too much digging under people's options to start a private partner to achieve what such social goals are meant to achieve. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm going to go into the constitution for a second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u143	Madam President. Of course, often when reasoning is presented, it may be good to start by trying to get a solid sense of what a word means. To me, the punishment is to prevent people from doing something that I consider to be governmental rights, including, It's a free job. There is, of course, a penalty. This is a series of judicial punishments for people who have not in any way violated a law, even though they have sailed on the beach with their own company. I'm also going to point my tail. A senator should, as he knows best, that it is such, especially in innovation companies, that men may have one, two, three companies underneath. There may be mommates and roommates, and so on, so I don't understand this 18-month rule. When the mother's society fails, everything is really gone. All I'm asking men to do - I'll be with you guys in convincing people to try to work on this miserable and serious ill, which is the betrayal of Icelandic commercialism that affects all of us and, like, honest companies. Let us work honestly on this, but do not say that it is being punished. Punish those who have violated the law and have done nothing but comply with law and order. The only thing they did is the company didn't work out.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u144	A respectable president. I like it, and it's important to me. A senator has explained how he understands the cause of punishment because if it is not explained to them, I would think that there was the penalty, or the penalty, or something like that. Of course not, but first it is. One senator noted that he calls it punishment when a person is deprived of governmental records when he has not done anything wrong, I can totally agree with that, in any case, if not everyone. [[Up front.]] However, this is not a review of government records, and it would be good for me to consider this subject. There are two articles in the constitution that I can see fit for this. One of them is the freedom of society, of parley 74th. The Constitution, and the rest, is the 75th sector of employment. I want to read it, with president's permission: ▪ Everyone is free to pursue the employment they choose. This freedom, however, can be restricted by law, requiring its public interest. If this is not enough, I'd also like to point out that the private and social structure is not in the nature of its profession. It's a tool for doing a job. There's nothing to deny that you can do your job without doing it with a private partner. You can do your job on your own social security number or on someone else's job or whatever. It does not need this particular social structure to do so. Other than that, this bill must be strictly public interest and nonexistent. There is no alternative to public interest. I specifically mentioned it myself. I appreciate the importance of the private part of society in innovation. I come from the software sector myself. In my own business, a private partner, and I can quite imagine setting a business on my head, but when it comes to putting two societies on my head in three years, I would feel quite fair and normal and just as wise for myself to wait only to start the next one until I was first with a slightly better plan. [[The president calls.]] Second, I would consider it a very small sacrifice if the goal is to keep the companies going first in terms of the public interest here in protecting.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u145	Madam President. To be honest, I must express my amazement at what. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson is his opinion. I thought I had an ally in him on this matter. But I'll learn as long as I'm alive. In my speech, I thought that I felt that way, and I reasoned that this bill was right against the public interest. On the contrary, this is against the public interests of the world because this can seriously affect how we are in the future, even in the future. the general concept of innovation and employment. It's trying to stop people from making the decision that I want them to start a business of their own, to start a business about new ideas, new products and services. How do you think it is for young people to try to convince e.g. investing in any new creation project and entering the management of its enterprise if this is at risk to the individual? So he could sit on perhaps ten of the world's innovation companies and three would go under. What? I think this is a way to prevent investors and people with knowledge and experience from taking on and being willing to sit in the governments that are at risk and that are likely to sail in the coast, as a large part of new enterprises do, unfortunately, is normal and not wrong and not punished, and is part of a free market economy, therefore. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u146	V.E.G. President. It's always the same problem for me when I'm having a talk afterwards. Óli Kárason the son of Káll, he hath given the speech for me. Of course, I'm not dramatic as he is. I'd like to start by saying that I have the impression that there's a person in general who's not aware of the part-social nature, i.e. social shapes with limited responsibilities are important. This is actually a prerequisite for the development of a real life in the West. All the lead from the Western countries was this form. That's totally forgotten. I'm not against what I call a social security report. What's the social security number? I know exactly what social security is in my sense, of course. I worked on these jobs most of my life's work, dividing people with swellings as a public worker, and last of all as an attorney. I think that those on social security travel are those who do dishonest business, e.g. Order products that are not for payment, take everything out of business, and leave it to go to another. It's a fraction. It is to take a wrong course to take some steps that you know you cannot cope. I don't know how many I went to the police for that kind of thing over the years. The problem is this bill doesn't deal with it. It only limits the Constitution's right to do business in this form. Of course, you are absolutely right. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason said this last time. We have men and women in charge of a number of high-risk companies, especially innovation companies. We saw a collapse in the administration of many companies, all of whom went under special circumstances. If this had been legal at the time, none of these people could have shared in the business, normal employment, with all their experience and knowledge. That's why this bill is actually more damaging than doing the good that humans are trying to get on a social security scale. I think to try to keep a social security record better - of course, people always cheat; it doesn't matter what songs we put in if a person is going to cheat - and limit the social security number - it would be better if it was taken seriously when it turns out that business was dishonest and not legal. If men are charged and convicted of such things, I'll say, Okay, you can't do business for a while. Not a problem on my part if man has indeed committed a crime. I agree with what. Kárason We are on a special expedition now trying to promote innovation, we know that more than 90% of these companies are going under. That is the nature of the matter, has always been, and always will be. I'm not sure that's necessarily a lot of damage because they talked about harm here. My impression is that such a bill actually comes out because there's a very public opinion that bankruptcy on its own is criminal. Then there are others who sit in the soup, and the bankrupt person needs to have some responsibility for it. This is the problem around this. We're just hearing it in general discussion, that's all it takes to go to social media. If a person has been in charge or has run a business that goes upside down, he is not careful with his greeting, but, of course, he receives a prize from a free store or somewhere when things are going well. We either rewarded people or kicked them. That's very Icelandic. I think we should resign. I can honestly say my opinion of the loss or loss of the real social security number, I think it's overrated too. The assessment is natural, mainly, that there are some large numbers for which public figures are not available. When it comes to studies where you are asking if you have lost the social security number or have lost in somebody else's bankruptcy... [[Up front.]] I'm not sure that there's a lot of difference between people in this kind of answer. It doesn't matter. It's usually in a very limited business, huh? paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson, they're known. A little self - monitoring can be done too. I'm not going to do business with these people who have established one company after another around their usual plumbing or the usual simple activity. It's usually that way. Of course, humans can limit the damage by being a little awake themselves. I agree, however, that when a man is cheating on a job, it's very annoying. I want to handle it, and it's very important that we have a good surveillance. We have a exchange manager who, of course, should be informed if there's something abnormal in the operation and they do, I think I'm equal. Tanks can observe and charge. So there are a number of options to match social security. I agree with that. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason that this is what I think is going to be harmful and make things worse. I'm just asking people to think this through. Of course, it goes into a committee. paritaprevir The village of Sæmundsson, and let's go over it carefully there. Try to determine where the problem is and whether there is not some simpler alternative, more efficient measures that deal directly with the problem rather than with such a general procedure in which humans are actually punished for something that is not criminal. I agree with what. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason. Of course it's a punishment, just like curfew is punishment. You are not free to do what you are granted the right to do in the constitution. I'm asking men to take better care of this, to consider this better. It seems to me that this is a fairly unchanged bill from what Karl Garðarsson proposed at the time. I think I've been on a TV show with him, in Cast light, because of it. Of course, because I wasn't happy with the bill, I'd be defending criminals like I always seem to be doing. But, of course, I'm protecting the public interest in this. There are more and more public interests I have in mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u147	A respectable president. We're here to discuss a bill about changing the social law and private parts law and in parentheses behind the issue is called a social security event. That's what we're talking about, and I think those who carry this bill are trying to fight it, and it's actually clearly stated in the report and fine background here. I can wholeheartedly agree with the goals set out in the bill. I think those who have addressed this bill today would agree that there is, of course, a lesion when people deliberately derail an enterprise and take over property and have a business with a different social security number. This has been discussed for a long time as a specific lesion in Icelandic employment. Although I haven't been at the council for a long time, I have often wondered about this, and this is one of the first matters I began to consider when I came into this council and thought, " What are we doing in this matter? ' I studied the work that was then the highest. Industrial and innovation minister Ragnhedður Elín Árnadóttir had set in motion and read me about the discussion when it came to action as described here in this bill. Then there is great anxiety that such measures would specifically take on innovation companies. I spoke earlier today as we were discussing innovation and measures to promote innovation in this country, and I said and stand by saying that one of the most important things for Icelandic employment is that it's easy to start a business and we have an arrangement to make it easy for us to pursue innovation. Most people who have considered this point point out that this is a risk factor when it comes to it, this may reduce innovation, have a certain power of speech. I think there's quite a point. But I'm not going to be the same drama as those senators, my fellow members, who have discussed this matter before me, but I think that in the ground they are right. I have to say, having run a business, myself and my husband, and he especially with small industrial companies that have walked through a number of times, you've often wondered what it's like, and I'm therefore able to understand the public's anger when reading news of the fact that the others and these companies have gone missing and left a trail of debt. I've often watched this business with us, and when things have gone wrong, I've thought, " How do you get out of this business? I've thought it was such that most debts based on these types of companies are just property taxes. Then it's criminal, and as a result, I've never understood how to escape it. I think we need to take this matter up for discussion, and in fact, we have only a few problems. A financial and business committee, particularly in the context of a discussion that occurred earlier in the fall on labour market subs. We have visited the head of the state tax, and we have described the employees'knowledge of this process that the original - language process was only a matter of reference to the developers and how other people were invited to run the business in the final meters. Often it would be people who might have had little to do with their business at first. There are even certain individuals who are known for starting new and new companies and who always end up with disaster. There must be some way we can prevent this from happening exactly. It is well - known in this contractor's business that complains that this is a most competitive situation, which it certainly does. That's why I've been in favor of the so-called chain responsibility, as the town council in Mosfellsville, introduced such things to the country society of Mosfellstown in the same way as I know that the capital has done and more rural areas. Then the responsibility of the local community is encouraged when an invitation is offered to follow up on the job site or any person involved in the job will be paid in accordance with collective agreements and no one will have public debts behind them and any other. I'm very into this, and I think we need to find some further implementations on that sort of thing. I'm going to say I'm glad that this bill is done, not because I can express a firm support for what it is, but because I can declare support for the goals. Hopefully, this can lead to our discussion and evaluation. I heard what it was. paritaprevir The armoured Níelsson felt that there was an overestimation of the damage such a company may leave behind, and perhaps this bill can help us in our work to evaluate the real losses of society from bankruptcy and social social social security, and at the same time, what would be the best way of trying to stop them. Of course, there is nothing illegal about a business crash. I think most of us must be able to agree on the importance of society and the fact that it regularly happens to a company to fail. It's only natural for a company to become a new company. It's just part of the market. But when people make a move to run a business, it may not be the right word, to play, but when people take away all their assets from their parts, the company is running out, and at the same time, the party may be back in business with the same property that was in the former partner, it's simply wrong. It must be a betrayal and cheating on the system we've established. Sadly, these events are happening, and in some way we have to develop a closer bond, since this damages society, notably the business and competition there. I can't wait to get this case into something. The Economic and Business Committee, and they see the reviews that come on, and they're just going to let me be optimistic about how it can start a discussion and maybe some solution that we can later use to improve this situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u148	V.E.G. President. I'd like to thank you for the discussion we've had here. After all, it is wonderful to know that not all of us need to agree. I heard it coming from the speakers, at least two of whom were saying that they were very far off and weighed down on those who are engaged in free work. Now it's not that I believe that part-social form is the source of cheating unless it is less. I have a lot of respect for that form, and I'm right. paritaprevir Brynjar the son of Níelsson said earlier, perhaps the basis for the prosperity of the West. However, I would like to reexamine the figures I had earlier that, according to research, revealed that up to 0.3% of national production disappears in social security, or 7 billion dollars. every year. A 2005 study says that 73% of the executives of the enterprise think they are working for have lost the social security number. It's not a tax rate, it's not a fee. This is the amount of money people are losing in a free business. The numbers I presented in my lead speech earlier include from a recent master's essay in which a special study of social security was conducted in Iceland. They're not caught out of the air. They are not made up, taken from a scientific study or a driving study. I'm asking men to keep that in mind. Is this punishment? This may well be punishment. We are also punished if we are taken more than once under the wheel. Then we lose our rights temporarily to steer vehicles. I know there's a traffic violation, and there's no law against it. paritaprevir Brunes the Brynjar of Níelsson. That may well be so. If it is so that 73% of the country's managers or companies are damaged by a social security account, I'd like to pick up this 73% account. Not particularly because I wanted to punish someone who cheated on them or who had that money in some way. I'd still like to pick up the report for the 73% that was truly damaged by the social security network. I am very happy that this matter was being arranged, and I am also very pleased that these discussions were being conducted here, and I am very pleased that they were drawn up by the controversy that exists between those who favor the greatest freedom and us who, according to the way they draw their feet, meant conservatives and drag dwellers. I felt that way for a long time. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason that deep down, all men are honest. I can honestly admit that my experience, e.g. Because of being a tax collector for 11 years, a minor has put my faith in them. I'll be happy to admit it. I will also admit, if you have been doing business for several years, that experience undermined the view that everyone in your heart is honest. I'm sorry. This is why they are cut by this bill, to bind those who are dishonest, and to bear volleyball from those who are injured by them. I'm glad this bill is going to go to what? The Economic and Business Committee. I really hope that before the committee they will be called very many guests, very many business guests, so that they can prove or report their experience in social security. I expect this coverage to improve this matter, possibly to make some changes in the activities of the Committee. It's only natural if the committee thinks it needs to change. The important thing is that we, i.e. The lawgiver, in some specific way, suggests that we are not going to carry volleyball. We want to minimize it. We want it to be gone, and I think the legislation should imply it in an irrefutable way. What is suggested in the bill and has caused great emotion and criticism in some speakers here today, has worked, thank youably, in Sweden, e.g. and beyond. I haven't seen it, it may well be, but I haven't seen it, that business life there has been damaged by increasing the rules and requirements of business people. What my good coal is. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason and Brabbur Níelsson's son have wanted to call punishment, I prefer to call order. Whatever we do here and whatever we do, this bill will be done. I think a financial and business committee cannot reach that conclusion or make it look like a social security report is in some way normal, that's a natural cognition of a business. Again, I call attention to the fact that this is a assumed position made by individuals or lawyers that would have lived for 18 months, 18 months, and one day, to be precise. In the case of two enterprises that have not survived that period in three years, their managers are restricted to their founding or coming to an enterprise for a certain period of time afterwards. Is that harsh? Maybe. Sometimes you have to set the rules that work. I say again, shall we not look at those who are injured? Why don't we watch the number, which is also from the Master's essay that I quoted earlier? In the United States alone, the cost of social security has increased to as much as $2 billion in a three - year period. Who has suffered this harm? Tanks, possibly government funds. If you're right about what you're eating. paritaprevir The Brynjar of the son of Níelsson usually loses most of the money. If we give ourselves 70% or so, I can guarantee that the state funds can totally use 15 billion over a three - year period, clearly. All society can easily use extra 7 billion a year. If it's possible to prevent damage to 7 billion a year by getting a link to a social security number, I think it's worth a lot of money to try to stop it. The important thing is my joy that this matter should be addressed, that is important, and even more important that it come to the committee. I trust the Commission's coverage will be very selective and will be called on by the voices of those who have been damaged by a social security report, which will be heard. If they have better advice than they do on the bill, it's no time to change the bill to the Commission. Then they do. The result is what matters, not necessarily the method. If you have a way of dealing with this lesion in a different way than you can do here in these two bill articles, then you may want to take it into account and take into account what is more likely to occur. I can't say that orderliness and representing those who are injured are some kind of punishment for others who have walked in ways that are not necessarily criminal but obviously not decent. Frankly, I look forward to it. A financial and business committee will take this matter to heart, and it will return to the General Hall to the 2nd. so that it can be continued.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u149	Madam President. The senator and I were discussing here in front of the viewpoint when a social security number damages the companies who are beaten by those who run away from their responsibilities. That's why we want to take care of it, but it also misplaces a competitive position on the market. However, the way this bill puts you to this bill limits the freedom of people's jobs, and you have certain things on the scales. What if the social security and its damage could be prevented without limiting your job freedom? I've heard one suggestion when I've talked to employers who have been with most of the most successful companies for a very long time. One puts it this way: that he and other employers should have access to good information on social security, who has run out of business, and who has had some sort of business and social security number on him that has gone missing recently after that company was sold. We will also be able to control the scope, if we see such a thing over and over again that there is a person who is taking advantage of this funeral service, having a list of unscrupulous companies or a company that has taken over another partner, and who has had him killed. If this real-time information is available for employers, they can make a much more informed decision on whether they are going to do business with the person, and this would also include public members who have room, as it were. paritaprevir A Birgir Ármannsson farm mentioned, not to shop with parties on some sort of business story.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u150	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for taking part in the discussion with this counterargument. About the last thing that ever happened. A senator said I would like to first state that, by law, public members are not allowed to shop or negotiate with a party, for example. we don't understand the state's budget, the person who hasn't been given in dues, etc. This has happened, however, in line with a recent example I gave in my speech today in the city of Reykjavík, which is making a new agreement here with a business service of the disabled and is now in my third social security, although I don't know how long, so it's not absolute. But there are laws that apply. You can do some other way, even with information, etc.? Yes, in Iceland, I believe, a fairly difficult dissolved list that contains information about people who have been missing repeatedly. Should we say that it is to warn parties not to do business with such? It may be sufficient, but it has not been enough. Separating information has occurred here probably between two, three, four companies in the last 15 years if I remember correctly but it has not worked. The question is, Should we take this step? Is that the inhibition of employment freedom? Possibly. This will only be evident in the case of the committee. If the committee believes that this bill is against a constitution, it will not pass it. I don't think so. I say again: When 73% of corporate executives claim to have been damaged by the social security network, I have a ◯tendens-•to respond to the 73%.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u151	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a bill to correct any change in funds and institutions acting according to a confirmed organisational log and law on the affairs of the elderly; this is in the home of the pregnant elderly and safe dwellings. Transporters, along with those who stand here, are why. Councilmen Árnadóttir Kolbrún Arnad, Birggir Þórarinsson, Gunnar Sveinsson, Bergþór Ólason, Sigmundur, Davíð Gunnlaugsson, Jónsson, and Willum Þór Þórsson. The bills of the same material were brought to a Council of 143, 144, and 145, but they were not paid off. The bill is simple, that is, two articles. 1st par. It reads: ... 5th floor. The Law's Act on Funds and institutions that operate according to a confirmed organizational registry, No. 19/1988, with subsequent changes - ◯ add a new case, as follows: State review should be conducted to evaluate financial status, management ratings and material resources and organisations before giving such a report and refer to the results. Il. chapter 1 is a change in the law on the affairs of the elderly, No. 125/1999, with subsequent changes. 2.g. The bill reads, directed to that law, by permission of the President: ▪ At 13. The law adds new numbers, as follows: The sale of domestic rights in local homes and other comparable rights is required to make buyers account of property and all the mortgages that already lie on the property of funds or institutions. The buyer shall sign the confirmation that he has been presented with these files. A sea or an institution is obliged to care for a plagion because of the residence rights of the household and other comparable rights. The residence rights of the household in local homes and other comparable rights to previous mortgages should be left behind by reimbursement of the relevant property. Madam President. The number of elderly Icelanders is increasing. According to Haguems' project, in two decades the Icelanders will be 70 years old and the older will be 62,000. A significant number of elderly people live in so - called security camps that have been built by real estates, most commonly owned by automatons. It is proper to note that some self-employed institutions have established special societies around individual agricultural resources, for reasons I am not familiar, but have, in many cases, gone a long way toward the inhabitants of the area. For example, a recent example of the residence of a Council of Christmas, a Assembly in Kópavogi, where older people were allowed to share either with certain costs of partnership or to be disfellowshipped from their apartments. Therefore, Mr. President, there is every reason to believe that these matters are taken up here at the General Assembly in a certain way. There are other factors in this matter. It has been some time since the elderly people lost their home care. It was that the elderly had been mortgaged without people realizing it, including the elderly in many cases involved. There were a lot of people whose lives were almost lost in one blow. The transmissions of the bill are the first time they agreed that something else would not be allowed to happen again. It has been observed before and in other cases, e.g. To this day, the Central Party has become more relevant in providing bills to correct the interest of the elderly and to make the way of the elderly as much as possible. This bill is one smell of it. As mentioned earlier in the discussions, and in talks presented by the Central Party representatives here at the General, the elderly are very different. Elderly people are not one group, not one million. Older ones have very different positions, they need different actions, if we can put it that way, different assistance even. As members of the General Assembly, we need to realize this and we need to, and as a result, the middle tribe has striven to present resources and suggestions that benefit the elderly wherever they are on this swing, or this bed, which we are talking about. Although this bill has been submitted three times before, it has not been decomposed. This is especially important, though, because the security camps listed in the bill are increasing in number as the number of elderly people in Iceland increases. Thus, there are more and more elderly ones who rely on these provisions. It is for us to see that there is evidence of confidence, that people of old age, the people who created this society, the people who made Iceland what it is now, cannot be avoided. I've sometimes said, "This group is the most patient group in Iceland." He takes whatever is needed by patient endurance and free from murmuring. These are not people who make demands. They are not people who even stand up for themselves when it is a palace. Hence, we need to come to this group and ensure that by all means his rights are in place. Well, out on that note, this bill goes on in very short terms. Mr. President. I'd like to believe that this time the bill will be taken to a careful treatment of a committee and that it will be here at the General General for a serious payment, as one says, and that we will ensure that events like us have happened before, where people's life savings have been in danger again. These good people who spend their lifetime in apartments like this, or things like this, deserve from us younger ones that we can guarantee their best interests as much as possible. Wherever the case lands - I assume it will go. As opposed to the welfare committee, I call them what. The Council's committee, which treats the situation as a firm and treats it well and then returns to 2rd. so that it can be taken care of. The generation involved in this matter deserves our attention.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u152	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator of history. I decided that this case has been submitted before. You see, I thought I recognized it. I know of the problems that have existed and are related to security and service camps, especially after collapse, after many of these partners had been very successful in building and just the people themselves who had thought they were buying apartments but did not have a plural description that they owned the apartment as such. Now, I especially know the Erik case, as it was called, but it's true that this has come up many places. In fact, I think these great communities that have been able to build such apartments have changed their shape now, but that doesn't change that I think there's a full reason for this. But I'd like to know what. A senator's comments on the matter were received at the time. Have they been taken into account when making the bill today? I could see that there were a lot of reviews. I couldn't read all of them, I ran over a few. I saw that rural communities, members who have come to this sort of thing, state reexaminers, and others had sent in envelopes. In case of a moment. A senator could tell me about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u153	V.E.G. President. In short, the issue is presented unchanged, as it has been previously. Transporters realized at the time that the bill would not be taken with the benefits and genders of its business, i.e. Of the independent private enterprises that were involved in these machines, and we were not entirely sure that the State Accounting wanted to take on this, i.e. that they felt that they had a lot of work to do, and this assignment was not necessarily within their reach. But what a responsibility it is when we see that a greater part of the care offered by elderly people in Iceland is owned or guided by either a private or an independent partner but is often supported and supported by the State. In some way, we have the belief that those who have support or special support from the State should in themselves feel that their language is well reviewed and considered, and that in itself it was not taken into consideration that such comments were made. As I say again, we had no reason to expect this to be taken with great joy because, at least, it is an added responsibility that is being put on hand and being made known to men that they are being carefully monitored for their operations. But this does not change the fact that these events of the past and subsequent events in themselves have confirmed that these matters are well reviewed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u154	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. In fact, he found that in the case of the service of older citizens and the building of apartments for them, it is very much for autodiversities, I think, in most cases, or some sort of society that has involved it. I welcome the diversity of business plans. I'm very into it, and I think these societies are many of them who have lifted a lot of rock and made a huge difference to all of us. I remember having a conversation with the people at the Assembly around the election who were very at odds with how their affairs had played. I made some sort of effort to study these matters and discussed them. to the director of the case and to the director. If I don't forget, it's the duty of these partners to send annual bills to Government Accounting, but it's not revised in any way by Government Accounting. They're just light. I spoke to a member of the State Accounting Office who said: "We're responsible for all this but that it's just published here. Of course, I agree that it is only in other ways when we discuss the nursing home. There is more monitoring, e.g. In terms of the day's expenses coming from the state, there's something else. But what we are particularly discussing is this structure that has been on the apartments for an elderly, so - called safe apartment. Of course, it was only a good one to build such an apartment, but then it became a so - called collapse that was naturally major, and it was found that this snowball was no longer working, it landed on a wall. So I look forward to dealing with the situation in a financial and business committee and reviewing the comments on the matter, but I deny that I think the budget has changed something, because there is every reason to look after these matters and to ensure the rights of those who had really considered themselves to be investing in apartments.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u155	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer, and I hear that the bill has a good team member at what time. A member of the Economic and Business Committee. I take my heart to say that we must protect the rights of these good people. I happen to say so, and I agree with what. A senator's experience is that aging has been in many ways owned by either private or private institutions for a very long time. I think the first raven home was built around 19551957, if I remember correctly. So it's a long story. That doesn't change it, and by reason of it. A senator mentioned seeing people at the Volunteer, and I know that too. It's a matter that unfortunately hasn't yet given me a chance to put myself in completely, because that's where we're having an example of a conflict. The decision is given in court, and the judgment says: "The people own the court. Then, after that, the landlord changes the circumstances and puts the members of the household or those living in that safe camp at the cost of agreeing to pay a joint expense that the local court had already said should not pay, or leave the house. I know that six or ten people have. People in their 70's, 70's, and 80's have left their homes who thought they were guaranteed permanently because they were treated like this. Hence, even if there was a break, the issue is not over.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u156	V.E.G. President. I make a proposal here to conspire about measures to reduce international fuel costs. With me, the suggestion goes. Councilmen of Bergþór Ólason, Birggir Þórarinsson, Gunnar Sigurður Sveinsson of Sjönn, Páll Davíð Gunnlaugsson, Jónsson, and Þóldadur Sæmundsson. The proposal was previously moved to the 148th legislature but could not be carried out, thus being reassigned here. According to the legislation on the equation of oil transport costs, equal amounts of oil products should be used, as detailed. The goal of the law is to ensure that fuel prices are the same all over the country to balance the conditions of living and the competitive status of companies. The transport costs, however, are not limited to fuels designed for export and are fueled for international transport, thus increasing the fuel for international airports in Akureyri and Bulgaria than in Keflavík. This proposal suggests that transport and local government ministers, together with financial and economic ministers, prepare a legal bill to change the cost of international fuel. Such a change would strengthen the position of tourism in the country and contribute to the distribution of tourists across the country. Following the discussion here, I suggest that the proposal be made for the job committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u157	V.E.G. President. Here's a very good topic for discussion. A few women from the North Eastern Precinct brought a bill with the same objective at Council 145 in 2016, a bill for changing the law on the equations of oil transport, No. 103/1994, with subsequent changes (translation of fuel prices on international airports). At that time, a 1st transporter was still there. paritaprevir Sævarsdóttir Saevarsdóttir's negative on the subject. Councilmen Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Brynhildur Pétursdóttir, and Valgerður Gunnarsdóttir. Although it is a very good matter, I wondered, " What is the purpose of this movement already being carried out in accordance with a strategy adopted here by 62 joint votes in our time? ' There we all agreed that international airports would be treated with an equation. There are specific tasks. There are supposed to be comparable facilities for international airport service. A team will be appointed to work on the proposal and the price of aircraft fuels on the international airports. The aim is for the group to submit proposals at the end of 2018. This is a responsibility and the development of the Department of Transport and Division. The appointed time is this year. The project is highly defined and marked. Because the matter has been followed, and there has been a reason. paritaprevir Dr. Anna Sævarsdóttir, along with others standing guard, pressed this. The conclusion is that we agreed on this here into a policy-making program. So I ask why. Councilman, 1st of this proposal today: What is this case meant to achieve that is not already being developed?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u158	V.E.G. President. So it is to answer that the bill is intended to increase the emphasis that we have some real action on the table. That is the quick answer to that question.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u159	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for the answer. It is a fine price, and it is good to submit the Council's decree. The matter is already under way. They're working on it. I have reliable evidence that we will have conclusions before the end of the year. I wondered if the speed of members of the Central Party were so strong in recycling a case that they did not quite realize this situation, that the matter has come into play. I wondered, " Has anyone really gone out of business picking up matters from others? ' It's still very good, but I just don't see the point. A young group and its members may still be finding their many to see where the emphasis is to be found. But here's just another good progress issue. I'm happy as if I'm always glad that I'm doing good, and I'm glad they're being lifted up. But the point of making this case, I just can't see why. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-08-29.u160	V.E.G. President. I thank you again and again that we agree with each other. I reiterate that the answer is still the same as before, i.e. to see that the situation is resolved. There's nothing else behind it, just nothing.
