ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u1	It is a meeting between the presidents and the council groups that we can have a meeting this afternoon. 20, i.e. until the second part of the 1st. ... about1919'sfinance's over. Ministers now recognize their language groups and participate in discussions about them. Meeting arrangements are made for the discussion. Ministers have five minutes to go. Then a member of Congress can direct a inquiry to the minister and have two minutes to do so twice. However, members of Congress may decide that two members of the Parliament will speak from a category for just two minutes each. Those answers will not be allowed. The order of the Ministers will be as follows: Prime Minister, Minister of Affairs, Industrial and Neony Ministers, Health Ministers, Transport and Foreign Ministers, Education and Culture, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Ministers of Justice, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Environmental and Resource Ministers and, finally, Marine and Agriculture Ministers. At the end of the discussion, financial and economic ministers speak for up to ten minutes, members of Congress speak for up to ten minutes each, and finally a last word from a minister will be spoken for five minutes. Any objections will be permitted only after the completion of the Minister's speech. The president also wants to direct them to a clear conclusion. Councilmen and the highest. Ministers that they respect deadlines. It is a long day ahead of us, so the president will not be very tolerant if the session is conducted.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u2	Mr. President. We now contribute a second budget of this government and the first item offered, if we can put it that way, in the environment that the economic situation in Iceland is strong. Great growth has taken place in the economy over the past few years. For example, in the case of so - called stable donations, the state's funds have made it possible to pay off debt and strengthen its status severely, resulting in a significant decrease in the debt of the state budget of 88 billion in the past 12 months and a significant decrease in the interest of the state budget. Clean interest costs are about 26 billion lower in 2019 than in 2011, which is a great step in the restoration of the economic system and its construction after a collapse. However, we face challenges. What this government has stressed is to attack the development of social infrastructure that has not been associated with economic benefits. This financial bill is a second step, we can say, on the way, after the first one that came here last year. The budget also sets the lines for that structure. There we look for building up in various language groups that we've all got here in this room, I think the public's strong demand for an attack. In particular, I would like to mention the health issues that have been at the top of the nation's top in a routine survey, where we see a major building project for investments, especially in a new hospital but also in the health - care business. There are two specific issues that I would like to mention, on the one hand, to reduce the payment of patients remaining on this budget bill, which is a very important equation operation and that is important for us to put Iceland into controlled shapes to form with other North countries where the payment of patients on the land has been higher than anywhere else in the North countries. Then I want to mention the specific mental health issues that I believe are one major project ahead of all of us. It has been the first step toward increasing access to psychologists throughout the country, and especially for young people. There, though, I believe that we need to look to policy development for a long time because this I think is one of the major challenges for our health - care system, i.e. how we will prevent our health from becoming the problem we believe they have become today. We see to it that the surgeon general's warnings that young people's spiritual health is being made, to witness in the study by a surgeon since 2017. I talked about patients' expenses. I find it important to keep it here that the measures proposed in terms of taxes and reforms, although there is no doubt someone who is not adequately advanced, all aim to strengthen the level of less income and lower intermediate groups. This may be where the growth of child repairs to the level of a child's low income family may be the most important thing. I know that some people in this hall have talked about it. How happy we are now that the situation of these families is improving greatly by improving with the child - reforming system! I would also like to mention what may not have been so much discussed, that the upper limit of the tax system is now attached to a consumer calculus, such as the lower limit. These limits have been shifted in different ways, i.e. The upper limit of the product has been transferred with a pay number and the lower limit with an consumption marker. This has been highly critical. It's very important that we have harmony between us. And then a personal discount is increased by 1% above the index price of consumption. All of this is to the equation. Then I must mention the environment. There we have seen a turning point in finance. It may be that someone doesn't think this is a major priority, but it is now that if we don't start investing in climates, it's just too late to do something about it. How vital it is that we begin to react now in order to fulfill the Paris Convention's commitments to my emissions! We know that if we don't get it, it's not just a global case, it's also a huge financial issue. We have accepted this commitment and will pay the price if we do not fulfill it. Then, of course, it is the big environmental responsibility. As far as the Ministry of Presidency is concerned, I won't have many words about that. I expect members of the council to use their opportunities here to ask questions about the Ministry of Presidency and the changes made there. I will answer those questions with joy and the best of my ability.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u3	Mr. President. At the top. Prime Ministers are both fans of French Pikettys. He says that the possession of Western nations will be as unmatched as it would be in the 18th and 19th centuries. We're on our way to the Middle Ages. Between-class community to capitalistic society. Few rich men will follow, and we will go in the direction where democracy departs from wealth. Of course, Iceland is no exception when it comes to growing property restraint. The five richest percent have as much as the other 95%, in 2016 90% of the population grew by 209 billion, which said 1 billion. K. in 200,000 families, while each family of the richest percent received 25 billion. We also know the status of the common people when the harshness of the valley goes down, the inflation rises, the growth rises, the public bleeds. The top layer then finds a chance to defend itself in one way or another, including to take their money to Panama or to other lands. In the goodness field, rich people also find ways to profit. Money gathers fewer hands, and the common people always have to maintain stability. And now for the winter, by adjusting their pay requirements. It's not pretty, topv. Prime Minister. After reading the budget bill, I feel that nothing is done to reduce property balance. So I ask the highest. Prime Minister how she feels about this lack of this part of the budget bill, whether she has put her Pikety book on the shelf, or how she's going to react in this government, what action we can expect, which way she will go to achieve this equation in better terms.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u4	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for raising an issue of vital importance. You're absolutely right. A senator said, and we agree that when we look at the equation in Iceland and in international relations we know that income equations are relatively high in Iceland, although in this room we may have only different opinions about how much it should be. In order to respond to increasing equations when it comes to earning money, it is very important that the review on reforming reforms and tax systems is not at all useful to them. Although, I think it's true. A senator says that there is nothing to be done when it comes to a property problem, that it is important to keep it in place that both child reforms, personality discounts, and the change in the upper level, all in order to contribute to more equations when it comes to earnings. Then we come to the property. Hv. A senator says there's nothing in this case, and it's absolutely true that in this budget bill it's not submitted to a change in fiscal tax, since it was raised by 10% on the last budget bill, from 20% to 22%. However, the work is taking place to evaluate this tax base in comparison with other countries, whether we appreciate that this is sufficient, since there has been a long argument over whether it is like taxation and a similar tax stock. That work isn't finished. On the other hand, I'd like to draw attention to what. This is because the decrease in capital income tax by 2 billion from the financial programme is mainly explained by the design, that it is not because the tax has not gone up and is not charged, that 2016 was in the future budget of the state's income due to stability proposals, but it is no longer the case. So it really is an accounting factor, although the capital tax is a fluctuated tax base. This is also explained in part because the number of responders there has been reduced. Hv. A senator refers to a tax bill and a tax evasion. In the spring months, we agreed on a bill just so that we might further harden the growth against tax evasion. I'd like to discuss it more if I get the chance in the second talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u5	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for this. It's good for a minister to accept that in this government nothing is being done in this part of the matter. Of course, it is not good for her not to offer any further action in a konsical manner. If we just look at the fiscal tax, how it appears in OECD countries, Iceland is among the lower countries. After we raised the tax to 22%, we are in Switzerland and Spain. I can't live with the fact that we're gonna get involved in this for some year by working and making reports that show up after two years, where people are looking at whether this is the same as anywhere else. We have a situation here where money can be shaved. About a thousand people own, for example. 98% of all the money we have in Iceland, which is individually owned, and we need nothing but to put our finger in the air and watch around us to see how people are making money here while others don't. I'd like to ask exactly if a minister of the next election will speak again for an even higher capital tax, if it will speak with me for the richest tax on the longest people. Whether she can think of us putting on people like us who have super wages and then can lower the lowest level of income. And if she doesn't see that it's normal as soon as we protect the weakest fishing companies, we can at least draw close to the fact that the richest companies aren't paying off hundreds of billions in a few years.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u6	Mr. President. That was a lot of questions. Senator. I will do my best to answer them. I reiterate what I said earlier, raising funds and improving regulations and other information trade agreements in order to prevent tax fraud is all that is on the agenda and has already been attacked in the history of the government. Then I'd like to object to that. A senator understands my words so that the capital tax is not being done. I went over earlier that he was raised by 10% less than a year to the proposal of this government. But I do believe that it is not enough just to put your finger in the air and take the wind, but to attack this diagnosis of tax collectors. That's exactly what I said for the last election. In the past ten years, we have seen an amazing number of tax changes. I preached that I thought it was important that we prepare more carefully for the changes in the tax system and improve our consultations. That's exactly what we're doing. On the other hand, I view property inexorably as what we need to be the most aware of. While it is also important to look to the level of income, it is in the property position where the discrepancy appears. Hv. A senator mentioned various tax institutions, fishing fees, and so on. I'd like to say what. However, a senator will likely agree with the shift that took place during the season of 2009 to 22013, where the fishing expenses were extended. In fact, at that time, a government stand was opposed to putting such an exuberance into this currency. I'm of the opinion that it should be inside, that the fishing costs should be linked, but that means, of course, just as tax recovery is really connected, that the fishing costs will be linked. We can then discuss exactly how we want to expand our share. The Marine Secretary of the Ocean tells a bill about it. We must also face the fact that if we agree on this trend, hunting costs will rise and decrease. [[The president calls.]] They certainly have if we consider just a few years back in time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u7	Mr. President. At the top. The prime minister of Henry's Katrín Jakobsdóttir had a fine conversation in a spring financial committee explaining that in the responsibilities of the prime minister's responsibility, there is talk of government relations with the General Assembly. The basis for this budget work professionally at the council is that information from the government is available for us to cooperate with it, e.g. information about a dresser's case that will no doubt translate changes to the budget bill at the council and should mean a change. For information directly received from a minister or through their declaration in the government, we need to be able to find clear answers to our questions quickly if we are to do our job professionally. If we do not consider information to be good enough or even misleading, how vital it is for our trust in society and for our good cooperation with the government to be able to get clear and quick answers! If other ministers fail to fulfill their responsibility, it is in the position of prime minister. We should not wait until the information supply becomes a problem, and distrust begins to develop and demand to call a secretary for the Council's Committee to give clear answers, which three of the new members can do and we have used to a greater degree. In the end, if the Ministers were not doing their part, they'd have to call the prime minister for a administrative and monitoring committee. Instead of going to that unnecessary dance, I would like to try to ask the prime minister 15 minutes to start a conversation about the government's intelligence straight away to the General Assembly. The box of discussion is that members of the Parliament are provided with information that they truly need in order to carry out their legal role. It's not like today, and it has to be fixed. So I ask if the prime minister has 15 minutes left for me or the first part next week to start the conversation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u8	Mr. President. Thank you. An interesting question for a senator. He asks me firstly if I have 15 minutes for him. I've always got 15 minutes to go. Senator, I don't know if he wants them in this room or in personal, but they are mine. [[Up front.]] As for the information present, I'd like to say, because of what. A senator says that it is at any given time responsible prime minister that other ministers give information, that we must arrange that the government of Iceland is not multi-organized government, and our law on ministers responsibility assume that each minister is responsible for his cause, while prime minister has a role in coordination. So I have to think of it as the highest. Ministers are individually responsible for the information they provide, and they are, of course, given to their best awareness. However, the role of prime minister is to take the lead in making the frame the most clear. I want to agree with what. A senator, our demand for information, has been transformed by social change. It's a very different reality than it was ten years ago, as I actually came to my policy debate. We need to adapt to that reality, including the fact that we are living in it. That's why I asked for a report from a staff for the advancement of trust. One of the key proposals is that the Council takes away a policy for information. That's what we'll do. Enlightenment has begun. Part of the review will be made, or I will make it my suggestion, that the Allied and Court will submit to information laws that they do not hear today, and that we look to Norway, which has, however, the most advanced information legislation. My belief is that despite the progress that has been made in information and information legislation, we have work to do on these resources so that we can be considered to be doing what I think is best. There, I have looked especially at Norway.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u9	Mr. President. There's a lot of pleasure in the budget and an unusual failure that still contributes, even though there is something that does it. Of course, we need to discuss it further, and this is not as best chosen, but priority seems to reflect the ideas the government has given them. All right, we'll get better into it. When I watch this year's budget bill, like last year and meet a year, there is always one factor that stands out as a major uncertainty factor that concerns you, and it's just a dollar. She's one of our biggest uncertainties. It seems that several percent of a flutter on the crown can undermine the financial situation, as before. I wonder: " Why don't we just stop doing this? The maintenance of the crown in the present form is some kind of ethnic mascism. We don't do any favors with it. This is a huge example of how doing things differently than doing things in any other way makes it difficult for us to do things for ourselves. Where the highest. Prime Minister's affairs are held at the National Bank of Iceland. I'd like to know if she's planning to take some steps to reduce the instability and inconsistency of the Icelandic kroner, thus trusting both the financial and the economy in its entirety. It's a matter that comes up on a regular basis. The analysis has been completed, and the latest analysis seems to indicate that there is a poor understanding of the nature of the insurance that is largely present in our system, but there are large defects on it. I haven't seen any diagnostics that match reality yet. Can we get a little better currency or, at least, a better arrangement?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u10	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. I took it because he spoke of us as having no diagnostics that were in harmony with reality. Then I recall the words of an economist that I know who said economists were actually theologians of our time, they were merely predicting things out of faith and basic expectations. I see an economist in the room looking at me with a hard look right now. But for all laughs, I'd like to answer the question. The senator's decision is to leave the Icelandic crown, so it's not my religion. Living through the existing analyses, it has been pointed out that the practical option is to walk in the European Union and adopt euro, which I think is a much larger decision than it applies solely to the money policy. Other forms of interaction that have been mentioned, and I mention there to form a currency scheme which has been specifically named in this room, I don't believe. I don't have time to go on it, but I hope I'll have a question about it later, if I'm lucky. It is important, however, that we strengthen the framework of our money policy, just as it is. Senator. These are three factors: the employment market, the government budget, the money policy. How can we strengthen our money policy? We have a comprehensive report of proposals, including the following: the real estate team as part of the consumer science number, suggested that it be taken out. It is suggested that financial stability begin to play a larger role in the management of money policy. It suggests that it will be equivalent to an inflation goal, which is a discussion that I think we will take better at the council scene, whether we consider it a reasonable option. In any case, there is a possibility that I will suggest changes in Iceland's Federal Bank where a vote will be made to strengthen the framework of the money policy. On the other hand, we should be aware that at the scene, we will be discussing the suggestions given by a committee appointed by the former government to review the money policy so that we will receive the material discussion that I feel is a cause. A senator calling for it. [[The president calls.]] I would like to ask for an opportunity to explain the results of that report to the president for that discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u11	We don't have time for that right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u12	V.E.G. President. It is a pleasure to see the emphasis on a new budget, since the emphasis is clearly on needed infrastructure planning. It is a song that predicts less economic growth and thus a fine opportunity for the public to give the injection in a handsome way. The process of paying off debt and losing interest continues. We see evidence of a vigorous growth in basic health, education, and transportation systems at the same time as the necessary aims of maintaining economic benefits achieved in maintaining the level of capital gain achieved by a more reasonable economy. I encourage it to the highest. The future prime minister, while continuing to continue his movement, does not allow economic stability to continue in the course of structure that we are clearly on. Strength in economic management and continued debt subsidies are the means of maintaining the stability of the present situation. We come strong from most of the rules we make. This is positive, allowing for continued activity and space to keep the weak in mind and to hold that group. In the financial bill on this subject, we see a number of measures in equal proportion. We can talk about child reforms and changes in growth. There's a huge contribution into the housing business. We're talking about 25.5 billion. They're working on the interaction of reform systems and tax systems. There's more revenue than there are in many places. Now we face the question of how far we want to go in it. Is this, perhaps, the question of how dramatic an equation must be in order to make peace in this society? That's a big question I'd like to cast here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u13	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. It's a big question. How even does it take for us to talk about the equation? Although we are considered to be highly balanced in international context, we also know that we have groups who have low wages and are struggling to make ends meet. I can discuss it with a micro-energy pensioner, I can name a section of the elderly, and I can name those of the lowest wage in this society, those in the lowest tox of 300,000 dollars. In a year where such wages are extremely difficult to bring forth. That's why I say it's important what we're doing when it comes to making child reforms and personality discounts. This is most beneficial to those with the lowest income. It's like a coven. Senator, commander. Social Affairs, then, points out in the discussions that we need to take a complete discussion on pay development in this community. There has been much discussion about the pay decisions made by top officials, and it is important that we also discuss this with the pay decisions related to government leaders but also to executives on public markets. It's a big, big discussion we have to have in this room. Despite the fact that as I say income equations are high in international context, we feel that it is not very comfortable with the community's salary development. That's serious, because we're about to go into collective agreements where it's really important that we get together on certain factors. What can governments do? There are contracts on the market. There I have been speaking of government efforts by taking special note of the largest groups in terms of taxes and reforms. It's important, but it's also a matter of justice when it comes to the work environment of the people I talked about here, the lowest paid people in the community who often work in an environment where we see social subsidies and environment that are really not in order at all. [[The president calls.]] That's where we can do better.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u14	A respectable president. There's a lot of talk about earning a lot of money here. I'm going to say that I'm really happy with the budget bill that's already there. Clearly, it is a will to attend through infrastructure, especially when we consider health care regarding Land Hospitals ▪ College Hospital and that site. V.E.G. At the outset, the prime minister mentioned his talk about young people's spiritual problems and said that they wanted to commit suicide. However, the reason for this trend in society is never mentioned. Why are our children so unhappy? Why were nearly 30 people dead after the middle of the year because of drug abuse, opioids, morphine-related drugs? What's in it now? It's closing down the Council of Akureyri, costing 19 million. K. Yeah, it's supposed to be 25 million. K. To help us cope with the woes of our young people, our children, have such suicidal thoughts. 25 million, think about it, this isn't even for the baddest type of a basement apartment in Reykjavík today. But it's supposed to be enough. I say, isn't the setting of priorities a little sad when we look at the facts that speak to us? What can be done? Shall we accept this, chief? Prime Minister? As we go further into the fall, may we expect to give a little attention and seriously accept the position we face today?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u15	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this question. First, I want to say that I felt that I was being done a little bit more than usual at the highest level. Secretary of health to step forward to 25 million. K. contributes to the suicide prevention programme. This is not the only result of mental health or mental health problems. I mentioned the matter of mental health especially because they weigh heavily on the budget. It accounts for 650 billion. K. to apply the procedure adopted by the General for four years in a mental - health program. You see, it is a big matter, and we need to discuss it, not just according to the reaction of the health system to such spiritual distress, but also as to what we can do to prevent such spiritual distress. I believe that we can and should discuss prevention and human health to a much greater extent at the council and how we can prepare our young people a strong social environment, such as ... intheschools. This was to make a big issue in the 2011 textbook that the well - being of young people was directly part of preschool, elementary school, and high school. It's a big deal. Because of what I want to say about health care. There is also another aspect to be mentioned by a member of the body of elders. I mentioned the cost of patients. We have now seen a new agreement with dentists because of the dental costs of the elderly and the desperate. I know it's the highest. A health minister is interested in continuing to do the work to help reduce this burden and reduce the number of services they need. Of course, the construction of a land hospital weighs heavily, such as water. A senator mentioned, but it is also a matter of spending money in the care of hospitals and clinics. It also looks to health centers throughout the country, since health services cannot be just in the capital area. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It is also important to secure better health care abroad.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u16	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for problems with the answers. Perhaps it would be appropriate to look inside a little bit, where we were in our last term, which was a reason to reduce the income of the state's budget by 21 billion dollars. by lowering the bank tax by 63% at the cost of 7 billion? We all know what the nation's affection for that system is, as it did for us in 2008. Was it worth reducing the lower level of the tax system by 1%, which cost us 14 billion? We're talking about 21 billion. So this one percent supposed to be the best of low wages doesn't give half a month's pizza. Now, too, there is talk of giving in person. I'm going to thank the highest. Prime Minister for stating here that it was being reduced by about 1% over the legal index increase in consumption price of 3%. That's the first time I've ever heard it and it was here. I like it because the weather has kept me up that it was just treating low - paying people very much and increasing the personal discount of 4%, which was naturally just part of the truth. When we can reduce our entrance into the state fund so clearly by 21 billion without it benefiting those whom it would rather have been if we had kept this in prison, 21 billion on the problem we now face in connection with addiction, illness, spiritual problems and feelings - I say: Wow, what I would have wanted to have them here to use in behalf of those who need it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u17	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator back there. But I must have to explain this position a little. The financial program describes a total of 14 billion allows for a reduction in income taxation. However, in the financial bill we now address, the action is proposed, in line with the government's declaration, which is related to the review of CREEP agreements in spring, to be spent on this occasion on child improvement, to increase in personality discounts as I reviewed earlier, as well as a reduction in insurance fees. On the other hand, there are measures that we believe are relevant to the busiest citizens in the community and, on the other hand, to improve the availability of jobs into future labour agreements, especially SMEs, since there is the best way they can be paid. So here we are not lowering the income tax, although the amount of space we expect in a financial plan is equivalent to a 1% decrease in the lower level of income tax. Then I'd like to say that this year's decrease in bank tax, which is also not being discussed, but expected in a financial programme, that we also need to analyze, and that work is going on, there is evidence that the cost of our national banking system is greater than in any other bank system in the North countries. And who pays the cost? Don't you think that's probably a higher population than any other country in the North? Therefore, we have requested that the committee who is supposed to submit to us a white book on the financial system that we hope to discuss before Christmas should produce in November if all goes along, provide an analysis to determine whether a decrease in bank tax could make a difference in reducing interest to the public in the country. It is also a huge biography if the costs in the banking system are part of the reason that interest is higher than in other places. That's probably not the only reason, though, for we make a very rich demand for a strong amount of money in Icelandic banks. It's a policy that I believe has made it very important to us in terms of financial stability. We need everything we need when we discuss this. This is what I simply want to put in this context because of a bad word. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u18	A respectable president. It may not be surprising that I'm not going to criticize the highest level. Prime Minister for failing to raise government spending sufficiently. What is quite clear that in today's budget, there are certainly some ambitions in various important tasks and priorities similar to the last government, putting the welfare and health systems in full priority in structure. What I miss, however, in government's expeditation, this waste management, is that there is no confidentiality, there is no really a way to assess the results of the expansion that is being called, which is unprecedented, I would say. Because if there's a financial secretary's plan, we'll raise national spending for each country by less than a fifth of the financial budget. I don't think that happened in the latter time, on solid prices, that there's an increase in government spending. That's why I miss results, for example. of increased health costs. What is the result of reducing a waiting list or doing better in the ministry, that patients are actually benefiting from it, because we still hear reports of great courtings, even those outside the field of action that could be carried out here, but it is possible to take care of places where the government does not seem to approve of it, and it seems, in fact, that our health systems are being seriously compromised. In many places, these materials may be exposed. This is so that there is not always a guarantee of success in increasing expenses, and it is certainly vital after as much expansion as we have been, when we look at a 200 billion tax increase in the budget in the last five years, that it must be looked at what this has done and where we can do better. I greatly miss the leadership of the prime minister for this government, the importance of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u19	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this comment on a lack of council. But I can't exactly agree with it. What we see is that interest costs have dropped dramatically because the emphasis has been placed on subsiding debt. So did the last government and the last one. In effect, this trend has survived since collapse, here has been a targeted effort to reduce the interest rate of Kingdom funds that reached a limit in the years following collapse because all governments that have been sitting since collapse have been very determined to repair the economy. What has been lacking in my knowledge, however, is that economic prosperity, which we have both had because of rational action, which has been widely discussed on a global scale, but also because of the growth of tourism and other growths in other exports, has become available into this social structure. We must look to it as the highest. The secretary of finance repeatedly pointed out that we may not necessarily be seeing the relative growth of expenses as we view him as a percentage of income. Of course, because the cake has grown, there is growth in expenses. You're absolutely right at the highest. Minister. I believe, however, that the priorities we are doing are being used in a much clearer way. I named the equation action I believe is part of the budget bill. I think it's because of what. A senator brings up specific health issues, and I think it is good for us to have an opportunity to discuss them only at the highest level. A health minister later arrives here today, saying that this is exactly where health policy is being developed. There is a shortage of tax dollars as organized as possible. I know a completely comparable example from my time at the Ministry of Education and Culture, where it really matters so much that when we are, for example, buying from the service that it is very clear what the need is, that it is defined by the state, what the need to buy a service, that there is a clear set of quality when buying such a service. [[The president calls.]] I believe there was a lot of work at the Ministry of Education when it came to dealing with private people, because of that. A senator pointed to a particular education that was in a very clear frame. [[The president calls.]] I think it should just be a joy for all of us that we are making wise use of public funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u20	President. The government is always boasting about results that have always been repeated, i.e. If we look to the history of the past three decades, for example, and although further back, governments have always paid off debts in these circumstances, handsome. The debt was paid down in 1995 to be handsomely handsome. The debt was paid in a very handsome way in 2003How would you describe the death of a loved one? But for some reason it will always come back, for the mismanagement of the government was also complete in the same period of time, and the increase in spending is still greater, it is unprecedented in this context. It gives a little thought to what has been a total shortage of government economic policies in Icelandic society. It's not just this government, it's been marking governments over the last few decades. The cost is high in interest. Its cost is an unyielding dollar, a currency. The cost is high inflation. In the end, all of this takes the most advantage of the earners. These are the people who are going to be the hardest out here in these vast swings. It's going to say "A" to the top. Prime Minister primary news about the Federal Bank. The results of the spring financial policy committee were clear, with 11 suggestions for possible improvement in current financial policies, confident that they could work according to the rules of law. At the same time as the government, these changes, to bring them into the council, violate the same guidelines that are always called after work is done. The increase in expenses has never been the same. It has never been so handsome in the economic situation that today the government has been and has continued in this time of government. This has never worked out for us in the economy, and I don't believe that there is any change now. It is true that, in some respects, the economy is solid in the legs, but for a decade ago, it is true that we have got a new profession called travel service, but it also clearly shows how this economic instability that we are today, a high rate of success, a high level of expansion, has the same profession. In the past five years, we are crushing the foundation of the economy. [[The president calls.]] We've done this before. And obviously we're going to do it again.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u21	Mr. President. Hv. A senator talks about the history of the past 30 years. I'm just gonna point it out. A senator said that there has been a radical change in the way we are organized by public spending. This radical change has occurred in the past ten years, since collapse. Where different governments have come into play, including with the code on public financial matters and what we all agreed on in here, although we did not agree precisely on the rules set into Article 7. The law, all of us agreed that we needed to improve the planning of the state. A financial program with certain measurable targets is now being developed, and this is a complete change in how we organize Kingdom spending. Hv. Of course, a senator was not here when this law was passed, but it has completely changed how government spending is defined. Annual reports of recruitment were published yesterday in which the use of funds can be considered. I think we've been in a lot of work with working much better on the planning of the state budgets. [[Up front.]] It is a real conference and success, and I also want to testify that it is very important that the State sets just a clear goal, discerns the needs of money before money is destroyed. I gave an example from the Ministry of Education from earlier times that yielded real results in that matter and transformed university quality control and quality management, a targeted investment in creative, research, and innovations that are now developing into increasing think generation. So what? A senator may want to consider it more carefully before accusing the individuals mentioned here that he has failed to show openness in the treatment of public funds. The exact same work is being done on health issues and on the other issues, where policy and investment are important in real economic matters. This government has set it up to invest more in innovation and knowledge industry. Why is she going to do that? It's a huge economy. It's a huge economy, and we've got a more broad range of support for the economy. It is a real economic policy for a small economy that needs a wide range of support, and it is clearly seen on today's numbers that have made a difference. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u22	Mr. President. There's two things I just want to talk to the highest. Prime Minister. First of all, there are funding to the government but there are 635 million in this bill. There is an increase of 175 million between 2018 and 2019 years. It is such that the development of government assistants is striking. No government has ever had so many political helpers. The cost of assistants has never been so much of it today. This accounts for some 430 million each year. That's a lot of money. If we put that amount in perspective, it would be enough to increase the annual pay of all 280 to over 350 active midwives by 1.5 million. K. So I want to ask the highest. Prime Minister: Is it impossible to survive with fewer helpers? A former prime minister, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, arrived e.g. Well, well with one assistant. Has the highest. Prime Minister of the government urged to have as few political assistants as possible? Then I'd like to step in on what a minister said just before about making wise tax dollars. Of course, it's about that, but there's another group of paintings I'd like to mention, but I see that due to the time, I'll figure it out later.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u23	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator in particular for a good question. What's going on in this budget bill is that it's getting funding to the pay of helpers for benefits. What has been done in recent years is an estimate for a certain number of assistants in the budget bill. Since then, more helpers have been hired than has been expected in the budget bill, and this has added to the budgets later, although such costs cannot be considered unpredictable. I knew, of course, that I would be criticized for making that cost clear for the first time, but I have no faith in the fact that I am involved in moving to reduce the actual cost in the face of a budget. I think that's what we're talking about. Senators should welcome that. Here's the numbers on paper, like they look. You're right next door. There has been an increase in the number of helpers. There was a significant increase in the number of patients between e.g. in 2016 and 2017, first from 16 to 21 and then from 21 to 24. It is assumed in these budgets that all Ministers can hire the relief workers who are expected to be in the law. They're not new, I have to tell you. A senator. They were approved when I last sat in the government, the government of the Left Green and the Conspiracies. Then there was suggested to increase the number of helpers so that all ministers would have two assistants and the government would have three joint helpers. As the situation is now, all the ministers, as far as I know, have two helpers, and the government has two of the three helpers who can be hired by law. But why was this done? Yes, the report by the General Assembly Commission specifically discussed that it was important for the Ministry or Ministers to have a stronger political backland within their councils. That was why the change was submitted at that time, in the government law, and why I supported it. This was considered important after the much discussion of the report that ministers had a stronger political backland. [[The president calls.]] However, it is very important that the cost is all on board in the most transparent way possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u24	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. The prime minister for this passage, agreeing that with this bill, we seem to be having a good deal of business with the state. But I'd like to put more emphasis on what was going on with the environment and on their contributions, on what is going on with us. I've been looking at this a little bit because I'm late at this, or slow, as it were. I've felt that the policy in these matters is to face this CO2-holskelle, a little bit ridiculous, because we haven't got the whole picture, of course. First of all, the cars are taken first, but then when you see a disk, it's a charge from the eviction of the ground even 72% but the cars there's 4%. I don't think it's a bit irresponsible to have an operation like this without the overall picture being clear. But then I'm told we have to start somewhere. I can agree with that, and I will not belittle the worsening of my situation. But I also notice, because we're talking about young people's health, that they're worried about this because they're saying that because we have to hand them over the earth as we took it. They must also know what they are taking. [[The president calls.]] We must not frighten them too much during this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u25	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for recording climate issues here. I appreciate the opportunity to talk to them because, as I said before, I think this is one of the biggest projects we have, even though we will not see the results of this terms. Hv. A senator here gives an important aspect that is being addressed with the very plan we presented on Monday, i.e. that much of this strategy is just the recovery of wetlands, land transplants, and forestry in order to prevent emissions from the land and also to actually bind more carbon. That's where I see that we're not just gonna be working with a professional agency in this area, but hopefully we can get farmers working all over the country on this project with us. I would particularly like to think that sheep farmers have taken the initiative in this discussion and that farmers should be key workers in this great project. Hv. A senator notes that the cars may not be a major part of this, but we certainly need to consider the emissions of greenhouse gases that depend on our country books. It's a bit of a peculiar image where flights and industry are in international emissions accounting, and then there's another disposal manual that we've attached to the country. That's where the cars weigh a lot. We thought that this was a good first step to cope with reducing the burning of greenhouse gases. While governments can make a big difference simply by building wood, we see a trend toward 20% for making up new automobiles in Iceland is cars that do not cover gas and mollusks. It's climate-friendly cars. The connection is clearly this way. Hv. A senator says he is reluctant, which I am now not sure he is, but it is reasonable to ask himself questions about these matters. We both see that in the coming years, the cost of the electricity cars will go down and that their cost of operating will be much lower, despite the fact that people pay a number of expenses to support the road system. [[The president calls.]] This could also become a major economic reform for the families of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u26	V.E.G. President. In short, I explain key points of the bill to the 2019 budget in terms of the four topics that represent me as the sole or partial minister of the year. Again, it is the travel service that takes on most of the scope of the cost increase that falls on the topic fields. The same was true in current budgets. This is only natural, for we are still pursuing tremendous growth, even though it has been possible for the past few years to improve our understanding of the subject. The budget is rising almost 10% from the last budget, which, of course, is considerably. We strengthen the bill of a travel agency to enable her to care for new assignments entrusted to her by law from spring. The new projects are mainly in the field of research and data collection that all agree on the need to expand and improve. Among other projects we finance are the ability to perform the tourism service, the security project Safety Travel, that the Landsbourg works largely, a toilet parking position on the highways of the country, and temporary efforts to monitor short-term tenets on apartments in order to enforce the laws and regulations that apply to such rents. The largest single budget for the topic sector, the travel - transport fund, is combined between years and years, which should be associated with the expansion of the Environment Ministry's Environment Management Plan on building in order to protect nature and cultural pressures from tourism. At the top. Environment Ministers introduced earlier this year to a major initiative in the development of the infrastructure carried out by two tools, the Agency fund and the national programme. It's a good idea for them to be introduced together, because they are closely related, although their priorities and values are different. The budget of the topic area, innovation, research, and fields of knowledge is growing slightly from the last budget. The biggest news on innovation, however, is not seen in the numbers of the next year, for it involves a dramatic rise in reimbursement from research and development, which will apply right away in the next year to projects carried out at 2019, which are said to be done by the executives, but the effects on financial funds are not seen until the following year, i.e. 2020. In a government contract, the government proclaimed that the roof would be removed, and there will be the first step. This is a large interest issue for a innovation company and a significant increase in Iceland's competitiveness when it comes to the working environment of these companies. According to this, it is proper to make a major report on a decline that will result in the payment of the seminary. Overassessments of the Management Board on Administrative Management Systems are corrected by nearly 170 million, which, of course, does not include a loss of donations from the state funds, nor does it think that the Agency has less in charge than before. More than 100 million film reimbursements are dropped, more than 100 million are dropped because training aid to the plant on Backwater is complete, over 100 million away from transport services in the current year are going back to that sector and less than 70 million are explained by the completion of a three - year electrical campaign that is now being carried on by the Environment Minister and the Government. It should be noted, then, that the effort for commercial development that has taken place continuously since 1996 and has had less than 70 million a year for provision has recently been completed, and much of it has been taken over by technological development funds. I've told you before, and again, the jury isn't just about expenses. We are, for example. To begin ambitious work with the representatives of all members of the Parliament to shape the new creation policy in Iceland, as required in the government contract. It will be one of our most important tasks, even though it does not cost a lot of money. The same can be said for energy products. Many of the most important projects involved in policy development of new routes and solutions while most of the expenditures are directly linked to legal projects. Work in the long-term energy policy with the arrival of all members is to be considered first, but there are also a number of problems for the treatment, such as how to secure the energy security of a global market, an analysis of the cost of land cables, the balance of electrical distributions, and triunes and energy security of the individual parts of the country. The budget will not be changed for marketing, but there will also be a very important project ahead. In particular, I would like to mention cooperation with OECD on competitive employment assessments aimed at ensuring that laws and rules do not include unnecessary rules and competition and, secondly, a project on simple regulations where a good analysis has already taken place on which to build the next step. A respectable president. I look forward to having a conversation with the World Congress about all the important issues that have been touched on a large scale.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u27	Mr. President. As mentioned in the previous talks, much is interesting in these budgets and a number of things that are about to begin with. Tourism, innovation and industrial minister end up a wide set of cases, or a case group to have it right. There are positive things there, but, of course, things are not as positive as they always are. V.E.G. The importance of innovation has been emphasized by the prime minister in his policy debate and the importance of responding quickly to it in order to gain an advantage. In addition, professionals, such as the Industrial Association, have been called quite strong after the State's support of innovation, their report on Iceland's competitiveness, by permission of a president: With innovation, ideas are converted to valuables and, at the same time, lead to competition, within the country and outside. Unfortunately, in this bill it seems crystalting that this is not a innovation government. Despite much mention of innovation and a worthwhile goal, the financial contributions to the Judicial Minister of Neoplasms are cut down by less than 9%, as the Supreme Court does. Minister came in before himself. Of course there are explanations, but I can't believe it to the highest. Minister is particularly pleased with this cuts to the jury. In addition, although there is a significant increase in scientific and competitive funds in research, there is also a cut-off at the Ministry. Minister. Wouldn't this financial bill be rather an opportunity and a reason to give in handsome? So I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: How does she picture achieving the goals of the group set out and meeting the high expectations of increased innovations and the growth of patents in the country?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u28	Mr. President. As I briefly explained in my speech, there are good explanations of this reduction, e.g. Less than 170 million who's overrated Iceland's Management Board, that's just correction. This is an institution that has never received this income, and it has never been made available, so it is not a cut-off but a correction of an over-explanment of the Agency's expectations. That's perfectly clear. More than 100 million are due to the collapse of training aid on Backka. I don't regret it. I like it all over. Then we've got nearly 70 million on the electrical infrastructure, but we're going to continue, and it's headed for the government Action Programme, building infrastructure for electric cars, which will trigger another location, and an energy fund will probably be assigned to import and work. I feel the expectations and especially the ones in this sector who are very much in the community. I believe that we will live up to that expectations. Of course, the innovation policy is a key factor. There we will allow ourselves to look at things over again, look at the system as it is, and see what the guidelines are, what the goals are, and then have the courage to change what needs to be changed. Not to be overlooked is the raising of the reimbursement, which is, in fact, what all these parties put at the top of their list, to get this reimbursement for research and development. This will be true for them for their work in 2019, although they will not be exposed to government funds until 2020. This is the perfect key. At that rise and innovation, which is to be completed in spring and then to be seen with certain proposals and adjustments to the next budget, I have high hopes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u29	Mr. President. There are great opportunities for growth, especially with further activation of intelligence and innovation. The chapter on innovation, competition, and knowledge shows three objectives and five measures to support the development of employment on the basis of innovation. They are very valid, as I mentioned earlier, and the same procedure was true even though I personally might have wanted to go somewhere else and to look elsewhere. It's like the highest. A minister entered is exactly spoken of in one of the operations of the Neo-creation policy and its actions. It is, in fact, there. The revised environment of innovation, innovation support systems, the impact of knowledge fields, the development of sectoral development, etc. Work is started like the highest. A minister entered and determined that it would be completed in exactly 2019 C.E. So I'd like to ask the highest question. Minister: Does it envision significant changes in the musculoskeletal systems of innovation and employment with new innovation policies? Would it not be reasonable to assume that some cost would be due? There is always some expense in making changes that, in turn, make more money. Then I'd also like to ask, because I'm here for a little while, about contributions to Technical Development Fund. They are drawn together about 45 million. K. or less than 2%, which similarly shoots somewhat crooked, in view of all the support of innovation. Action two is just an estimate of the results of the technology fund and shape its greater role. How's the top? A minister for the sake of increasing the role of Technologies at the same time that contributions are cut down? Similarly, the fund itself has pointed to and noted how few applications are received outside the capital area. How does a minister see himself trying to deal with this?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u30	Mr. President. I'll just say again that I don't have a problem with the money of innovation. I believe we'll be able to win policy so we're going into some system changes that will allow us to move forward without costing extra funds. On the other hand, if there are specific suggestions that may require extra funding, it is something that will appear in a possible financial programme or following it at the council on how we handle the taxpayers' budget. Part of what needs to be thought and is part of a job in innovation policy, for example. The question: Is it too complicated? Can we simplify this? Is access to foreign experts sufficiently high? Is it too much trouble for them to come here? Can we lighten up with all of that in order to get more fermentation in this country? Part of what people call for is that they need more experts in various activities, research, and development. That is exactly what we have decided to do, research, and development. A small country such as Iceland will not be able to be outstanding in all the chains of the chain, and we have a post in the past few years that we are going to be strong where there is a difference. The reason for the development of technology has grown dramatically over the past few years. But that's right, that handler is there, like anywhere else. It's a government policy and it's been in the past few years. I don't see anything wrong with the fact that there's a equal system mask on the system in general. We are then on the Constitution of a so-called National Fund. The idea has been that we could possibly use some of it in innovation. It's going to be replaced. It's an example of a new project that really matters how it's done and how it's done, but it's possible to invest just in innovations, which are absolutely key, not only for a town to create valuables but also for the government, that we're investing in people who have good ideas to help us solve the challenges we face, e.g. in the health system. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u31	Mr. President. The budget shows an increase in donations for tourism by 200 million, an increase of 9.5%. It is very important to discuss a particular role in the context of the importance of tourism tolerance. There is a report ready early in 2018 on the limit of endurance and access control for tourism. According to the bill for financing on continuing work, the analysis of tolerance and now by the tourism agency is moving on to a travel agency's headquarters. I want to pray to the highest. Travel minister to explain how this work is to be carried out and where to pursue it. Understated. Travel ministers are also market agencies in part of the country. They are as if everyone knows very important for the development of tourism outside the capital. This is part of our geographic policy. They are likely all asking for higher donations in contracts with a travel agency. It is indicated in the bill that they should continue to support the good - looking people, and then the question is, How is it going to be done? You might explain the purpose, the amount of money that goes into it from the 200 billion. K. pots and how we can improve support for the development of tourism in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u32	Mr. President. First only on research, data collection and tolerability. Work has so far been done here and there, rather random, depending on where money comes from and where it comes from. In fact, those who have been studying over the past few decades have always criticized that policy needs to do so. I agree with that. When men planned a long-term conference in 2015, it was found that this was not possible because of the lack of data. A management center has taken it a little over and has done very well at the travel board where there are only one place many data and is still working to increase them and develop the dashboard to make it a major phenomenon of tourism data. I've been talking about little Merri. I mean, we planted that seed at the Control Center. Now it's moved into a tourist lab where it's supposed to belong, where we put the data supply and add more data, and then it's a research project. The idea is to continue using the powers of those who have been studying but that is a policy at the Agency. There are also stakeholders and others who have something to say in order to determine the type of research to be done. They will now formally bear that responsibility on January 1, under the law, but the work has begun. A powerful person has been hired who will hold this and other employees who will care for it. I have high hopes for that, and I think we'll see in time how important it is to have good data and research in this industry, just as we have in other basic forms of work based on much of the use of limited resources. With the market offices, I'll have to enter it in a second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u33	Mr. President. Thank you very much. A minister for the answers and, of course, rejoices that this work is being developed and strengthened by policy-making and access control. It is very important to speed it up and finish these policies so that there are some guidelines and rules and other factors that are quite clear. They're already working on this kind of project. It's Silra in the Þingra. In some respects, it may be doing certain initiatives that might be important in this regard. I just want to come up with another question to the highest level. Minister, since I have time, it's about little mechanics. It should be examined in particular so-called micro-inducers, i.e. Reinforces below ten megawatts. I'd like to mean that they activate, let's say between five and ten megawatts, could have considerable environmental impact. Therefore, it is very important to assess the environmental effects of such inducers, which are now excluded. I'd like to know if it's the highest. Even if this is not relevant to the government's financial affairs at this time, a minister agrees with me.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u34	Mr. President. First, to answer about the market agencies, I have said that their work is very important. There is a key between the state and, for example, a key. Company, as well as the companies in the market. What we have been considering and, of course, is always an opportunity to do. It matters to them that it is the right thing to do. I'm sure it can be done even better. Of course, the so-called DMP work, the destination plans, is in the market and has been doing pretty well, but it's going to finish it properly. You will then have to keep up with all the community planning, etc. Cooperation with my community is also something that I believe will make things even richer in the future. What's very slightly reversed about the market rooms is that they are very different. This may be part of what will happen in the coming years, whether we should somehow try to harmonize it, but it is always a challenge because in some respects, it is self - induced, and you also do not want to take over something that is self - righteous and works as it does. But the team's been going well. It's time to sign a contract with all the market agencies. Of course, the stress and tolerability ratings are very exciting projects that are important to your well - being. We've been working on it within the Control Center, and, of course, this report. Consider the case of Silra. We're always talking about the lack of control. It is taking all kinds of steps within parks and elsewhere to steer. But we may have to start running for some bigger place and put the whole thing to the test, too, to run into obstacles. Then we may be able to consider how to correct what can be a model for us to do this elsewhere. In terms of the microindustries, I believe that they are important, they can help, both for the system and for farmers. But I completely agree that the idea is, of course, that these are microinvolved. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Men are on the verge of going to 9.9 megawatts, and I don't think it's unusual for them to consider the goals of the rules to be out of the way of others more strict demands. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u35	Mr. President. A secretary of innovation's operation is to simplify a regular work in the interests of the economy. Now I think there's some explanation for what this is because it's extremely important as I've traced a few interviews earlier, that the company's work environment will be improved. There are a number of challenges that are getting in the way of people who want to go into business. At all levels of employment, there is an opportunity to facilitate companies, founders and professionals. But there has been very little evidence of real suggestions and measures in that direction. It is, therefore, a pleasure to see this particular procedure under the circumstances. Minister, but I feel that there's some kind of explanation for what we can expect. Is this just a matter of state-of-the-art change? Is there legal bills or what? In this context, it may be appropriate to mention that enterprises are generally not very high in Iceland. There are, of course, companies that are very advanced in technology, but the companies that are very close to basic research are very many. There has been a great need to make the work environment easier for more companies to get more into product development and production of more valuable products. I'd love to hear what's best. Minister's going to do this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u36	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for interesting questions and speculations. That's right, I'm putting so much emphasis on such simplicity. It can be both, of course, that we're simply dismissing some regulations, and hopefully that'll include me coming in here with some sort of bandorm, where we'll change the law, that's the law bill that takes a little longer. An electronic administration is a major factor in this. What I would like to see is that it is simply much easier for people and businesses to interact with the State, and it meant people and my business to be concerned with which part of that institution is, permission or demands or what, but rather, they sent people and businesses into some window and then it's state to find out where they live. These are things that I think are important, that we are actually shorting time, cutting down hours, and reducing trouble for people, which also increases public effectiveness. I also feel that it is time for us to go through very carefully and thoroughly all the demands, and I say the obstacles we have. Often there are legitimate reasons for the obstacles, and we do not want them to be removed, but we need to be aware of their presence. The OECD project is part of it, where we are going to take care of the construction industry from the fact that a person or a person will be assigned to land until it is finished. So do you. This is a travel service career. This can then be transferred to other layers. With regard to the basic research and technology, this technical transfer office, which is working on trying to meet this problem exactly. We know of a lot of research in the university and elsewhere, but we also know that we can do much better to transfer that knowledge so that it can progress and that we can become more valuable from this knowledge.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u37	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for this. True, removing regulations, bringing an alliance, could mean anything. It would be interesting to learn more about the specific actions that humans are taking into consideration. Of course, electronic management is good, and it is wonderful that it will be easier for companies to interact with the State. Of course, I think that everyone can agree on the advantages of trying to reduce the amount of work time and trouble for people. That's totally great. Could we talk about some actual konkotic surgery, for example? to reduce the cost of corporate founding, to reduce the budget requirements, to improve the regular work so that pioneers don't necessarily have to pay their market wage if they themselves are corporate owners? Is it possible to add, condensed, even united with some competitive treasure? There are so many things you can do to make the entire business much easier in Iceland and there's a need to hear some real, crevice ideas about what to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u38	Yes, we two Ministers at the Ministry of pro-evaluation are designed to form working to get outsiders to review all that we hear - hopefully it can benefit other councils too, but it's a professional department - just to clean up the rules. There is a database specified, e.g. With regard to all permission and the like, whether or not it's attached to the EEA induction or if it's just something we've created. We want to go through the list completely and pick out what may be done in this regard. For the market wage, there is one thing I've been looking at and open to try to keep working on it. I think this level of fairness could be met by smaller parties, that they didn't have to pay their market salary at a certain time. Whether to combine funds is something that I would consider to be the role of those who come to work at the innovation policy, and that's part of the question: Are all the funds out there in the right place, we can use them better, etc.? When I look at the list of the people who are about to participate in this innovation policy, and why. There's a senator on behalf of Pirata. I'll put high hopes in this course. I think the work on it will be a little different than it has been so far in government policy. I find that very interesting. I'm very excited that we're in some kind of innovation with the Neo-creation policy. The ideas as hell. A senator will be very comfortable at home in that work, and I will take them for suggestions and do my very best to process them vigorously. You see, there are so many things you can do that I suspect is an excellent social agreement. We just need to get ready to do the job. That's why I'm so happy that the work on this policy is about to begin.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u39	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister of industry, innovation, and tourism over the projects. I'm going to enter two seminars that hear a minister and are in the office of responsibility. On the one hand, it is innovation and research that we find in the budget bill on page 18. 234, and then the traveling service on page 24. 289 on the bill. My questions are toward policy development, and of course we are always here in this discussion of improved use and provision of funds. There's gotta be a key in this. With more intensive policy measures, we are always seeking to improve the provision and to receive a more targeted means of money. We set up a management center for tourism, and we had a travel agency. V.E.G. Minister announces that we will promote the work of a travel agency, which is well-being. I think we've set up the travel management center in and along to gain a better view of this very complex and complex environment in which many people and many different employment sectors are involved in building up their tourism. More analysis is required, and especially economic numbers, so that we can assess the economic and economic effects of tourism in our country. How does that work, and where does it go between a travel agency and the travel base?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u40	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a good question. Travel centre was set up 2015 and should run its course 2020. I've stressed that she does, that the operating system will be ready to take over the work and have her job done, which was missing when the command center was started. When she was set up, I was an assistant in another Ministry, and I quite admit I didn't understand the idea, but I've felt that she was absolutely proof of its importance. There they sit ministers who handle a number of cases directly involved in the tourism service. But what we're trying to do right now is just to take the assignments set out at the CP and move them to their final position for now, at least so that the control center can slow down and bite. That's why we put extra funds in a travel agency where we're simply moving money that used to go through the CP to do this data collection and research work. That's the perfect key. We are also working on stress assessment or endurance within the Control Center, where we are trying to assess the pressures of the individual sector, the environment, the economy, and the community. The stage is set for the first phase. Now we're starting another phase. Thus, we have decided that we are going to have at least a maximum speed. The next step is to decide that the maximum speed should be 50, 70, 90 miles [90 km], of course, different by zones. That is, in turn, the basis for the policies we are taking, which are then won in a different way than, for example. The innovation policy because it is where we are going to use the administrative center, which is a cooperative setting to win that course. Of course, a specific guide must be provided by the government, and public and policy must be natural enough to fit that guide. Stress evaluation is a perfect basis for policy work. [[The president calls.]] It's totally holding hands.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u41	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister of clear answers. It is very important to be aware of the role and place of these institutions for the Administration. I can say which word is the highest. Minister. Of course, the key to more efficient policy measures is good and clear analysis work both for understanding and for making decisions about the future with this less significant and important sector of social and economic activities. The new creation is linked with this because when we say that the role of a management center is in and that a summary of this vast industry is referred to in the Government Convention of Public Strategies. I know it's me and the highest. A minister agrees that self - discipline is good and has yielded good results. The project is nothing like that in policies and tourism management centre, i.e. to achieve cooperation, cohesion, and greater success in cooperation. A government contract states that we will work to shape a government cluster policy that I believe was missing. Norwegians have done such things with good results. They have done so with good results. For decades such work has been done in cooperation with European nations. I'd like to ask the minister where that job stands. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u42	Mr. President. I agree with what. A senator said that it is best that this mall work is as self - fueled as possible. It has really been so so far, and it is a trend in that work. This work is referred to in a government covenant. She's working out at the Ministry. Money is taken to get that job and get it done. You can't do anything different than with someone who's already on that project and moving on in it because you feel the power of this cooperation. Our ministry varies according to class, but we also see very clear results from shopping. I expect that job to be held and that it will be the end of this council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u43	Mr. President. Travel services will return one of the highest revenues at national level. I notice reading the budget bill at the expense of the jury, as it is called on the budget bill, is 1/4 percent of the budget. Of course, I am fully aware that there are expenses in many other places, such as transportation, health care, etc. But the tourism service seems to have its own challenges. The arrival of foreign tourists into the country has been slow and has many companies in the article in trouble. It is a challenge for the two large airlines. There are many such factors as the strong gangs of the Crown and the fierce competition of Icelandic tourism. Iceland's competitiveness as its destination has so progressed recently. It has been noted in the media that government services are being carried out to consider the possibility of further payment in tourism. It should be noted that tourism is today the largest currency industry in the country. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister of travel whether it is reasonable in view of the delicate position the tourism seems to be in working on further payment in the article, while coping with difficulties. Also, I would like to ask the secretary of what kind the government has boarded and is scheduled to enter. What kind of currency is that? Is it some kind of natural pass, or a comet or a host tax, or a service charge at a certain tourist resort or something else?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u44	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for good questions and reviews. It is, as I have attributed many times, the entire currency history of all sorts of ideas has become over the years. In many ways it can be said that it should have been done differently than in some respects I think it's part of dealing with extraordinary changed times. For what works now, first of all, there are no suggestions on the government board. The government has not discussed any possible currency options for the tourism service, but a team of workers who represent all members of the CP are working out in about three months, if I'm right. I think the environment is like this now, and I'm sure it will continue, that there's a need to be careful and think about it. Of course, we have a wide variety of currency. Hv. A senator mentions a host tax. He's there. Here's the parking lot. Here are a variety of national and international privileges. When people talk about remuneration, I say: I have no independent goal of getting paid. I'd much rather keep our management projects, the protection of nature, that each area is the most sustainable when it comes to building up infrastructure and activities that they want to see. To me, it's important, e.g. For national parks that they have the tools they need to respond, that there are not too much control from here, and we will please tell them to build guest rooms for 400 million when the situation is that they need 700 million. But the key is to maintain a transparency in the use of such funds and to provide the presupervisability of a business to cope with them. I think there's a whole list of key elements. When it comes to a flash of air, it is something we can handle if it does.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u45	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. For her answer, I'd like to stress that it's not for a reason I'm asking. For many years, governments have been preparing specific and often called receipts for travel services. It must be clear from the government to the future how that currency should be. The majority of the nation's industry is not going to have such insecurity that it is not determined and that it is not a policy for the industry. This is not something that cannot be left out of the air. Rather, it must come up with clear answers. The government has to form and determine if this is to be and how. You can't just lie in the air. I was going to add a few questions, although I may not have time to ask them. For the currency, whatever the way she is going to work, she must be well defined, and she must be supportive of the stress management program as we would like to take care of it for the country. It must also be to improve the quality and service of tourists. Here we came to a study, which has actually been asked a minister. This must be based on studies of some sense, so we know where we are going. I'm going to add one question to the highest level. Minister and it's about the plant. What does the government's work have to do with the preparation of laws in the area of wind power and marine energy?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u46	Mr. President. The aim of the current payer group is to finish the discussion and put a point behind it, although I know well that that dot will not be there forever. I would like to see us reach an acceptable solid agreement to complete this discussion, even if such a payment of normal evolution is possible if it was possible for me to say so. Then, mostly, I'm saying that the goal of payment is clear. The aim is to protect the natural environment, ensure the survival of tourists and the presence of the quality. This means that areas can have the tools they need to build up to protect nature and ensure the survival of tourists. I hope that the group will finish, and then we can begin to get to a greater degree. It has often been said that governments are concerned with nothing more about tourism than wages. That's ridiculous. On the contrary, I think that the longest time I've ever spent in the Ministry is about to consider it. On the contrary, it goes to everything else we've been doing. I'd be the first person to celebrate the completion of this assignment. We're working our course just as fast as possible. A senator mentions. I agree that the red thread through that job is a stress control. That's what's most important to me. For research and telecommunications, and having to go to that with force, I am very happy that the senators are interested in it. It tells me that certain agreements are about the priorities we've been using for the past year, putting much of the space in research and data collection. I look in many ways toward the fishing system as we consider how we need to progress in our tourism, especially when it comes to nature, which is the most important part. [[The president calls.]] With the wind, it's working. It's not on Congress, and it's a partnership between the Environment Minister and me. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u47	Mr. President. We receive nearly daily bad news of most basic commercial roads. There's a minister in his field. I mention, for example, a variety of innovation companies, movie sector, and tourism. The stories have all the same theme: It is very expensive to run a business here in the country, except for the instability caused by the currency. It is expensive for a small sceptical company, for example, to specialize in currency to make reasonably practical plans and to prepare for its inevitable, but also poorly preconceived rhythms on success. The government has spent the first month working in line with its assistance under the old bad left theme of coming in with government support, various subsidies. It is not only bad for not only to address the root of the problem but also bad because it creates problems in the job world, because governments seem to work together the articles that are being helped, even companies that are so valuable to help. In the first round, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of innovation and knowledge: What are the chances of the government working in real terms on the economic environment, providing real solutions to success and real solutions to dizziness high interest costs, instead of small dose healings? I know it's the highest. A minister is not responsible for the answer alone, but as a minister of the Ministry of Professional Affairs and Development should be interested in her. So I narrow down the question and say, "What, if anything, can be read out of the budget as an answer to the threat of a small and promising procrastinator company and a semi-creation firm will or will be forced to take the step of leaving the country in search of a more economic environment? ' Where does the financial bill show that those who cry for help and release are really being listened?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u48	Mr. President. First, I'm going to disagree that we have a really bad environment for a new world. I think the news of the last days has shown that much good things are happening, almost entirely thanks to them and their tireless work. However, governments have also taken steps to improve the environment of the enterprises. It is effective to make a picture if we are looked forward to an increase in competitive funds. Of course, it takes years to see the results of such injections, but I think we're going to watch it. We've raised the roof of reimbursement, research and development. If we ask what government policy is and what we're going to do, we're going to be there. We have decided that we will place special emphasis on being an excellent environment for research and development. It is a reimbursement, as it were, an indiscriminate injury, but it is covered for any kind of activity. A certain species is not being selected. If companies are doing research and development, which is in almost any valuable creation, we want them to be here. Of course, you don't want to see strong companies coming out of the country. In part, that is also normal. All countries are struggling to maintain the environment so that companies can become as bold as possible in their country of origin. We've received a series of delightful reports from these sectors over the last few days. I have full faith that by clear policy, which I hope will bring down some policy document from which we will follow through with action, we will take further steps toward being excellent and having specific factors to offer. We can never offer all the best for everyone, for the entire environment. It's also important to decide where you're going to position yourself in the high chain. It's, for example. for testing and development.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u49	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. It is absolutely true that much has been done, and there are good news. But this does not change the fact that the key aims must be to create a stable environment for an enterprise that can thrive on its own terms and is not dependent on assistance. I am pleased to have a minister say that next year, he should see the budget for 2020 that the roof will be lifted, according to the government contract and has been planned for a long time in another government. But I want to know why it's not right now. It's like the highest. A minister came in earlier is the plan for a company to begin their trip in 2019 to trust that this will enter the bill 2020. I wondered if it would be safe for a company to trust that this will be the economic situation of a year when the government would trust in that journey. I also wondered, " Is there any reason to worry about broken promises? ' I'll remind you, for example. on the government's promises regarding the loan fund of Icelandic students. They have been waiting a long time for promises of reform to be fulfilled. The question is, Why isn't it now? Why? Then I wondered about the National Fund that is supposed to be set up, should it be a swinger for innovation companies and other corporations in the country against the unstable economic conditions that have gone by? I realize that it is more complex for the government to secure the economic environment and aim for the fact that there will be orderliness and interest, than in the long run, would it not be the goal rather than to make a basis for an enterprise to be forced to rely on public assistance in various forms? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u50	Mr. President. First, I'm going to point to a word or two. A senator said that it would be better if such support was not needed. I would show them that in the international environment as well. A senator refers to and we all want to be part of an indiscretion, because the countries compete for our strongest people, to get the people who work to get good ideas and make them valuable. [[Up front.]] I'm a spokesman for making a decision that makes us outstanding, and it's in research and development. Then there are the secondary effects of having a powerful research and development environment that is unconvincing and incredibly high. We can see that, for example. in the fishing road. I think if we look at the market it's rather farfetched to believe that Iceland will be an outstanding figure in that area simply because we're small and few and far away. These are decisions that I think are important to us, but not that we are going to be great at everything. In the case of an increase in the roof, it will take value for the companies in 2019. They can assume that from January 1 through the year, it is reimbursed. This was not done in 2018 because there was no time for it in government exchange, etc. But the effect comes in 2020. Because of what? A senator asks if we could rely on this and what if the premise requires a consideration of all the government expenses, I would say that this is exactly what we would need for such an injection and such an environment to get our valuable people because they don't, that's the people in the country who make it valuable and we want to keep it here and invest it in order to help us out of a position like this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u51	Mr. President. I have a few things here, especially one I'd like to talk to the highest. Minister. The budget bill consists of a team called the European Union Guidelines for Education, Research and Technology. This team is about 2.6 billion for 2019, with an increase between 812 billion. K. That's a lot of money. What I would have wanted to get past a minister is what would cause this rise, and if a minister could tell us where we Icelanders are when it comes to funding from this framework, how much money Icelandic people, individuals or companies have received. This is with regard to the European Union Framework Programme. Then I just want to join the bill called reimbursement for filmmaking in Iceland. It's a 134 billion drop. K. As we know, filmmaking is a practical and lucrative article here in Iceland. It can be said that the government fund is in effect losing if you cut down on this point because the movie sector brings us many jobs and many secondary jobs relate to it. We know that the cultural value of Icelandic films based on economic views is great.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u52	Mr. President. First of the European Union study plans, I assume, this is simply because Icelandic companies and people are sending in such applications that the ratio is just this way. This point of topic 7 is divided between me and the minister of education and culture and this object is under the Minister of Education so that he should answer exactly why this amount is so high. I think it's because we're just returning good applications into this fund that, in fact, we get a higher percentage than our size in the partnership. With regard to the reimbursement of filmmaking, I simply had to set priorities. This is a part of the program. It's my decision, but it's even. Doing so because we've seen that it's reducing the size a little bit. I determined that it would really be safe to do so. In the event that there is a major explosion, it is a so - called luxury problem that we would face. But because of him. A senator entered Icelandic filmmaking and its cultural importance, but I agree completely with it, but I add that these remunerations are, of course, why projects. There are pictures of race cars in Hollywood that also receive refunds because it's the size of Iceland that is remunerationable. I just wanted to say that this has to do with any type of activity in this country that involves filmmaking, not just Icelandic films about Icelandic culture or nature.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u53	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. I'd like to take this opportunity and come into the tourism only. By 2017, the network of countries and rural communities was about 60 billion. This is an amount close to costing the land hospital in one year. The currency industry alone was about 530 billion. We know this, and it has been said many times that this has become one of our most important professions. Much more tourists come to our country because of our beautiful nature and pressures at the main tourist attractions. Building up tourist areas is thus a key factor in the reception of tourists. The budget bill has raised funds due to building in tourist areas from 700 million to $1 billion, or about 300 million, if I recall correctly. However, I do believe that this is not enough. What I wanted to ask the highest. A minister is whether he will apply himself for the better and more righteous priorities of traveling funds. Based on the high income that the state fund receives from the tourism service, much more money should be spent in building facilities, more money on necessary projects. In proportion to the importance of this article, priorities must be set. It really is a matter of righteousness. I wanted it past the top. A minister whether she will put her priorities first, which the article considers very important.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u54	Madam President. You're absolutely right. Of course, a senator's income for the government and rural society is hugely high by traveling and exporting incomes. A senator came in. We've been putting far more money on it than before, e.g. ... thefinishedfinance of tourist status. I also mention the importance of seeing this in the context of the national programme under a new environmental minister. When she appeared, she did not have much money. Now a significant improvement has been made. I think the tourist budget and the country structure plan work together, I think it plays well together. One is a competitive fund, and the other is long-term policy with a set of priorities. Of course, it's a lot of money. Hv. One senator noted that the importance of this article should be set priority. I don't know if I agree. What matters is that we have the needed structure. I know that we have not always felt that this is the case, but we also have a number of other projects that we would like to finance. If, for example, you see how much money goes into your health and welfare systems is your profession, and people who make valuables that pay for what you want. It's simply that way. When these expenses increase, only the people in this country make the valuables for them. Hence, it may be difficult to establish priorities in relation to the importance of this article. Of course, the needs of tourism are then driven to a great extent by road transport and other factors under other ministers, law enforcement, and health matters, as well. But there it is also in what I mentioned earlier on the matter of services. I want to see it that way. I'd rather see more distribution control than a media control at specific locations, that these areas are economicly sustainable when it comes to building up and they have tools to charge the tourists who come so we can protect nature and ensure a positive experience for them.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u55	A respectable president. We here discuss a budget bill for 2019 and under this program we divide ministers by our actions, and it is now time to discuss mainly the matter of health and the financial resources under it. As mentioned, in the case of the highest order. Secretary of finance, as well as the highest. Prime Minister earlier today, the development of social integration is the promotion of the present government's priorities. It is true that while the economy in this country is greatly affected by the economic breakdown, it is still a significant task to work on the structure of the welfare system. The Government Treaty states that the Icelandic health system should meet with the world's best outcome, that all the people should enjoy good service regardless of their economic status and habitat. To achieve that goal, we must continue to support the welfare system, health care, and social factors. The government's granting began with the approval of the General Assembly of the 2018 budget, where contributions to health were greatly increased but also by agreed financial programme provided by the General Assembly for spring by 2019◯023, assuming that health care costs will increase by 79 billion in total financial time and that the building cost will be 101 billion in the same period. The 2019 financial bill reflects the priorities of the Treaty. The financial and financial bill under discussion can show a significant increase in contributions to health care. The total increase is 12.6 billion. With the exception of remuneration and remuneration. A bill for the budget that we now discuss shows some of the main focus on health care. I'd like to mention some factors: Health Care Unit as first stop in the medical system, patient payment, New Hospital construction, more intensive walking services, and improved mental health care. These factors are financed in the financial program and give special attention to them in the budgeting of a financial bill. According to the bill, contributions to health care will be increased by nearly 1 billion dollars. and the resulting benefits are some 650 million, especially in strengthening mental - health care facilities within the health care unit, including to increase mental health status and increase mental health status. 200 million will be used to promote health care as a first site in the medical system, in which case teamwork within the health care system will be increased, prevention and education for patients. Home care contributions are increasing by 100 million, and 70 million will be used to introduce the first stage of the screening for colorectal cancer. At the end of the next year, patients will continue to be helped to reduce their payment, contributions to produce from the construction of the Land Hospital at the Ring Road, the implementation of a new treatment core in the fall, and the complete design of a research facility is planned. The development of walking services will be priority, and to this end a special 200 billion will be granted. K. extra contribution to Land Hospital. Caring for the Land Hospital will also be strengthened, including the U.S. If they're expert on this project, there'll be 250 million. K. It is true here, too, that health services in the country are being funded at 400 million this year. K. to strengthen the centre of health institutions in the country and in the bill, it is based on the fact that this excess concentration, as it were, this support, this injection, will be sustained by a steady donation, with no particular need to fight for it from year to year. Extracurricular services will be strengthened, but the extra costs for hospital transport are increasing by an additional 200 million, with additional contributions to support the transport contracts, including emergency air pollution. The production programme for nursing sufferers will be increased by a million dollars, and 100 million will be spent to increase the number of days spent. As we understand, a respectable president, I am not able to complete the entire group in five minutes, but I killed here on key factors, expecting to have a good conversation with members of the council about what their minds are up to in this series.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u56	Madam President. V.E.G. Minister. Our health services are a challenging and challenging group of subjects. The people of the land rely on the quality of structure and trust, rely on the public ministry, and want its ways to be the most important, in fact, that it is in absolute priority. This has been repeated in surveys and challenges. It may not be fair to say that governments are totally distracted by our calling for public attention on the currently existing bill. They are ambiguous, yet they certainly blow out both to themselves and to others in a large way to the small things being done. Hospital service receives only 2.5 billion bucks. an increase that merely rhymes with older age and population. This is more than half of what the country felt was needed to do, and there are other medical institutions, Akureyri hospital, and the medical area of other health institutions, who for many years have had a difficult time living on both business and housing. That's not adding up. In all likelihood, joint operations will not be increasing and difficult to perform in behalf of women, for example, no more than has been done, waiting lists will be extended to the remainder. At the top of the purchase, we make up a 402 billion. K. to the hospitals. Is Minister really comfortable wearing this? Health care in the country hangs on the lower back, the most important basic medical services. There is no evidence of shifting the country in health care, and there is no sign of this in the budget that this is the point of the situation. In many areas, health - care centers no longer have money for doctors but rely on circuit services. Is this what we'll live with, the highest. Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u57	A respectable president. Hv. A senator is some pity in opposing this bill, but I have tried to be a reasonable man, and I would like to try to approach it that way. I'd like to mention some points he came in here. Of course, when we are adding a billion to health care, it brings reflected in all parts of the country and emphasis on mental health and mental health, as well as for mental - health teams. Emphasis on the new development center of health care that serves the whole country also reflects the emphasis on health based values. Because of what? One senator put it so that waiting arts would continue to advance, and I hope that he missed the wait - up campaign between 800 million per year and 900 million per year, and that according to the plan of this year's schedule, it has been a permanent one and will remain to serve because the waiting list for important actions has been brought to a considerable degree by the Icelandic health service. I'd also like to mention the number that I mentioned earlier regarding the permanent amount of money in the health base across the country. I'd also like to mention that it was shown to the director of the Land Hospital at ◯ University hospital, and I think that it should be a very good idea for all of us, that the National Hospital believes that this is really a good place. He also mentions what matters to me when we are discussing the health care that it hangs together and when we are building up a medical facility and clinic, as well as a good and strengthening influence on other health care services, including the Land Hospital and Health Centres. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u58	Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. It takes a lot more than what is expected in this bill to cut on a waiting list. True, they have become firm, but there is more to it, and we need to make much more use of the equipment we have in the country. I miss not seeing in this bill much more signs of the future and the setting we want to create for the older generation. It does not involve building 100, 200, or 300 nurses, the promise of an unattainable medical life, which also does not exist for money. Besides, there are probably 4.5 billion active nursing homes, and the current nursing home is now in short supply. Although nurses are called largely after the increase in nursing, there are other factors. It is not bound to concrete but to a strong, clear view, a change of attitude, a change in emphasis, a better setting, and support at home. We've wanted much clearer emphasis on this. Of course, this is where we all need to get involved, so we need to change the conversation. Mantran, this is the highest language. The minister mentioned in the bill is this, and it repeatedly states: The hardness of the overall health - care policy in accordance with the government's administration contract. It is reserved in every box of the bill's index. So I ask a minister because timing is important in this regard: What is this whole policy? What phase is it, and what plans are there for publication on some of its outlines? Does a minister think that new and collective policies will affect health care as soon as possible next year, both things that tend to serve themselves and costs?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u59	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's questions are very good, and perhaps primarily what he says here, which serves as a minister to older people. I just agree with every word that comes out of a language. A senator, who believes that as soon as nursing staff are needed, much more is involved in flexible planning and the possibility of staying at home for as long as possible and enjoying the ministry more at home. During the days, I was introduced to a very interesting assignment in Akureyri that would have been using ten nurses for a much larger group in a flexible day of 365 days each year. This flexibility has to be maintained in the whole system, so it will not be that there will be some central approach to the approach of these factors. And because of what? A senator here speaks of a solution to health, as well as a concrete, and so on, I ask him to slow down just to talk about promises that are beyond me that I've been a minister for nine months, so I haven't built all the living rooms on the plan. I think it is important to look at the design of these nurses to help them cope with flexible treatments but not to be so rigid that they do not respond. I guess we're gonna do what. A senator would agree. Hv. A senator also asks about the medical conference and its timing. Since spring, the Ministry has been prepared, and the editor of the Health Organization is my assistant, Birgir Jakobsson, a former surgeon, and there are two-day programs organized by the Directorates of Public Health and Offices under the Ministry at the beginning of October. Then will be opened on November 2, and the policy will be implemented for a few weeks, and it will be made up of a synonym that is held in the Constitution of the government and will be submitted to the spring council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u60	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you very much. A health minister for this review of the bill. As everybody knows, it's a big case, health issues. The minister of health has a real problem working through all of this, and I'm aware of that. There have also been tremendous advances in technology, both drugs and cures. This requires extra funding and is a big problem. Life span is increasing because of this progress and so on. I'm going to be confined to a question and a tour to a minister about what I've been discussing before, alcohol and drug treatments. I was looking for financial contributions to alcohol and drug therapy in the bill, but I couldn't find extra funds. It has now been achieved by an expired service contract with the SÁ last year and was able to meet over 1,500 patients, while 2,200 patients were treated during the year. With the collection money, they made the gap. According to U.S. leaders, 2,700 patients could be received if they had enough money. Whatever the case, it's a fact that 600 people are on the waiting list at the hospital Vig, no matter what. It's headed for a close walk from the U.S.A. for lack of money. AUBE suffers from a special treatment or an extra unit in the treatment of opioid addicts, who are expensive and who want me to have a minister do this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u61	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's questions. We have already discussed these matters at the Assembly Hall, and I especially rejoiced with a discussion about the question of Prime Ministership. A senator mentioned that he had plans for a special discussion with me about prevention and prevention, as he mentioned there. I think that's a very important discussion. I want to know that they're gonna be okay. A member of this body, including alcohol and drug abuse, is, in a sense, also the fragrance of mental health. It's all playing. During the past few months, we have especially looked at the problems of young people with two problems, such as a health committee has specifically adopted and was dealing with children and young people, as well as with adults. We social security ministers have decided to take over this particular project and have set up a group of work to be specifically discussed with children and young people with a problem of consumption. I know why. A senator does not ask us exactly about this. I think it's important, though, to mention it here because the role of the group is even. to specifically examine the set up of treatment centers for the population of children and young people who are suffering from any emergency problems. The situation today is that the United States has really prayed about caring for bad people. We are now in a transitional state that we do not know exactly how to end. I'd also like to say that the supply of health care, the growing of experts within it, the establishment of other mental health professionals, is also key here. That's where we're adding a lot on this bill. It really matters, and it affects the activities of the day. A senator is especially concerned. I expect he has the opportunity to follow his question. However, today's trend is that drug treatment should be more focused on the environment, so we need to talk about these issues with both the UN and other and the rest of our mental - health services in order to integrate the type of service that exists, calling for the latest energy and policy. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u62	V.E.G. President. So I'll catch the ball where it's at the highest. The minister concluded her case, but she did not answer whether she was going to raise the money to the U.N. because of the numbers my colleague gave the above. I read a recent article after the top. Ministers that she feels that she lacks perspective on health matters. That's why it's a little worried that she's coming to a game with a straw. The order vision is shown by cutting on anything that isn't Kingdom speed. Then a minister in the article, with the permission of a president, says something that in Iceland's expert system, each of us has a chance for who and where. The expert team we have, the expert doctors, receives as many patients each year as the health care and the Hospital meets. It's quite a coincidence, I must say. As a user of the system, I cannot say that it is by chance depending on how people respond and what treatment they will receive. So I ask a minister who makes this game with the group of highly educated doctors, whether or not, because I haven't seen it in the bill, to negotiate with them and to make sure that this system works as it has done with the health care and the hospital system. I'd like to ask the Minister if she wants to do that and if there's any capital support in the bill to negotiate with the experts. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u63	A respectable president. First, of course, the agreement will be made. It's in the eye. I know that a secretary of numbers like the one who spoke before me, although I respect him for the privilege of not having read all the bill from one page to the other, should be able to realize that there is a budget for such agreements within the next year.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u64	Nice to meet you.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u65	If he chooses to speak extensively about a straw sample and to cut anything that isn't the state's record, etc. I'm going to try to stick to the subject and say that what I'm doing and what I'm doing at the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Health, when we discuss the lack of perspective in the category, is to agree with a National Reconquisition that speaks of an irreverent purchase of health care. [[Which are?]] We agree with Mckinsey and others who have made an assessment of Icelandic health care and say that the system is unconformable, fragile, and leads a waiting list to one of the wings and hypercubes on the other. I don't suppose I will. A senator would say that a public accountant is in a way to cut anything that isn't a stateman, or that Mckinsey suffered from a straw view. But that may be the case. A senator, for example, has at times been surprised by his expression, perhaps to continue to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u66	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for this discussion that is being conducted today. I'd also like to wish for the highest. A health minister is happy about the work I have done in the past and wishes her luck, but I turn to the first question I would like to ask her. For a five - year budget of the government by 2019◯223, the following is booked: The growing number of tourists throughout the country calls for a greater view of the potential for economic growth in areas around the South. The majority of them are directed to the health secretary to review funding benefits more than ever, and to inform about the factors responsible for the allocation of funds. In particular, these areas need to be viewed as urban development in Southnes, where there is a lower health supply in the country than in other countries. So I ask the minister: Where can you see in the 2019 budget that Southnes, of course, demand that they sit at the same table as the rest of the country when it comes to sharing money for health care? Over the years, Southnes population has increased by 24%, 5,100 people, and are now about 26,500. At the same time, in the last two years, the population of the city of Smoke has increased by 15%, 2,400 people, corresponding to the Santa Society of Horn. At that time, as in many other countries, contributions to health care have increased by 1%, followed by 0.5% of the budget for these institutions. I ask the minister, where do we see this place on the current budget bill that the government's booking of a five-year financial program is going to work?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u67	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's questions and good wishes. I want to know that I have had a lot of contact with the Southnesians and health professionals there, but more than with the local government and the representatives and direction of the body of elders who were with me at a meeting at dawn. The local people really keep me in touch with the material so that I can get it ready, and the senator is the front among the peers. Southnes'budget especially increased 50 million to 2017, resulting from the growth in the area and the increase in the number of tourists through Leifs station. This year, contributions to the Agency increased further or by 54 million, so the budget has actually increased by over 100 million. K. over two years. Detailed and repetitive assessments of the activities of the Agency have been made, and there are certain challenges in addition to the current activities. A senator goes over here and is particularly the result of the increase. More important, because the growth is going so fast, it is testing the interiors of society and not just health care, but all the interiors of society. This will help us to understand when we speak to local authorities and others. It is true that there is also the medical care here that is not directly involved in financial contributions but in the fact that many of the doctors working in the medical facility perform nonprofit services elsewhere. There are many and many challenges that will not all be solved with increasing financial contributions, although that is certainly part of the subject. To me, all these tasks are subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u68	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for these answers. I'd like to show her that only a raise in pay from medical staff and nurses to meet the Land Hospital takes about 150 million a year to do so. We too need to reach that location. I know that today, because I called hospitals, only four or five doctors are working, but they have to be in this area so that they're not well men today, and they can't have time for the second part in October with a doctor today. I'd like to proceed and ask the minister if he doesn't think it's time to have a professional assessment and analysis of the health facility of the Southnes, plan the improvements and structure needed to meet the demands of the time. I entered an increasing population, and each year through 2040, for example. Communicators at Keflavík Airport increase by 4,400,5500 people, i.e. one aluminium a year or half the staff of the Blue Lion. Then I'd like to ask the minister about the design of local homes, whether the National Hospital criteria are normal in the case of heavier patients, that the way the Hospital's care is in such cases, and how they add workers is the standard for residence homes in the country where a doctor may live ten miles away, even 100, and at night there may be two medical staff on duty, and that may not even be a back-up nurse. Do we not need to be more specific in order to improve security in the country, and when it comes to heavier patients, do we not need to consider the circumstances in the area of the land's hospital, where dozens of doctors and nurses are working all day and can intervene? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u69	A respectable president. It may be that I haven't heard enough of the question that stooped to the workers in the care of local homes in the country, according to the care of land hospitals. According to my information, if that was the question, why? A senator here nominates to my mind - it is not that these criteria are laid to the fore. National surgeon generals have issued design criteria for nursing, especially. Hv. A senator in particular asks about the housing, and I have heard some comments about it, in some respects it is about its use and how it is best placed, but in some respects it is about the increased need for space in the rhythm of the changed service. It should be noted that the Ministry of Economics will handle government property and if it needs to make a specific assessment of the housing and how it serves the operation as best it would likely be a project that would in some sense be a joint project by the Ministry of finance and the Ministry of Health. But as a result of what we were discussing in general, I think it is very important that we reevaluate some of the ways in which we discuss these designs, for, in part, there is a contribution to health care care, of course, to the health authorities' concerns but it is not and must not take it from those who are responsible for the management of each health care facility to provide adequate care at their operating center. That's the way it has to be. We have to get out of control thinking that our responsibility is at home, she's in the country, she's where people experience and understand the need for service, she understands the situation. A senator is very well liked here because if we're going to solve every case at a desk in Reykjavík, we don't have a lot of living places in Iceland. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u70	A respectable president. The reason for my initial political involvement was the land hospital's position. So I had a very pleasant phone call yesterday with the president of the Land Hospital, Matthíasson, when he told me that he was very pleased with the financial bill as it appears. I desperately asked him if it was really true and asked about all the lawsuits involved in the hospital business and, yes, he was, as can be seen in an article in the Morning Press today, very satisfied with this. During the last few days, I have been criticized for commending the government and by some councilmen for what I see as a very successful job because of the possibility of sacrificing my political capital. I have no interest in a political capitalist who is about my not working here for Congress and nation. You know, originally, Piratars were founded not to exist as a political force, but we still need to exist, but I just like it, and I want to give the highest commendation. A health minister for her work to be documented. However, Páll the Matthíasson of Matthua spoke of a man's design. Oh, I wish I had more time. Okay, I'm going to go then really fast over a story. What I see, and what I think is the need to heal in this community - our present community culture has developed a fail-grade. We see terrible news about young people who are dying from addiction and suicide. [[The president calls.]] I crashed there in time. I'd like to ask the highest. Health Minister whether or not she has plans for continued treatment of young people and is interested in making the medicine Naloxone more accessible, a nasal spray medicine that can save lives. [[The president calls.]] No, I'm going to keep going, a few seconds. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] We need community effort now, addiction is so much health problems. [[The president calls.]] Piratar and I have been talking about it and have said that we need to take drugs away. We need to take offense at illness. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u71	I ask senators as much as they alone to respect the time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u72	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for her entrance. I have sometimes said that the Piratars have often been here in a state of duty for the Land Hospital, and I have sometimes said that we could form a special family of the Land Hospital here. I agree with it. A senator may say, and there may be material in some larger, philosophical discussion about why we are here and what is involved in politics and this requirement of integrity. I want to say it to what. Senator I think we're living much longer as politicians if we have the balls to be whole. That's my opinion. That is correct, and of course very important. A senator is saying, we were both at a special assembly for suicide during the days. The actual programme of action was a product of the best - known work of this class, and this group was made to report to health ministers through well - established means of dealing with multiple suicides, not speculations, but speculative methods. I've been looking at these data. This project is held by a surgeon, as well as by a subversive body and representatives of locals, etc. who have suffered such blows in their own skin. I think it's very important to keep this kind of work alive, i.e. Let her continue to work and use the force of stroke, which is now in the discussion of these terrible things to direct our energy, but we must also remember to keep the context all below. Hv. A senator was a little dramatic when he spoke of community development as having run its course, etc., but it's still a bit of a thought if so many people feel bad in a wealthy community. [[The president calls.]] Then there is something that is not entirely right about values and priorities in our community. [[The president calls.]] I just thank you. A senator for the question, expecting to have a member of it here as far as possible in these matters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u73	I don't have much time, and I have many questions for the Minister, so I'm going to let myself push myself straight into them with no background, hoping that the Minister will get the answers as much as possible. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers to the first objective in section on public health, prevention and monitoring, to promote health and healthy life - styles. One of the actions to meet this goal is to encourage and support health - needs society. I would like to ask a minister: What does that involve? What does that mean? Regarding the objectives of section 24, which focus on reducing the incidence of life - related diseases, I would like to be curious about whether smoking and substance abuse are involved or about food, pollution, stress, detoxification, and trauma. Since diseases caused by life - style apply to so many aspects of society, I miss not seeing a complete approach, since action is consistent across the language field and over the minister. Will a minister work toward that goal in cooperation with another minister, or will each work at his own corner? Then I wish a minister to congratulate the chairman of the Land Hospital with the budget bill. That's great. But I would also like to ask about the restoration of the health system that has been going on and where we are on that assignment. Are we still in the rebuilding phase? I'll assume we're still there, but when will that phase be finished and then I'll give us the money back? Does the budget bill cover the need for funding and staff? Finally, excuse me for asking how many questions these are: Will the Minister come to set up a cost analysis for members of Congress and committees so that we can understand what is going to be a great deal of money in each operation and thus take a more informed view of the budget? It is so difficult to understand the actions involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u74	A respectable president. Then I'm gonna get right in the answers, too. Hv. A senator first asked about an enormously important task that is the health of communities. I think it's a question. A senator would tell me and my Ministry and also the surgeon's office that we need to talk more about that assignment because of all that is involved. A senator mentioned, all that pertains to diet, sleep, and various other health and public health factors throughout his life. The surgeon general has worked, and it is a very long, detailed job that is behind it, in setting up standards of human health to examine, both between parts of the land and from year to year, whether we are on the right track or not. The fact that 85% of Iceland's population lives in a rural society that has undergone this assignment with the surgeon general tells us that the rural communities are at least very aware that this is a tool we can use better. But I think we're supposed to use the challenge to suggest to the surgeon general that public health will become a special introduction. well - being committees, how they are handled, how they are developed, and what kind of work they are on health care and so forth. I think it's important. We have to start putting more and more weight on human health and prevention. Hv. A senator asked where we were in the transformation process. She's right that we're very early, but my position is that as soon as we know at least where we are going - we are trying to make sure that we have a comprehensive health service that is understandable, which is good and right for patients who are good and right for those who render the service and who give the best possible, the best health care for our joint contribution from a joint fund. This is also what the Icelanders want, we have in research and signature collections, etc., so we work in harmony with society's will.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u75	A respectable president. Here's a discussion, and I've been giving the government a bill for 2019 and I just want to check into health care. It is a pleasure to see that the next year's total cost of hospital service is estimated to increase by 6.8 billion on a solid price, corresponding to a 7.4% increase. That's fine. It is particularly enjoyable to have specialized services, such as psychologists throughout the country, put first. Of course, this should be the goal of all the people of the land to have access to such specialized service regardless of their location and economy. So, as a matter of special service, I looked down on the bill and saw that 20 million were spent in Bjarkarlls, which offer treatment for sexual abuses, as well as for prevention and education, and for the support of emergency receptions at the Land Hospital. This is a very important group of subjects, and it is late too much money, or it is used for prevention and follow - ups with child abuse. I'd like to ask the highest. Health Ministers, whether they feel that this is sufficient for prevention and operation in that case and whether any funds are intended for such activity in the country. Now I know that I have begun to open up a center for violence in the North and East, which is supposed to be located in Akureyri and could become a wand to such centres around the country. As far as I'm concerned, this is the cooperation of several parties, such as police, business associates, and the University of Akureyri, and the same facilities as the driver's at Bjarkarburð. This is an important operation, and I'm asking the highest. The minister, whether or not this party will be emphasized and if the matter will be viewed as foreign.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u76	A respectable president. This discussion is of utmost importance, especially if we just look back, no fear - inspiring distance, on the coverage of a year ago, or perhaps just a year ago, in terms of violations of sexual abuse and their status and rights in the United States. The Memorial # headlights were on the Internet, and at the same time, a legal guardian plan came to the fore in behalf of sexual abuses. When setting up this government in December 2017, a decision is made to complete that strategy, both because the need was huge but not least because it would have been strangely different from setting this matter very early in the course of the previous politics and in the discussion of this serious aspect of Icelandic society and the struggle that people had fought for legal reform. That is correct. A senator, of course, that this is the project of many advisers, that is the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Social Affairs, and the community. Regarding what is involved in my ministry and the work being done there are these factors all over the world, whether in the service rendered at the Land Hospital and in our support and support. An important factor in the emergency treatment of victims of sexual abuse in the Land Hospital is that the construction of the services there may be a backland for similar service in a country where there is a need. Because this is a delicate service that needs to be professional and clear, it needs to be increased professional guidance in many parts of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u77	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. A health minister for his answers and encouraged him in these matters. The importance of these factors in prevention will rarely be intense, and it is important to take early and safely care of individuals who have suffered such violence. I would also like to mention the medical conference that I have previously mentioned in this chair and the importance of working on health care policies, and we will respond as soon as possible so that we can handle this major project with professional guidance. I'm glad that it's under stress and it's still being worked on. A respectable president. I also welcome the goals found in the budget that should be directed to the needs of elderly people who have an integrated mental - health and drug problem. If so, I would like to mention only a group of disabled persons in the same situation. Then I'm talking about people with developmental impairment and have alcohol and drug problems. The members of this group have often come to their doors, and little is discussed on this subject and there is really no solution to this group. So I'd like to ask the highest. A minister of health care whether any work is started in order to meet this group or whether they know anything about it. That's all for now.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u78	A respectable president. Fortunately, in recent years the International Parliament has faced the vital task of ensuring the rights of those who are disabled in Icelandic society. We know that there are still a lot of offenses, not just in the process, but also in the legislation on this matter. I'd like to mention that in a general way. However, as soon as we expand our attention to the growth in all health care, health care, health care, hospital, health care facilities throughout the country or elsewhere, we are strengthening the professional skills of Icelandic health care professionals to cope with a combination of problems. By stopping the patient from being alone and the person in health care is alone, we might allow the individual to spring from some social context, both within his or her own family, in the background, in education, and expectations, etc. and that the health - care providers also come on a broad scale with a team approach and a wide range of expertise, we are reducing the risk of developing complex combinations, such as disability, mental illness, addiction, and other such factors, coming out of the gap. I would like to answer this in a general way that I believe that with what is being done, and of course not just in Iceland, it is a general trend in global health care development, increasing team work and increasing the number of health - care professionals, we are ensuring better services for all and including those with severity. A senator mentions.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u79	A respectable president. It is indeed my privilege to stand here in this nation's highest position and to say my first words here. On page 18. 362 of the budget bill shows that there have been 5,300 million budgets last year, but there are now 5,500 million and well up to 4.4%. But now there's always a question about how this is the priority for the team. For example, in daily care, I mention that physical and physical training is designed to keep the individual's motor and ability to perform the activities and the quality of daily life best. Sadly, this patient's condition will be slightly worse, and the special person caring for him at home. In time, the person will be sent to a six - week resting hospital, which is acceptable, but in the at rest, he will not receive this physical or physical training. As a result, we observe that a person after this rest period of rest is coming home in a very bad way. At home, there is a person who was thinking about him, and we can only imagine what the situation will be in the case of those who need to receive and care for someone who is completely unqualified for the activities of daily life. This is a matter between the Ministry of Health and the Health Minister. [[The president calls.]] It's in some drawer that we need to open, so I'll wait to the highest level. A health minister is now opening this drawer and entering this package.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u80	A respectable president. I'd like to start by wishing. Congratulations to a senator on his virgin talk. I have to say, it was very clever of me to speak here on this program and to show that the person certainly has experience in managing. I would like to mention the important factors. A senator mentioned here, and will accept her challenge to go deeper into the drawer and see what it is, that I have had a meeting with those most familiar in these and especially physical therapists. I have been very concerned about how important it is for this service to be available so that it is an alternative to health care measures, as it were. It is my religion and certain that training is more often than not a way to prevent the overuse of analgesics that is a matter of personal interest and that we have been here. A fine report that I received to correct the abuse of such drugs pointed out that we would need more measures to deal with anxiety, depression, ADHD, sleep problems, etc. and they may involve things other than those we have used to think about. It is extremely important, but it is just as important in the factors that arise. There's a senator here. Because there has been a great deal of discussion in the community to form a hall service in a hospital and everything that goes with it, we need to remember that once you are inside, for example. The hospital, or hospital in Akureyri, or an intensive medical facility, has access to these classes as well. There, services can best meet this need, especially when speaking with one specialist, a long - suffering person with complex combined diseases. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u81	Mr. President. I am very interested in these matters because I have been working on aging for 30 years and have been involved in mental - health problems for four years. I'm really interested in this because mental - health professionals or those who suffer from mental illness who are out of hospital are very out of control. The rural communities have tried to cooperate with their psychiatrists, but I've always been asking myself better and better about this and always found myself, I think, better and better results, and there's a day-care plan, if it was the same as it was for older citizens and brain failure. It would be a day's care for people with psychiatric disorders, so they can come, they can get it, and they receive this regular routine, so that they don't turn the whole day around. I think it's really strong and good. It's an inexpensive resource. True, we have a choice of day, that is, Bob, that is, the Rock, and it's Lækur. These measures have been used well, but they can always be done better because of the options already available to individuals of their own free will, but we often need a much better reserve for clients who are coming directly from an institution and who are disfellowshipped, just sitting at home, looking at their oldsteries, and even crying. Then your mind will fly, and there will be all hope for these clients. But I'd like to, too, because I'm talking about prevention... [[The president calls.]] Oh, boy. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u82	A respectable president. I'm sure it's not the last time we talk, but thank you. A senator for this inquiry and meditation. I find her input into this discussion to keep us busy in remembering how important it is to listen to those who have experience, who have the knowledge of their work and do their work. That's why I feel very important when we're working on our health policy now that this work will be, as it goes forward, in an ever - open process, i.e. That such voices can come into the discussion. In some ways, that is so. A senator points to a performance somewhere, i.e. increased emphasis on flexible measures in mental health care. One of the things we are naturally doing is increasing the emphasis on health care. For a short time, we may have viewed health care primarily as a site for physical illness, while others have lived elsewhere. Now, more and more, we are beginning to think that it is all one person and all the same health - care subject, as it were. If you feel bad in your spirit, you are likely to feel bad elsewhere and vice versa. Hv. A senator also points out the importance of follow-up and the availability of open resources. Of course, there is strong mental - health providers, who can without having to go through some complicated process of ordering time, etc., can consult the health care provider when standard treatment is completed or when it is interrupted or under any other circumstances. Now I'm in the same position as what happened. A senator who could say more than enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u83	Mr. President. Although the time is short, I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for acting on mental - health issues. Well, it was time. But it is right to ask questions. First thing I'd like to ask the highest. A secretary to the health - care practitioner's payment system. I ask: What's the reason why the government fund doesn't pay the same price for the same work all over the system, no matter where the work is done, whether it's a different area, a public hospital service, or a contract in Iceland's health insurance? Why does that apply, e.g. Another price for medical care in a state - of - law clinic than for nursing a frame deal with Medical Insurance? Why is there to be a financial budget for land hospitals, but the same procedure at the Akureyri hospital is financed, in other clinics or other clinics? What's going to happen, for example, if it's the highest. A minister can answer that, much of the increased donations for a special hospital service to provide hospitals with a different price for normal birth than the Western Institute for Health? These are certainly things that our present health - care minister is not responsible for, but it is only in the bill we have here but that these bad developments continue to unfold. Ministers of the last governments stopped and tried to wind up the disastrous development. I mention, for example, a payment system adopted by the health care of the capital area and used it both for government driving and for personal health care in the capital. This same system was then to be used for health care in the country. I can't see that in the law. I ask: Has a minister turned away from the same system of payment for all national health care? I don't think I can make it any further now, but I trust I can get answers to the questions so that I can look into other matters next round.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u84	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's questions. I'm gonna start with the wrong end. She asks about the health - care system that has been introduced into the capital area. To answer, of course, it is normal, and it is a goal that the same system will also be used in health care programs outside the country. The change is in the water. Well, I hope to see a place over the next few months, miss the most, but according to the ministry, that's what I'm doing. Secondly, why? A member of different localities, as it were, at the Land Hospital and other clinics. She says that if I understand the questions correctly, it's bad evolution and ask which seats and if we don't have to settle them. In this regard, we need to be careful that in health law, there is one medical institution that has the definition of a university hospital, and that is the Landstics. The Akureyri hospital, also a special hospital, has an additional definition of teaching a hospital. In terms of such improvement in the definition of the role of the health care facility, financial contributions to the institution are being made. This refers to the fundamental role of the future education of health groups. This is number one. Number two is the point of research and development. It is known that a university hospital such as a health - care mother ship usually has about 15% higher contribution on unity than on the rest of the population, and there is no invention here in Iceland. We need to make sure that the university hospital meets the prospect of being a mother's ship for health care as a whole. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u85	Mr. President. Thanks for the answer. These are things I know perfectly. What I'm asking is, why does this pay for different institutions for certain medical works? There's no connection between them. This can easily be done and should be done so that specific health institutions that play a specific role will be paid. But not to have specified works, to pay for the same price, to increase transparency. I was closer to being so positive at first, it took so much time for it. I need to find the focus again. There's something I'd like to say. The budget bill has quite a few investments. V.E.G. A minister has repeatedly admitted that it is important and all, but less is said about business contributions and the changes in itself are not so much considered to be the different budgets of the two years and then the transfers of museum members - but that is not discussed here. I'd like to point out that the budget doesn't take much advantage of the language, though the pink elephant, i.e. Compulsion of the healthcare system in financing. Named in particular is DRG contract for the Land Hospital. This disease classification system has long been used in hospitals as a cost analysis tool, such as the base of production-related financing, as it were. It's fine, but I like it, and I wonder if it's true, that it's also supposed to be the foundation of the new budget for Land Hospital. It's been tried in many places. It has been tried in Sweden, as people know, as shallow but has been removed from it and partly returned because of the cost. This is the one who sells the ministry with a very good opportunity for overwork. I'm asking if we understand that the DRG cost analysis of the Land hospital is not only an expensive diagnostic tool but also used as a payment base. And in connection with that, because I know that the work at the expense analysis has nearly all been in the hands of the Land Hospital, I ask: What is the knowledge of health experts and health insurance experts on that system? [[The president calls.]] It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. - Is that the best way to do that? Is she convinced that health management, policy, and observation are actually under the control of health authorities in this system?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u86	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the urgency of the view. I'd like to say in the context that when I get into the Ministry of Health, I think I'm starting to think about how much better we could do in having a strong, ubiquitous foundation behind a decision in the Ministry of Health. Often, that is too much, so we need other information to base our decisions on. There is a particular concern, or at least think about it. Hv. A senator reviews production-related funding and the DRG system, etc. It's in the lake at the Land Hospital to implement them to ensure transparency. I agree with what. A senator must be above doubt, but that will not let us go of what I was going through the different roles of the individual health institutions, as it were. A senator, in fact, agreed. I strongly emphasize that there is translucency in all my means, and according to the information I have in my possession, there may be no Icelandic health - care system as clear as a good diagnosis behind what is being done and at a National Hospital ◯ University hospital. The knowledge there lays the basis for what is being done and the cost is considerable. This was shown in Mckinseyr's report. It was carefully reviewed. But it's a long time before we go to the system for a reason. A senator suggests to ensure that the funding is transparent, on pair to the methods used in other parts of the system, in order to be comparable to comparing it correctly, so we do not have apples and oranges to compare the system. If we have a common basis for fact, it is also easier for us to make decisions.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u87	Mr. President. We are here discussing the role of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Health on the budget bill. Like what? The members of the council are aware that we are here talking about a total of 230 billion, enormous amounts of money. It's being done well in many places. Money is being added to the Hospital, funding for hospital construction, large contributions to health care, and full - time mental - health programs, and the costs for patients are being reduced. All very important things. But what I would like for my first talk to ask the highest. Minister is, where does the work regarding health policy say? When can we expect that this work and the fundamental work that our health - care organization will likely see each day? It's called on this policy, not only here at the General but also in the community. It's called because we control our health system, but we don't know how it feels, that we know where we're going, and that the tools we're carrying at any given time will help us get there.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u88	A respectable president. Hv. A senator asks about the status of health care and that work. I took the matter up earlier during the discussion. The situation is now that work has been done since spring. We're going to have a meeting of our policies along with our medical institutions at the beginning of October or at the beginning of the week, i.e. hospitals, clinics, and health care professionals there, to cover specific factors. Then comes a date at a health - care meeting scheduled for November 2nd. There is an open - minded discussion. I think it's very important that, in view of the fact that we're speaking here about a policy of political delinquency and changes in governments, etc., that it is clear that the very nature of the people most familiar. It must be clear, however, that health policy is a government policy in the seminary, which would then be supported by the General Assembly. Health policy will never be the lowest common option for all who have any interest in being either recipients or health care providers. But the conversation must take place, and that is where we need to listen. It's about to take a picture in the way the chapters are divided in health policy so that now I'm going to use this exciting opportunity, since there are not very many members of the Assembly Hall to tell the nation that there will be a difference. A section on the management of health care, specific services, quality and quality of life, science, human resources, and other factors that are directed to where we most need to sharpen focus focus. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u89	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. In my second speech, I would like to discuss just what I'm worried about in terms of budgeting with regard to health care. First of all, this is what is involved in the management of the nursing homes. The government's declaration of policy has established that the price for this base is sufficiently good. I want in the highest. Ministers depending on whether this work has already begun in the Ministry and when we can expect to see a country on that topic. The nurses call for it, and we've heard their pleas for it. Secondly, I want a minister to see if I'm definitely not properly divorced, and in fact, I think a minister has only established it earlier today, that the funds intended for health insurance for specialised services will be safely used and will be agreed with expert physicians. Sadly, there has been such talk in the community and even in the community, let us say that we do not stand to negotiate that service. I think it is very important that a minister speak clearly in this regard and would want to hear her opinion as to whether it exists or has been discussed using references or some such system in the agreements to help the health authorities control their costs.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u90	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator still for his questions and speculations. First of all, I want to say about it as good as good. A senator mentioned, and has been considerable in the discussions in the community recently and has been involved in the services of expert physicians and the contract of Iceland's Medical Insurance with them and the frame contract that is running out at the end of the year, that it is totally in the stock market and that it needs no more than to watch the financial bill to see that the amount and figure of agreements are expected in a written agreement with specialists. I figure that number could be 93/410 billion bucks. in 2019 C.E. I expect specialists to be interested in negotiating some of these matters, but it is also clear that we in the Ministry need, in accordance with the guidelines and current laws on public shopping and on government accountants' tips, etc. ensuring that such contact is correct, i.e. that services are offered and agreed on specific aspects. I expect those participating in that part of the Icelandic medical system to be interested in having such a conversation. I haven't. Hv. A candidate mentioned a reference system or some kind of service control, and this is one of the things we are repeatedly advised to consider, that in some way there must be a later protection in the health - care system, where the health care remains as the first stop and directs them to patients who are needed with all their warnings. Finally, he asked why. A senator on the foundation of nursing. This is considered in particular in the government covenants. This points to the point, and it is part of the big picture that is on the horizon when we consider a change in population age and increased service for older ones. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u91	A respectable president. I recommend budgets for holding groups 12 and 13, which are agriculture on the one hand, and fishing and fish farming on the other. According to the already existing bill, the total cost of these two causes is just over 23 billion, and so nearly 6.4 billion are for marine soil and fish farms and 16.5 billion, right beds, for the topic field of agriculture. Thus, in 2019 C.E., about 2.5% of the total budget of the state will be covered by a total of 2.5%. If I only go to the litigators and begin with a sea emissary approach so that the main focus in the marine future is to promote marine research so that Iceland can continue to improve its knowledge of marine life with the main objective of contributing to the provision of the commercial feeding program at any given time is to build on the best available knowledge. As we all know, in recent years there has been a key role in the Ecological Research Institute, and its work has increased dramatically. At this time, the Agency is working on and performing a major research and mapping of the marine bottom of Iceland to collect an overview of the resources there, as well as the design of living habitats. At the same time, in recent years the Agency has been given an increasingly important role in fish farming. On the other hand, we need to focus on improving the Agency's resources and shipping fleet so that they will be better equipped to carry out their role in relation to the demands made for today's marine research. According to the bill, Winter is expected to receive additional contributions for housing and to place himself in a new and magnificent dwelling at Hafnarfjörður. This is expected to happen in 2019, where dock conditions for ships and storage are good for equipment done. We're working on strengthening the administration of fish farming in the Ministry and in its institutions to respond to increased activity in this area. For one thing, for our part, I recommended a bill to legalize fish farming. I will repeat the fall game that will be proposed to support research, monitoring, working environment, fish farming administration, as well as reimbursement of the activity that is there. However, in the context of the fishing situation, I would especially like to welcome the approved and unanimous decision made by the General of the Council at the benefit of some of the construction of the ocean research vessel, which is a long-strand project in these areas, and will help us remain in the front order of the research and environment systems of the sea. In agricultural activities, most things are normal, normal. These expenses are somewhat stable from year to year, based primarily on the existing domestic agreements at any given time. So that we have a domestic agreement now in force until 2026, with a revised law in mind in 2019 and 2023. However, I asked for a staff review of the livestock agreements to focus on reevaluating all the conditions of the sheep's flocks first. That work is now taking place. I expect we can offer suggestions in that subject later in the fall. In terms of agriculture, I would like to mention that in a new climate-based strategy, sheep-crowds are expected to be available for participation in tasks, including projects. in the field of land use, and believe that there may be significant opportunities for farmers. Finally, I'd like to mention that we are working on various projects to promote innovation and Iceland's reputation as a food producer. In particular, there are two projects, one for food policy, and the next for public food prices. In addition to this, we have in a particular process to integrate an integrated agricultural and marine resources with the ability to improve innovation in this area of food. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u92	Mr. President. It's like the highest. A number of interesting projects under the top of the water were covered by a marine dignitary and agricultural minister. Minister. There are some things in the bill that call attention to events at the highest level. Minister. Perhaps the most obvious thing to do would have been if I were to reflect on questions related to the foretold reduction in fishing costs in terms of what the bill says on page 5. 90, with President's permission: The delay suggests an increase in cod level by 3% in the next year's fishery, an increase of 40% and 30% in the catcher market. The pages on this page are as follows: The list is that new advice from the Agency can lead to an increase in export prices or 8 billion dollars. That would correspond to approximately 4% increase in export prices A truly positive news there, and it would have been nice to ask the highest news. A minister to see if he can't see an opportunity to make this additional offer. I'm not gonna ask that question, and I'm not gonna take that conversation with the Minister right now, but I'd like to talk about agriculture and the ambitions that seem to be reflected in donations for research, development, and innovation on agriculture. Much discussion has been made about agricultural status, such as the highest level. A minister entered, especially the difficult circumstances of sheep farmers. One of the things that have been discussed to try to strengthen their position and increase their value is just the innovation of agriculture, focusing on increasing the value of both basic and secondary production products. But the bill does not look at it at the top. Ministers believe that there is a reason to support such innovations, for as the greater part of the innovation bill, research, development, and agricultural innovation are reduced by 27.9%, which in fact is explained in some respects by the degradation of temporary donations, but inadequacy and no increase. So I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: How does he support the development of innovation in agriculture?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u93	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. The question is, How does the person present provide support for the development and innovation of agriculture? I see it in various ways. You're right. A senator notes that there is a cut or a decrease in donations to this part of the budget, resulting from contributions to the National Farmer University of Iceland, which is actually a matter of office other than mine, as temporary contributions have been dropped, which came into the budget of the past year and the senator knows about it. There are opportunities for innovation in agriculture, but less planning is not possible, and we can't take it well enough of it in the private environment of farmers. The point we're discussing, e.g. Now with sheep farmers, in their discussion of renewing their employment conditions, it is possible for them to have increased power and freedom to use, as I say myself to meetings with them, the rights they have under the current sheep contract to play in ways that are not done today. I think there's a lot of moves out there. I can feel a lot of energy from sheep farms and will so that I can process the resources we have placed in there in ways that are different from what we are doing today. It is not easy, however, to process. We're sitting about it these days, my deputies, talking to farmers. I would also like to mention opportunities that farmers will be given in connection with the climate crisis programme. There are also opportunities. Fortunately, the farmers in this country think that the longest part of their thinking is to contribute more to climate than many other professions we see in the discussions about changes in the land's work on climate.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u94	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for this answer, and it's nice to hear that he considers the importance of agriculture a great deal, though I feel that I do not take this ambition in the 2019 budget, either in word or in numbers. But there are tremendous opportunities for domestic food production and development, with increasing travel to Iceland, for example. During the past few years and indeed decades, noteworthy developments in the fishing industry, such as the highest, have occurred. A minister of men knows best, earns more valuable things, more valuable products, and the value of knowledge that Icelandic companies have so much in the world. It's also relevant to climate, as is the case at the highest level. A minister also came in, in so many ways. However, it is not only important to reduce the level of carbon production in this country, as suggested by the government's proposal for a climate control programme, but also important to increase the production in this country. That's what I missed in the Action Programme, in order to form vegetables and fruits. It is a fact that large amounts of food are needed in the world. There must be some responsibility for our access to sustainable energy. We have enough hot water to form, and we must want to use it, and we can use that energy to produce far more domestic foods over our heads and thereby reduce the total carbon track of Iceland, where we will be able to import less amounts, which would truly be in line with the sustainable objectives of the United Nations. So I'd like to ask the highest. A minister may see whether he can more fully meet in order to form garden farmers to support innovation, culture, wealth, and a greater variety of products and to cover less costs, i.e. by ensuring their bioavailability of lower power.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u95	A respectable president. Hv. A senator says that not much of a proposal for innovation and other matters on the budget bill. This may not be the case in numbers, not in sums, but the financial bill refers to certain tasks that give full opportunity in these areas, e.g. possible integration in this area, the AVS Fund and the AVS production Fund of agriculture, where we would build agriculture and marine soil and take the best from both sides to strengthen food production. I would also like to mention what I could in my presentation of food policy for Iceland, i.e. that we will take up longer as a food-making land, which has not been made before. It has to do with all aspects of farming, farming, and fishing. I would also like to mention public shopping policies where domestic production should have high potential, etc., if all aspects of carbon track are taken into account. I mentioned earlier things about the livestock contracts. That is where even the Bible says: "There is going to be a resurrection of the dead. " On the other hand, we have a contract that went into effect on January 1, 2017, i.e. ... overa yearand a half. It goes for ten years, to 2026. If we want to change, e.g. The emphasis on gardening must be made in total, and we review that part of the market agreements. But my instructions to the review groups are that we work out the financial boundaries that the agreements are made in budgetary and financial programmes. That may be why there is little evidence of an attempt to renewal or innovation. But I can assure you what. As someone says, that work is full of gas.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u96	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Seafood and agricultural ministers for this review. I'm gonna kill on the seabed points on the fish fire bill. A minister came into it earlier, and they certainly increase the activity of fish farmers. We are now on our way to a professional fishing bill. I don't know if it doesn't change since last year, but I noticed in all the work that was on the pro board about this case in the last winter that it got more involved with what we had to do with the reports and other guests. But one of the main issues that I took, and the people stressed, was the risk assessment taken, especially in Isafjörður, which many did not feel comfortable and wanted to have a change in. I'd like to ask the minister: Can we expect a change in the bill that arrives in the fall? Then there's the resource fee, which I want to call resource costs, in a fishing road. The fact is that the project is always moving to fewer hands, from some 950 finished in 2005 to 380 today. Prime Minister spoke of her wanting to carry on the resource-related expenses. It is clear that the reduction of small and medium-sized structures is not good. As it is today, it is taken from the big veil. [[The president calls.]] May we expect more attention to small and medium-sized productions in the fall will be taken into account by more and more productions and now selling out the companies?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u97	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. First of all, about the fish fire, it is true that for various reasons, the fish fire bill arrived in spring and died on the committee. In fact, I think that when the bill came out, all the interest groups that feel that they are somehow connected with this subject, the fish fire, and they promote their views, including. to members of the committee. The emphasis is so wide. They are so heavy and so heavy, and there is strong conviction in everyone related to this that it is difficult for the committee to process such comments during the time it was dosed in spring. That may explain what was going on with that subject. I expect to present a bill in this field right now in November. Something's gonna be different. Clearly, we need to deal with the risk factors presented there and try to see how we can approach the viewpoint that exists there. It's going to be a little tricky, but it's the most basic thing in my mind that everything we're going to do in this regard we have to build on the basis of scientific counseling and research. There's something I'll never compromise while I'm responsible for this class. Fishing costs, decontamination, or small and medium-sized types. I will answer that question in a way that allows me to put in a bill, hopefully on either side of a month's convention, preferably before a month's convention. I expect that will result in an enormously good and intense and perfunctory discussion, as is always true of special taxes on production in the country. [[The president calls.]] I don't doubt it for a moment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u98	Mr. President. The Constitution of the government states that it is intended to provide a bill to legalize the change of hunting costs around the month's conventions, as shown in the symposium. It is noted that current fishing expenditure laws fall from value at the end of the year and that it is therefore necessary to renew them. It also shows that the revision of the Law is in accordance with the emphasis of a government contract. According to the government's Treaty, we need to reevaluate the laws of hunting fees as a primary objective of ensuring the nation's righteous share of the resource's profit and its survival. In addition, resource expenditure should be a payment for access to a limited resource and its financing. In spring, a bill of the Commission, a happy memory, was presented for the reduction of hunting fees, which was, in fact, made backwaters. If that bill had become reality, most of the success of the decline would have gone to parties like the Samherja, but it had recently been shown that Samherji had paid interest at 14.4 billion dollars. and making a lot of money. [[Up front.]] In view of Samhera's profits and other fishing supplies, it seems that it is not necessary to reduce fishing costs according to the shapes tried in spring. I'm asking the secretary if such a reduction is possible and if it is not better to keep the fishing costs unchanged, and then to use the funds to further sustainable resource use, research and development, as discussed in the Treaty. Does a minister even need reason to raise the cost of hunting in the light of good living? In the fishing field, I was going to add one quick question at the end. The minister mentioned a new ocean research vessel, but we cannot find how to finance that ship. We cannot see that the contributions are made anywhere, where to contribute money on a new ocean - research ship. I simply ask a minister: " Where, then, is financing to be found?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u99	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. When they ask me about the fishing fees, I'll tell you why. A senator like me answered my last lead: A bill from me about it comes up, like before. On either side of the month at the convention, a senator could rightly guess. I expect and I hope we can do it a month ago. I think we need time to get through the discussion that the bills in this field call for. It is true that the Member State states that the cost of fishing depends on the costs of the resource administration by the state and also on ensuring the State's share in the survival of the enterprises. When asked about whether I want my fishing fees to remain unchanged, I say that I want them to take into account how this country's deduction is swinging. I'll call attention to what. A senator assumes that there are probably hundreds of landmarks in the development of the country. With regard to fishing costs, the results of those standing in the fishing industry vary greatly, as shown earlier. We can find a lot of examples of companies who are doing well and about others who are doing very badly. That's how it is in all other businesses. My main point is that we should put that tax on with the thought that he will take the changes that happen to the work done each time. With regard to the ocean study ship, it's absolutely right by the ocean. Senator. As the bill's text shows, we expect it to come into the budget. My data suggests that the reason for the lack of financial support is not in spite of the unanimous approval of the Allegris at the meeting at the General Assembly is because the number column had begun and it was simply too late to enter the data to print into the bill. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u100	Mr. President. Thanks for the vague answers. I find it a little strange not to get the answer and that a minister does not express himself willing to answer whether to raise the cost of hunting, down, or leave it in place. Do I understand that a minister simply doesn't know what should happen around the month when it is time for the rise or decline of the fishing fees? It must have some effect on the budget we're discussing. As for the funding of this ship, can a minister tell me how much it's planned to go on this year? Will a financial committee add it? How will we spend that money, and where should it come from? It's only farming. I'd like to ask specifically about the EFTA sentence that has come up quite often. Last November, the EFTA Court concluded that the license system for import of raw and processed meat products, eggs and milk was incompatible with the EEA Convention's terms. The Court considered this to be incompatible with 5. The directive to confirm the import of such products. We can see at a Congressary file that the plan is to provide a February bill for importing raw meat products, thus responding to that judgment. On page 18. 280 of the budget bill shows that agricultural legal rights increase by 85 million. K. for action in relation to the results of the EFTA Court regarding the import of raw meat. For what exactly are the funds to be used? Is there any action a minister is taking beyond the next year's adjustment? What are the 85 million who should react to the destruction? What are we going to do with the money? I can't see from the financial bill exactly what to do with it 85 million.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u101	A respectable president. Hunting costs should be in my mind to take into account comments that include appeared in our discussion, i.e. bringing their pressures closer to time, tailoring to the abjectures, which all who spoke in our midst professed to have to be reformed. Whether fishing costs rise, decrease, or stand instead will fluctuate with the extract. So that we can see in all numbers the overall growth of the productions that, unfortunately, she is doing worse than did. Three, four years ago. It's just the way it is, and it's a fact. The tents will take into account that reality. I would point out that both in the budget adopted by spring and in the budget bill today, the rise in the fishing industry is expected to get worse. For example, the budget and budget are listed in the budget, which if I remember correctly, is about 7 billion dollars. With regard to the ship, it is approved by the Allied Council. This was a common proposal from the presidents of all political parties they proposed. I expect it, and I naturally trust that the budgetary committee, appointed to the representatives of all classes, will follow the motion made by the Council itself. It is my hope and my faith that it will be. I'd rather not, so I'll tell you what's going on. A senator quite out, and assumes that this project will come in. It is assumed in the proposed proposal that these may be 3.4 billion falling to the year 2019-22023. Regarding EFTA, we're working on a response to him. We've had discussions with each other. to both the ESA and the European Union. These 85 million go to most of the world's means of strengthening the Food Organization, e.g. in the market surveillance setting of any system, which was not intended to be affected by the results we received in November last year. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Simply put, we are building up our infrastructure to cope with new realities.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u102	A respectable president. This is a discussion and has been a bill of the government for the budget of 2019 C.E. The economic situation of the past few years has been characterized by growth and can be seen in many parts of society, economic growth and good employment conditions, high pay rates, and financial resources. Total agricultural spending for 2019 is estimated to be 16.5 billion and 33.5 billion on solid prices. I was going like a dog. paritaprevir Elíasdóttir Flandersdóttir Elisdóttir to mention a reduction in research, evolution, and innovation in agricultural matters, which I have a measure of concern, but the highest. Aggressor has explained that this is because of a reduction in agricultural education. I thought this should be in some sort of priority right now, since the government is setting up a highly ambitious climate policy and this sector should be of some importance to research and development. I hope this is something you can focus more on. Still, I wanted to mention one article here in a land that has not followed the interest - the sheep'flocks. It is not surprising that the problems of sheep farmers are great. The result of this article has been coming down in the past three years. Intermittent measures have been made, and the markets have been closed, leaving behind, and not desirable, in pursuit of them. In this regard, I would like to mention in my first speech that what is very important in this matter and in agriculture is food policy. I'd like to ask the highest. Agricultural minister where that work is and when a decision can be made.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u103	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. Yes, it is true that the survival of sheep farmers is not good. Nevertheless, I'd like to say that last December, the General Assembly responded well to the approval of additional contributions in this article in particular, up to 665 million. K. Nevertheless, this article contains sound, and we know that we are producing considerably beyond domestic consumption and have had difficulties putting aside other products abroad, although this year has been unusually successful so that supplies have the lowest convention this year. As I mentioned in my previous answers, we have an excellent conversation with sheepmen. I expect and trust that we will achieve together on the basis of the rules of the Treaty that include a new approach to this project. I really hope that we have good luck to come to an agreement on time in the fall so that we can run these changes most quickly at the end of the year. Hv. A senator asks about food policy. This work has started relatively recently. The task management there is to take the initiative to shape food policy for the country and to emphasize the importance of governments as reflected in the Treaty, along with the efforts to provide suggestions for the future. So I'm supposed to receive some preliminary reports in January 2019 and September 2019 with the objective that we can have a comprehensive strategy for this sector at the end of the year next year, i.e. at the end of 2019 C.E.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u104	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for these answers. So I will return to my case that our sheep make money, we are in, like the highest. A minister spoke of an earlier domestic contract that is now only two years old and was to be valid for ten years that I believe we should take advantage of. Sheep farmers themselves have talked about how in order to cope with this problem, we may need to look to the production, to reduce it in line with demand and markets for balance. In this contract, which is very good, and we could follow, perhaps, are the manufacturing factors that we would need to revise, and I hope that at work with sheep farms, their representatives will be new to this agreement. Maybe I'd like to ask the highest question. Minister whether this is being looked to or to new ways. We need to know about sheep farmers, and I feel that we need to listen to their voices because they have come up with good ideas in the problem that has been building in the last two or three years. Although you can see in this bill that this contract isn't a dream, so maybe it shouldn't be, I'd like to ask if they'll follow the deal that's in force, how that job is and where it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u105	A respectable president. It's true that in the contract there are manufacturing factors. There is a situation that both sheep and sheepmen want to replace somehow. Sheep farmers themselves have developed certain ideas to make it possible for 67 years of age and older farmers to abandon farming or to reduce farming. They've put in ideas of reducing proportion of intentions. They've developed ideas about freezing quality control funds. All three actions require adjustment, and before I can present a bill in that case, I need to have some conversation about how this would be done. I have not denied a single suggestion from the sheepfolds, but I have set it as a perfect requirement for us to adopt the agreement to emphasize the government as shown in the government covenant for changing the conditions of this article. It is absolutely impossible in my mind to extend the same contract as it is. We'll just find ourselves in the same situation we're in right now. In other words, what I'm stressing in these discussions is that the ideas on which the government deal is based will also come into these discussions. Happily, though, we are discussing this with the aim of getting together. There will be changes to the existing requirements in the domestic agreements, but similar factors with long-term exposure to the future and with some adjustments in the terms and conditions of this article. That's where the main thing in my mind is that farmers have more freedom to act than they do today.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u106	A respectable president. I'd like to make salmon farms my subject at a seafaring minister. I just returned from the Faeroe Islands, where the Western Council was visiting. Since a marine economist is the subject of scientific research and a safer setting of marine resources by following what is best and happening to it, I especially want to draw attention to the fact that we do not need to find the wheel again in this regard and that we have many members beyond what we can learn from e.g. The Norwegians, who are far ahead of us in terms of their salmon farms and of the Faeroes, who adopted almost the simple norms and adapted for themselves. It is also evident that every two weeks they measure lice, antibiotics, and dirt, waste, and pollution. The question is this, the highest. High - tech minister: How can it be possible for us to say that this is not an endless release of fish? Twice this year, Arnax fish have escaped. There have been fishing in the lakes and in the lake plains, both rivers that flow in the Gulf. In Seilá, there was a calming fire filled with sleeks and more rivers. After the accident at Eaglelaxi, four fished in a net. I'm really interested. I really want us to build salmon fire out of sense, but it's too late for that stuff when it's all in our pants. I say, look at those who have really worked on this with style and experience, and really do it to us. There's so little more to go, tops. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u107	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. We learn from both the Faeroes and the Norwegians. The bill I presented back in spring learned a lesson from what is done there in both places. The bill was based on a common vision of fish farmers and hunting rights. Sadly, the council failed to cooperate, and they included factors that included. depending on the factors that take place. A senator mentioned when monitoring lice, pollution, etc. It's on the bill I returned in spring. We've also had a meeting with the Faeroes. I sat two weeks ago in the Faeroe Islands, where we specifically reviewed all those factors. Last week, this was a Norwegian ambassador's office, and we went through the fish fire there. This is all to prepare for the work that hopefully enters November, which is a new bill for fish farming. However, circumstances in the areas vary greatly. Like what? A senator knows the currents of fire zones, e.g. In the Faeroe Islands, nothing but a relatively shallow, calm beach in Iceland. Fictions in Norway are cold, deep places, fjords in Iceland are home bases, including food of bottom fish. So it is never possible to apply one specific method from a distant area to a situation we face. We will always have our special situation in Iceland. I like it when it rains. One senator says that she wants to work on building salmon farms in Iceland. [[The president calls.]] I think we share a whole mind in it, but we are, I expect, in the same place in which it doesn't care how it's going to be done. [[The president calls.]] There's someone there who needs to be careful, and I agree with them by the senator's words. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But I am a spokesman, as the Treaty shows, that we have full faith that the fish fire will grow into fish. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u108	The president admonishes the speakers to give their speaking lesson in moderation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u109	Excuse me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u110	The apology received, and so do we.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u111	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Captain of the sea, please respond. Although I'm talking about strengthening and strengthening salmon farms, I'd like to start by hauling it all over the country by one, two, and three. V.E.G. According to a marine leader, this area is more shallow and calmer, which means that there is an even greater risk of pollution and further reason to consider that when killing from a certain vessel to place a new waste that is already built around the salmon fire. At least. between six and eight months, but not three months like Eaglelax did in spring. In March it was removed from the lakes of fire and replaced in June with a new one. The company got a little money for that or a tip but then nothing more. When thinking about nature's protection, you ask yourself, " Is it not necessary to send a clear message to an enterprise to follow a minimal rule on that subject? ' If we are going to destroy our rivers and the growth we have in connection with the wild salmon, that is to be serious. It is also serious if we are to prevent the possibility that broken homes will continue to build their salmon farms. We have to do this in full agreement with nature. So what if it costs a few more bucks? They say it's two or three times more expensive to set this up on land, but they only make money because they don't have to pay as much money as they can if they had to do with salmon here as they had to in Norway, where they're going to get it to the stock exchange. Finally, one question to the highest. Minister, also a agricultural minister: Where's the meat mountain that was here last year when 20% of all sheep's livestock supply was to be struck? I know it's the highest. A minister was a health minister in that government, but somehow this meat mountain seems to have disappeared, and you couldn't get one of them for a month.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u112	A respectable president. It's hard to swallow if you have to. A senator has only brown potatoes, cabbages, rhubara jam, green beans and gravy.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u113	And no cigarette chops.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u114	- And no cigarette chops. That's not good enough. [[Up front.]] But as we remember from a fine speech each. On Tuesday, at the conference, a senator may at least get red wine.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u115	...yes, yes, yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u116	I think that's a lot easier to talk about than I'm trying to get to the whole salmon fire on land. Why, then, has this not been done in other lands? That is more than just a matter to be done. We've got a little salmon farm in Iceland - Yeah, it's going fine. [[Up front.]] However, we have been raising much more pink than salmon on land, and there is some reason. [[Up front.]] In fact, I believe that salmon farms in Iceland will never be more than production of high quality products. We're always at some finish market. We will never be in the quantity of that product, less planning. I don't believe in it. Because I didn't tell you back then, nobody's gonna say that we don't have farm salmon once in a while in salmon fishing. That is how it is, and let us discuss it in that way. However, we have not prepared to do so by means of counter measures, but we are starting to do so now. A marine research agency is building to address this problem in a reasonable way. We're even. setting up a photo monitor in three rivers in the country that detects farm salmon and that is why the fish infested may be lit. So we take firm but slow steps. Hopefully, we can make this practical, considering that both broken and commercial barriers can be successful.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u117	You didn't get...
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u118	President. It is very interesting to consider these classes of languages as the highest degree. Minister up front. In the fishing field, we place about 6.5 billion in one of our largest exports each year, mainly in research and science. We were lucky over three decades ago to change the work conditions of their environment in a way that may indicate that today we are primarily offended about how to tax it. Trends have been increasing, innovation has increased, and the story has become self-sustained in all places. However, when it comes to agriculture, it seems that we have been attached in time. Without the importance of this article, we will thereby have a work programme that has been involved in the coming up in recent decades, with a steady decrease in weight, number decrease in number of employees, etc. who are active in this article. It is hardly self-sustained because it does not thrive without significant government support. I'm curious to know what's going on. Agricultural Minister: How do we really continue in this course? There are few countries with a higher protection rate on agricultural products than we do, anyway, in the Western world. There are few countries that directly support agricultural production in a higher proportion. The results for farmers are not visible. Farmers cannot be proud of the good results in this environment, which must be of utmost importance to us as we look to the long - term urban development of the country. The benefits of consumers are no one and actually worse than no one, since food prices are higher. Likely, a family of four would save some 70,480 worth of money. K. in their monthly expenses if there were food prices here on the pair of North countries. It is primarily the agricultural industry that explains the great difference. Therefore, consumers have not benefited from our great support of agriculture. I'm asking the highest. Agricultural Minister: How on earth do we break out of the cycle of agricultural production in our country?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u119	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's question. The short answer is, in effect, a denial. I don't think we're gonna break out of this vicious circle like a dog. A senator calls through the U.S. government budget we're talking about here. The questions you need. A senator will bring you good and good. I'd like to have that conversation with you. A senator. They're more out of the business themselves, but I'll be glad to come into it only. I see it happen through contracts that we're starting to work on. I don't know. A member of the council at what I've already said in my discussion today that we are speaking to sheep offering to make changes in the way support payments work on the basis of adaptation agreements. I also allow myself to state that, as indicated here, the debate on agriculture is not absolutely correct. I'm pointing at something like that. In recent years, huge changes in milk production, dairy farmers, have been experienced. I'm telling you, their production and the job the milk sector is with farmers in Iceland has done very good things, and first things. A senator named the seabed, for example, pictures from which he was drawn to the seabed. We also need to remember what is well done when we are discussing the agricultural business. Likewise, gardening is doing good things. We are in that position, despite what it is like to have our production exported gardeners in Iceland. So it's not all going to hell, as sometimes you might draw conclusions.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u120	President. Thank you very much. In particular, the minister's reply to his mention of the garden of Eden provides a fine example of how reasonable setting was shown, by leaving customs protection, and by increasing the amount of direct payment for farmers'farms, resulted in considerable improvement in the building of the article. They have successfully resisted the apparent competitiveness of import and have expanded their variety and product development. And, more importantly, increases in vegetables may be half that of what other domestic agricultural products have increased in the past two decades or so, or just since the time of these changes took place. Because it's the highest. A minister refers to milk production, and I agree that the changes in milk clots back then made in the model for the fishing industry changed the production conditions in this article to a tremendous degree. What is tragic, though, when we look up at the mistakes there made, it is that the article was immediately abated by competitive laws but is still subject to some kind of public merit. And in spite of all this revolution in milk industry, in spite of increasing economic efficiency, consumers have not benefited, since milk products have increased substantially above food prices in general, as well as famed, by the last 15% increase in butter and by more than 5%, the increase in dairy products is maintained above about 2% inflation. There's something wrong here. In fact, we have rewarded this management with more intensive public prices and increased tax protection for the article in greater profits. That's what's called behind when we're talking about money isn't less important than what we get for the money we put in the relevant sectors, and that we also guarantee that we as public in this country, consumers in this country, will also benefit from what we're doing in our individual sectors. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u121	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator again. That's right, we're supposed to discuss what consumers and taxpayers get for it. But I can't agree that consumers have had no pleasure in anything that has been done, e.g. In the milk, it is unfair to spread such a claim. I have heard other viewpoints and people have to reason more clearly on the matter than just saying it and adding no more evidence to it. The evidence that has been opposed to that claim is equivalent. When talking about competitive parts of the milk industry, which are very controversial, these principles can certainly be different from those of today, yet we must look forward to achieving a measure of practicality by what was done there. There's some reason why, for example. A telecommunications company is authorized to work together in competition. So, then, when we discuss milk, can we not do this in the same way? To illustrate: Is it not possible for us to make a similar contribution in our flocks in order to pay for certain items so that the economy is increasing, resulting in the return to consumers and manufacturers? I think it's possible. It's called for. We may need to make adjustments in the rules they are in today's competitive laws because they clearly created a measure of suspicion. Likely, their understanding of them is not the same everywhere. I declare myself ready to discuss it, and I'd like to. What I'm just referring to is that we also need to keep up what is being done. I'm telling you, it's full because we were arguing only about the milk industry, but it's also full of innovations that have arisen in recent years.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u122	Mr. President. During the last assembly, the Central Party requested a special discussion on the Iceland and the European Union customs agreements for agricultural products. We had in the middle of a simple exchange of communications with the highest. Agricultural minister on the case. I have not kept my opinion on this contract, which I consider to be extremely adverse in Iceland and the production of the Icelandic agricultural industry. The Central Party will move at this council a decree that this unfortunate agreement will be canceled and made new, especially in view of the uncertainty created by this agreement, already one of our major business countries, Britain, is leaving the European Union and hence from the customs agreements at the same time. Mr. President. The above - mentioned discussion on the customs contract stated the highest. A minister would have to take counter measures for Icelandic producers to face the large increase in imported agricultural products that are already under way for the contract. The results of this contract for national manufacturers are high, and it has been observed in the milk - industry Association that if this huge increase in tollovium imports, the MS work station in the Burg Valley may need to be closed, where 25 people work and is the largest workplace in the Doths. So I want to ask the highest. Agricultural minister: Where can we find the funds for the counters he has been proclaiming in this financial bill? Besides, I have not seen sheep farmers and fur farmers as well. [[The president calls.]] It would be interesting to hear what a minister intends to do about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u123	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech. There was a pleasant and good discussion of the customs agreement with the European Union, many aspects of that subject, very interesting talks, some of which. There's another sound now in the eraser to that deal with many of the people who came to make it, but I think we also need to remember that the reasons for this work to be done at the time of the day were. how it worked on agriculture in Iceland. There was an appeal to the Icelandic government sometime between 2010 and 2011 to negotiate with the European Union on increasing exports from Iceland into the market. At that time, the Icelandic government wanted to give something back. If we cancel this contract, we may need to set some goals, i.e. if we see the synopsis proposed here. True, I haven't seen her, and I'm not going to make any further comments about her until she shows up. In this regard, the budget for counter measures or budgets for the sheep trade or the animal industry is exactly right in the backwaters. A senator says there are no special funding involved. As I said in the past, there is a slow walk in budgets or financial laws in terms of agriculture. The biggest reason for this is in my mind that budgetary funds for the seminary are tied to a contract of ten years. He is all respected, subject to the state of state. That's the range the people here are created by the Generals to make changes in individual habitats' work conditions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u124	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister before his past, and quite clear answers to questions he has been asked about. Maybe I'm thinking about something like some of the others here. On the one hand, I want to focus on agricultural activities and on the other. I notice that when the government introduced an ambitious climate plan, 6.8 billion over the next five years, there are also. published measures involving carbon binding and improved land use. We are seeing some of the recovery of wetlands and forestry. However, what disturbed me only in this discussion has been found to be that in the European Union's contracts we now have to take part in this ambitious action to reduce emissions here by 40%, the carbon binding in itself is not going anywhere, i.e. We can't get anything for the tree industry, the forest or the changing land use, the recovery of wetlands, etc., it's just where we reduce the emissions we're supposed to achieve our goals. So we are not taking advantage of the opportunities we have, but we may not be there in the European Union. I'd like to know at the highest. Minister if this would be unwise, because some changes can still be made, at least Trying to work on the change, and to agree that our opportunities will be new and count and that it is not wise to do so before time expires and that we are intervening in it. And if this was the case in this way in the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u125	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. In terms of climate change and the plan of action, this is as shown in the current issue. A senator's huge, huge, fundamental steps are being taken, and it is reasonable that questions arise regarding how the funds are being put to the fore. The discussion has been considerable, binding to whether this includes our books, our wetlands plans, our forestry plans. There's a difference of opinion about that. I think the main line is that it doesn't count in yet. I'm very sorry about this, and I talked about it from my legal side that the agriculture in Iceland, i.e. Its food share, agriculture, is the second largest emissions behind transport. Thus, there are many opportunities for agricultural activities that can be used to help us reach the target set. Most important, those who work in the industry, agriculture, are eager to exert themselves in this area. There are opportunities for governments to cooperate with and cooperate with the sector. It's actually the sea. The sheep trade is primarily among them. We have an agreement between the sheep farmers, the Environmental and Resource Ministry and the Department of Agriculture on a project we have received. entered as a first step. I'm here to have my confidence that we can do much better in the area of agriculture than we'll see in a plan it looks like. But it is full of will to take more and more steps.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u126	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister very much for the answers. We're on the same page, and we're not surprised. True, I would have wanted to go much further than I was talking about. I'd like to have seen in this government action programme, 6.8 billion, that when it comes to the carbon binding and changing land use, this should be part of a new market agreement. We need to take a much longer discussion about this. I'm just going to talk about the water main because of it. Congress officials have been charging the highest charge. Minister on clear answers to the resource costs in the marine road. It's like some people in this room would seem unnatural that the resource expenditures will swing up and down after they make up and down. I find it hard to understand why it is difficult to understand that it is. But okay. I notice, however, that in a budget on goals and ways, Iceland's entire competitiveness in fishing and fishing conditions should be evaluated compared to neighboring countries and improved. One thing that certainly affects the competitive status of the fishing industry is, of course, the resource expenditure. There's no country, as far as I'm next able, except a few species of fish in the Faeroe Islands, which are bound to resource costs, the fishing road is more or less government strength. I'm asking, "When can I get to the top?" A minister of any conclusions in this complete assessment? Then the question is, When do we expect a table to produce suggestions or ideas that a resource charge involving fish farming?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u127	A respectable president. In itself, it is no wonder. A senator is on the same level, we haven't been in the habit of scraping each other, so I'm going to shoot him a little bit. It is true that in a climate management programme, it would be desirable to have part of a new market agreement. Part of the thought is that it's coming into it. What is discussed, e.g. With regard to the sheep trade now, there are adaptation agreements, and I count full opportunities to connect it. Yes, it is remarkable when we talk about taxation, whether it is a fishing route or any other business, that people think of it as a stable income base, that it does not change, and that we can always assume that the same amount of money comes from taxation on individual or company income. It's not like that. The tea tax will swing up and down. Similarly, fishing fees in the fishing road have been designed to take into account the produce and normally sway. I hear, however, that members of Congress are crying very hard that the sea route is not always on high ground. In many ways I can weep for it too, he makes it a big part of society, but unfortunately, that's just not the reality. The result is based on many factors, such as markets, and so on, the likely competitiveness of the fishing road on foreign markets. We are in many ways sliding it, e.g. with the stress of the last tax on income tax, the resource tax, by stress of a special tax on fuel, which is the carbon charge. These are taxes that in our local countries do not pay the same way. In February, I hope you will find out the cost of fish farming. Work on this assessment starts, actually, I don't have a date for it. [[The president calls.]] We are still discussing how we are going to do this work, but it will be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u128	A respectful president of the bill for the 2019 budget is expected to make more than 68 billion dollars. to work on the responsibilities of the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs, i.e. 7.4% of the total budget. The increase from year to year is over 5.6 billion, which is added to 4.5 billion. increase of the year before. It is estimated that the overall transport growth rate is about 41.3 billion, an increase of 12.3% between the years. Road, national, and port roads are covered by about 1.5% of GDP. This increase is best done by 23.5 billion. In all, more than one third of each year's budget has been raised from 2017 to 17.7 billion to 23.5, as mentioned earlier. This is expected to increase almost any other transport projects. These include snowstorms, sharks, public transportation concentrations, and flying contributions. Despite significant increases, road maintenance and construction are still needed, but it is clear that there is much work to be done in building up the transport system all and to bring acceptable prospects. Nevertheless, the increase in proposals presented in the bill for next year's budget is remarkable. It is hoped that citizens will soon be aware of the benefits of a huge increase in weight, which will increase by about 2 billion from year to year and will be 10 billion in the next year. It is good to say that only three years ago, the maintenance price was less than 6 billion. Then there are less than 14 billion new donations in the road system next year. Later in the month, I hope to introduce the transport program to the next five and fifteen years, and I look forward to an upbuilding discussion with members of the Parliament. In particular, telecommunication is being carried on by the national initiative in the construction of fiber optics, Iceland light-related, with a market failure and a planned completion of the project 2021 according to protocols. A year to come is the fourth year by which the state strengthens the telecommunication by means of telecommunications funds, which supports some 450 million each year. Already a fiber - optic volume has been negotiated in 4,000 places, and in the following three years the remaining 1,500 places will be negotiated. The Internet security issues will then be taken firmly, but in this country we are at a weak risk for Internet security and the quality of the local software but in many similar countries. It is important to promote these matters and I will submit a communication program as well as a network security bill shortly in the fall and rely on the council's solidarity in bringing them into better shape. Mail messages are planned to disable exclusive rights and open the market for competition as soon as full-time services are secured. much more than 2 billion dollars are now growing by 4.9%. Of these, more than half go to the national community plan and target areas, nearly 1.1 billion a.m. These budgets have increased substantially since 2014 when they were over 400 million. K. The budget will be well-explored, as the members of the Parliament can study in a new developed programme that passed through the council in spring, i.e. for 2018•2024. At the end of the month, applications for contributions made for the specific projects of the parish and the following will be opened for voluntary applications based on the individual measures set out in the programme, including: on public transportation, as well as telecommunications shopping, as well as telecommunications and telecommunications stations. In the end, resources for Iceland's National Publications Index can be reported to decrease by 3.6% between years, to an estimated 1.9 billion dollars. This is mainly explained by the fall of temporary donations, the contribution of border-based contributions, and the contribution to the development of a new national file system, which will slow down the development of this system. Improvements in the national registration system have already resulted in the introduction of all certificates and reports from national records and real estates electronically in Iceland. Then, for the first time, individuals are registered to apartments and family information and foreview available. I've concluded my case, Mr. President, and considered key elements on budget bill 2019.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u129	The president would like to inform members of the panels that the series has been moving so that you can look at what the proverb looks like.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u130	Mr. President. I want to thank you for this from the highest. Minister. In short, I would like to discuss what is involved in the maintenance and innovation of our country's airports. This is evident when you examine data involved in the fact that during the past decade, contributions to new projects and maintenance of airports in Iceland have been extremely low. When men look at this in the context of the section after the collapse of the bank, it seems to me that this can really be the part of the financial situation that we may have had the worst in our lives. Numbers from the last seven, eight, nine years have been practically wiped out. Now I'm asking the highest. A minister on the issue: How will these matters be handled in the next year's budget and then in the years to come? Another is the construction of a new air base in Reykjavík. In June, a committee returned to the Department of Transport for selecting a location for an air station in the city of Reykjavík. I'm interested in hearing from the highest. Minister if there is any authority in these matters and what men intend to do. Then I ask about the settlements and a great community plan that we agreed on here in June, the integration that may be a bit new according to the way this has been done before. It has been integrated in 52 focus points and put together into the regional and regional based strategy, as well as the country's jet fuel equation. It discusses the air development fund, more openings into the country, and that structure. Then I'd like to hear from the highest. Minister on Istavia's ownership and possible involvement in the transport agency's policy to the Istavia policy on how to run the business, what the State's purpose on business is, and what their aims are for the operation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u131	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for fine questions and can agree with him that I just think there's a weakness in our budgets to fly at least from the collapse. There have been a number of changes in the income range since the time when very many expenses were dropped and applied to a stream of water that was probably necessary and clear. Also taken out of Istavia to finance other things that have slipped into a government fund. If I recall correctly, there is a total sum of $3.4 billion anywhere. If they had slipped into the international flight at that time, we would not be talking about the problem here. Then we would be in the same envyful position as my colleagues in the North. I was at a conference this summer, talking about income bases in different transport systems, and they all said, "Yes, about the international flight, we don't have to talk about it, it's about itself. It is exactly part of this tenure, which may have been lacking by Istavia, the government, to place special ownership policies on the institutions and companies of the State. This project is a financial cooperation project that will take the stock of Istavia and ours, who then have the trade for the Department of Transport. There are all kinds of ideas that could secure the management grounds of the country's airports, change them considerably, whatever the way they left, whether by the means that Istavia would dominate more airports in direct operations, such as Cheflavík, Reykjavík, Akureyri, and Egress sites, e.g. all the international airports, and then a service contract would be made for the rest, or whether people would make the way that has also taken place, making a lucrative claim to Istavia, which would then be used to support the flight. Now I could not answer all the questions because they were many and interesting, but I will try to find that in later answers. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u132	Mr. President. Thank you for those answers. I'd also like to come to know from the Pontta AlIIis, who next year is the 100th anniversary of a flight in Iceland. On September 3 of the next year, 100 years have passed since the first plane launched into the air in the Hydromosis. I just want to get them messages to the top. A minister and ask him to consider whether working with the root of the country to celebrate the milestones that will take place next year. If we look at the unique projects of rural development and what I think in recent years have done best, we've got fiber optics, Iceland light-related, and the nation's telecommunications as the highest level. The minister entered his case earlier. There are 4,000 connections and approximately 4 connections. $1,500 to go. I don't think much of anything built up the country and its forces so fast. These services and technologies into the countryside have had the greatest impact on development in recent years. I was with him. Egilsdóttir A week or two ago, in connection with Iceland, which is more relevant to the countryside, I wondered, " Am I to look at my villages and wide around the country? ' I even look like they're getting a little bit ahead of us because there's never a competitive side to 200 to 300 people, 400 people, 500 villages wide and wide around the country. So I believe that it would be a very strong task to export Iceland all light - related to these villages that would make them very strong.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u133	A respectable president. Yeah, I'll agree with what. Senator, the Iceland project is light-related probably our best building project. When we discuss it in a foreign field, we also feel that this is the case. That's right. That's right. That's right. A senator, although the market companies were to care for the urban core and, in many cases, have made it impossible to do so everywhere. Technology has been such that microwaves can also be used to amplify the old filament system. I think it would be a good idea to consider whether any sites will be left behind when the end of the project is approaching and that the market companies have not been involved in the other aspects, but of course the project involves that 99.9% of homes and companies will be directly linked. I just wanted to come in and see what it was. A senator asked about in his first answer, about contributions to flights, and how we respond next year. In that case, the contribution to flying aviation is increasing by 336 million per year to an increase of some 370 million. K. budget increase 2017 and then aim to reach 2.5 billion but less than 2 billion years ago. Humans have admitted that this problem exists and that we need to do better. Regarding the dramatic event that flights have a 100th anniversary next year, it can be noted here that it is not directly related to the budget that we have started a policy - perhaps not later loved by 100 years - and it would be great if we were able to unsniff it on the 100th anniversary of a flight and perhaps do something more about it and hopefully answer most of the questions we've had in the past for a few months that are relevant to the support of the international flight as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u134	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. The secretary of transportation and rural management for his review of the areas he owns. During the past week, seven ministers presented ambitious climate plans. Just like the highest. Transport and Regional Minister said that climate change has no borders on it. Climate change is awesome, and we are reminded of it every day in many parts of the world. Because of the high government's emphasis on climate, I retraced a section of the national financial bill on road transport for action on carbon emissions from private use. It was only required to appear in the section of this Ministry of Transport, since the contaminating of the private car is the one that causes the most carbon emissions in the country because of our lack of real civilizations. What do I see? No. Public transportation funding is increasing by 150 million. A k., which may seem fun to be the same amount of money that the government decided to add to itself in the form of assistants. 150 million. K. increase to public transportation throughout Iceland. The budget bill tells us that this budget has a share. to use in accordance with current national decision-making agreements. There is no discussion of funding for new projects on public transport, and nothing on the largest urban area in Iceland, the capital area, where 70% of the population lives, except for the rest of the tourists. Nothing about major public transportation to show that the government is seriously involved in the global climate crisis. The capital area is not that big. We can easily perform miracles there. That's why I'm asking the highest. Transporter: When will the government take part in this vast task regarding the future of all the earth?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u135	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir for bringing these important issues to the attention and here for the actions and actions of the Government on climate issues. Like what? A senator may well know at his presentation that for energy exchange in transport, environmental minister has about 1.5 billion dollars. It is true that the increase in public transport ranges from 3.2 billion in the current year to 3.4 billion. I think it's exactly 161 million. Well, at least according to the data I have here. However, the main aim of this five - year community transport project is that the number of people who have made it tripled over the country's public transportation has been the case. Of course, this isn't a high percentage of those who pass through that road, but if I remember correctly, they go from 1% to 3%. It can be said that the project went quite well. That's why it has to be re-proved. That's what we're doing at the Ministry, working to support that project. Nevertheless, public transportation also belongs to rural areas. In cooperation with rural areas in the capital area last year, the Department and Vega were working to assemble packages that might appear to have a total of over 80 billion, 85 billion, related to public transport in the capital area and the necessary projects to be done on the infrastructure. Some have additive effects, i.e. Some projects benefit both parties. A transport plan is to try to answer these points. Then we need to make up a conversation with the local community in the capital area to finish the rest of the show. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u136	Mr. President. That's exactly the number, 150 or 161 million. K. What's in the bill doesn't match the information on the Ministry's homepage. So I understand that a minister is a little uncertain about the numbers. We are, too, even though this is not a large sum of money. But we are discussing another budget of the government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, and time is incredibly fast, too, the days of the wheat bread have come to an end. There have to be some operations, tops. Minister, if this is not to be the most useless government of all time. It means not just purging and praising, but action must take place. A cutoff of carbon will be achieved by permanent reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. You can't do it with anything else, not by appointing groups or sitting in conferences. It's the private car that produces half of the emissions produced here. In the capital area, about 70% of the population is living and claiming that they intend to build public transportation requires that they begin. The city line on which all rural areas in the capital area agree to attack must begin. The budget bill we're asked to agree to apply for the next year, 2019. However, the next election is 2021, so we have less than three years. We've got to board sleeves. When that's what we're talking about, it's only a year and then it's a year of election. Public transportation will not be built overnight. The rural communities have been contacted in the capital area, and they all agree, but they are waiting for a minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u137	A respectable president. I think it's possible to say that the construction of the road system for the last few months is very much an indication of how functional the government is. There has rarely been as much work as there have been during the past few months in maintenance as in repairing the damage and subsiding of the State's value, as many have experienced and experienced as long as driving. The same is true of our actions in climate. They were introduced last week. They're in the next 12 years, up to 2030, where we're going to reach certain goals. These measures are clear and well stated that this will be possible. The rural areas in the capital area have also had planks that reach to 2030. They did not intend to build all the changes needed to be made in the road system in one year. It'll take all this time. This conversation between state and rural society in the capital area was never completed last year before local elections. But it is now possible to do so, and we will aim to do it, because we share that common vision, both the rural areas of the capital, and the government, and that I think most of the body of Congress, is that it is important to promote public transport in the capital area, so much of the population can take advantage of it to a far greater extent than it has done. But to do so requires a better system than we have, and we need to look at the possibilities elsewhere in the country. The energy exchange in transport, which we cross into new energy cars, to most of the electricity cars, will help us to achieve the goals we have set before 2030. The interesting fact is that this is not a mere commitment, some threat, and a challenge that we need to face. It's also economic positive for the community, we use national energy, and for the people in the country who are going to have these cars that are cheaper in business than the current cars.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u138	A respectable president. A climate operation program is not as clear as we don't know what the measures are, and we don't know how effective the procedure will be. It's just like most of the other stuff on this budget bill; one large pack of us are going to do this, give them 6.8 billion for it, and we'll do what we can. It sums up the problem, both in budgetary and financial programmes, and in the Action Programme. I'd like to discuss only the coming transport program. The budget will affect that transport program. We accept money that is going to go into the transport program that has not yet been established. Then the wrong end has begun. We're here to take the transport discussion in the right place, i.e. with the financial programme, where we define the box on these budgets that are supposed to cost so much money. Now we're supposed to go along with some kind of transport plan and add them to the budget or something like that. You can't quite figure out the order in which this is all going to happen. There are other aspects of transportation that I would like to ask a minister. On page 18. 271 reports work on animal tunnels. My understanding was that this was a treasure - filled project. So I don't understand why we have limited expenses. It's probably not part of the budget vector. The same is true of new exports at Akureyri Airport. As far as I'm concerned, the last funds were made for the most part of my life. I ask you, what was done with the money last year if you did the same thing now, spend the same job?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u139	A respectable president. A few questions. Thank you, they're fine. Regarding climate and the cost of each operation it has been observed to continue working on it. This was the first stage of a presentation of what we are about to do, and it is important to promote it at the beginning of the Council what the government policy is, what the pack of action looks like. Then it will clear off its heads and have come a different distance. With regard to transport and financial programmes, I believe that we are presenting this in the right context. The five - year budget was adopted in spring, followed by a transport plan now, and will be a five - year plan according to financial planning. True, next year there will be a new financial agenda, and this will no longer happen. But there may be up to three years before a new road program will arrive unless we pick it up here because there is more to do, more to do. I think we're on the right rhythm. It is very important that the transport plan, especially the five-year plan, be properly in line with financial programmes. It doesn't have to be on a crown because we know that an invitation can be lower and higher, and it can be a delay in projects, since it can turn into a foundation. This needs to be somewhat similar, so the message from this room is the same whether we agree with financial or transport plans. In terms of limited expenses and the animal tunnel, certain limited expenses are dropped. For example, the Army trip is running out of space, dropping certain limited expenditures, but the animal tunnel remains in accordance with the current transport programme. Of course, there's money to be made, and they're there, if I've understood the senator's right.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u140	A respectable president. Don't let me start talking about General. But for climate action, they are now asking for money, so we should know how much it costs. You can't have an empty check here and give us any money for the procedures we're going to take, but we don't know what the results will be or how much they'll cost. Let's just cross to my community and favourite goal, to promote sustainable development based in the financial programme, which measures the results of which are measured by a national forward rate. Now, several factors, measures, to achieve this goal have fallen out, the project Breakouts built up is no longer in financial planning, i.e. It's in a financial programme, but it's not in financial terms. Some international projects have been added, such as participation in ESPON, NAPA, and NORA, as well as research in rural areas. I wondered how these measures, i.e. capitalism, the specific project for parishes, international projects and regional research will meet the objective that the land-relevant extension rate will remain unchanged compared to the 2017 position, based on how demographic changes will affect this same stratosphere. The only way I see to maintain the same straggility is to move to people between 14 and 65, or to move to people in the age range that is missing in order to equalize the age distribution in all parts of the country, including the capital area. It does not mean moving people from the capital area into the country to maintain an equal proportion because they will be more shaken in the capital area or vice versa. I just wanted to learn how the actions under the law will achieve those goals. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u141	A respectable president. We're gonna go for a second. A senator has previously discussed the standards of how things are going, what goals they set, and whether they can be attained. We haven't completely agreed on the senator's viewpoint and, on the other hand, the policy we've agreed on, so I don't know if we can water it here in this brief period of time. Of course, the purpose is to create a community that in individual parts of the country, there will be no major error in the threshold. Rather, there will be some powerful communities, fairly equal to normal communities in different parts of the country, in different parts of the country. About a unique project, like a rough one. This is an important task. That's what's going on. Even if it does not have some special financial team, these teams are involved, perhaps one of the most important ones, in which we deal with the most fragile communities. We're still trying, and it was defined initially, to intervene before they broke. These settlements are fragile, and to be honest, at least two communities have been graduated from these packages. If I remember correctly, there are about seven settlements in this mission today. I think we can just say that this project, on its own, gave a great deal, that it was wise. This has been overdone by means of practical advice, research, to assess how it went. The evaluation was that we would continue on that course and could be adjusted only by individual tasks. Although the text of all that the State is doing may not be exactly correct, failure is still a part of a series of projects. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u142	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The secretary of transportation and unit for his inputs here today. I have to say, probably as most people do, that I'm excited to see a well-known transport plan. Of course, there are a lot of things in which we senators have handled and have done over the years, but I think we can always do better, I've always said that, and I've always needed money everywhere, and especially in this giant transport system. However, there is an increase of more than 12% between years, which must seem quite good. So I'm reasonably satisfied with the 42 billion under this bill. Also, when they left the country for the summer, they were given an additional addition to the amazing maintenance that is under which I think very many people were aware. There was something going on in the road. I'd also like to celebrate an increase in winter service. I hope that it is not only in the high - traffic defenses in the capital area, although it is urgent, because there is, of course, an enormous amount of traffic. But we also know what is needed in large areas and where there is a need for good winter service, and it has actually been increased to some extent. I just want to come in and ask the highest questions about public transportation. Minister on to them, but this is a very short time. There are doubts about the new transport laws ensuring adequate access to land parts to public transport. I'd like to ask the minister if he thinks they can handle it. If not, whether or what we need to do in order to do so. As we know, public transportation has contributed funds to support them, e.g. In my district, where there's been a lot of tail in the past few years. [[The president calls.]] Above all, this question is about the legal environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u143	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the application of public transportation and the legal basis. This is something that we need to consider, of course. What I learned from a previous talk with someone else. This project, public transportation in the country, was not for many years, and it was initiated. Because it was not okay with the law base around it. Sadly, there were too many too many road routes between the rural, national, and local areas that took on these public transportation and, on the other hand, individual companies who were driving on the most successful route, perhaps taking a little off the public transportation. I've been meaning that the law had become clear enough, but it's not long since it went into effect. I know that many people have been somewhat afraid of using themselves within them because of the time they had for that law. I think it would be very wise for us both in the Ministry as well as in the Senate to lay down on it and to get a clearer view of it. That's what I'm talking about. A senator mentioned the project, I think, that it must be said that there has never been so much work done in the maintenance of the road system as well as in the last few months, that we added 4,000 million to 8 billion. It has simply seen a place on every road in every part of the country. Many roads were completely destroyed. There is something very different than that. At the same time, we also increased the service over the past year, winter service, not only in the capital area, but also across the country, for both tourism and at work and school attendances. [[The president calls.]] The increase in the next year is about 708 million, so we will be and will continue on that course. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u144	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. What I may have been wondering about here is that because the national body is not a government, they don't have a legal basis. I think that's what they're wondering. The rural communities have been assigned to them as we know they have been assigned. It is important that, as with the Council of EI and elsewhere in the East, it be clear whether this foundation is present, whether we want to put it over our heads, and whether it is possible because there is no personal government around the national community. They were also misunderstood at the beginning, i.e. Donations of cash, jewelry, or other valuable personal property. It was an incredibly strange transition we've talked about here before, at least I'm pretty often. I wanted the rest to ask the highest. Minister on the domestic flight. We've heard that a lot and often, and we're sitting in a lot of places that talk about the Scottish way, and I know that it's the highest. A minister had a group that was working on those matters. I remember that he was supposed to have returned on the autumn days of some form of advice on whether the international flight could be classified as public transportation or whether this Scottish route would be on its own or part of something bigger. We know that all of this takes time to introduce it because it is important to consider, and I tell the whole circle, it is not enough for the people to get out of their territory through some subsidies, but we want the relatives to get there, too, without half the hand leaving because of the cost. This is one of the things I'd like to ask the minister about: Has there been any suggestions, or when would they be expected? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u145	Mr. President. This committee, which has been inspecting the domestic flight, has even been the case. Just looking at the export of the Scottish route has not been completed. This is connected to some of the things we discussed, during the course of time. paritaprevir Njáll of Trausti Friðbertsson, who is, in fact, president of that committee, consulted by the group. Of course, this has to do with the other government's support of the flight, the public service agreements, and how we are trying to subsidize or pay on the construction of international airports. That's where we're adding. We added significantly last year, some 370 million, to the same amount again this year. The support, then, is becoming about 2.5 billion. In the Scottish route, the work presented here on the autumn days of 2017, the group that had investigated it back then, was saying that there could be a range of 600 to800 million. Of course, there is a possibility that this support system could be superseded to make at least part of the 2.5 billion, since the fact is that these 2.5 billion of us have not paid themselves for the increase of passengers or in a much lower plane expenses or that others have taken advantage of this. True, it is true that the other day's business ventures showed that international flights were never as cheap, but it was compared to the cost of pay. But what's wrong is that the price between Iceland and other countries has become so absurdly low, if you think it's expensive, but if it's compared, it's not. Nevertheless, the fact is that it costs 30,000,500,000, even more, up to 200,000 bucks. for a four-man family, flying east. [[The president calls.]] Clearly, this is not likely to work, so we must keep working on it, but it is not over.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u146	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. A secretary of transportation for his history today. After this discussion, I wondered, " Surely we have seen that the transport has been on the move in recent months, and we have lost weight, and in the summer, we were warned that the malaria machines were operating in many parts of the country. ' But it's just so much more that we agree on it, me and the highest. A secretary of transportation, that there is a great need to be given about the national road system. I'm not going to tire him out by mentioning all these projects that are enormously expensive and cost much more than 4 billion or 8 billion. Even if it's a good thing to do, it's not a new thing. The waterway, e.g. and the kallanes, a double drive there, and so on. I have hoped that when we see a road program appear, this will be handled by the people and the tourists and the tourists who are taking the lead in a forward and comprehensive transport program that will address all of this. It's a completely different setting today than it was a few years ago. Not only are we talking about increasing numbers of people, increased numbers of automobiles, increased number of tourists, we're also talking about a huge increase in road weight, fish transport, as well as about fish farming, much more transport everywhere. We're looking at something quite different than it was a few years ago. I'm gonna ask you one question in this first speech, on the implementation of EU rules on the employment rights of a truck driver and a bus driver. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The end of September 10 was at hand. [[The president calls.]] Is there a secretary's business to extend a delay that these drivers have to renew their rights?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u147	The President begs members of the council to respect the deadline.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u148	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech and the question. We are at the conference's discussion of budgeting in 2019, and although it was tempting to discuss a road program, I intend to resist that temptation. However, I agree with the senator on the roads, and I was glad to hear him say that here in a pita because I also listened to the senator a few months ago, and he did not agree that in the last few months, this was a big walk in the road. I'm glad that that's the way it is. I agree with the senator that it takes a lot of work. When it comes to transportation, we will discuss it, individual roads and projects, as well as whether it is sufficiently forward and if we are doing enough at the time below. It is important that we realize that we cannot do everything at once. We saw this last year when we were volunteering. Then I was here to discuss specific projects in Hafnarfjörður of what. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, a council member of the Parliament, with exactly the same discussion, budget. Then I was describing the projects we were going to do in the current year. They were invited out, but no one invited them, there was a lot to do here in the capital area. Of course, even if we want to do very much, everyone must be ready to participate. Regarding the question presented here regarding the renewal of the rights of those who have a further test, it came out of September 10. I think most people have already gone through that. Of course, not nearly all of us are. I've always felt it necessary to review this procedure, how we do it, both seriously burdensome to have to take a course for many days, as well as the cost. [[The president calls.]] I think we need to take a look at this. [[The president calls.]] I've had discussions with several people in the past few weeks about this, and we'll see how we're doing this, but we didn't get along at the time. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u149	Still asking the president to respect the time limit for ministers and senators.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u150	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The minister's answer, and even though I can be happy that the malbabunding machines were started in the summer, that is not exactly what I was talking about, I was talking about new projects. We're calling for a new operation. My squad has previously taken real estate fees for discussion at Generals sales. Everyone knows that the basis for these charges is the real-estate estimate set by an institution in town. It has been observed that the payers of real estate have had to endure large increases in this taxation without any elected agent being at the foundation of that taxation. Real estate expenditures have been highly fluctuated and increased dramatically and far beyond the general price. There is one group that has been particularly troubled in this relationship, there are elderly people who have a vacation home, and who have the greatest difficulty paying off these happy moments and those of their family. What scheme has a minister to reevaluate these charges and to lay them down, and what would his objective be revised to them? I'd also like to ask a minister about Herlf. First, when a new ferry arrives in the winter, what will be the strategy if the land - to - earth crew closes after it arrives? Is e.g. to plan how to handle the equipment and how to use the oldlf? And is there any assessment of how to expand land estate so that it can function better?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u151	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for bringing up the real estate fees, and it is true that the members of Stockholm's council have done so before. They have not necessarily been satisfied with the answers I have given, but I have pointed out that it is in the power of the local society, that form, that is, the income of the rural society, and not the state. It is certainly a government law, and it is not a matter to take such a discussion during the council. The increase in real-estate values is, of course, a fact because market prices are increasing. In many cases, it is positive for those who have such houses but are at the same time burdensome when they are paid off. I can totally agree that it can be a real burden to older people who have had their own cottage for a long time and are not about to sell it to a great deal of increase, because some sale into that area has resulted in their estimate of property. However, it is in the hands of each department administration to cross it, and within certain frames it can move to the percentage, and in many cases, rural communities have done so. It may be to them to discuss this exact aspect, unless they want to take over a business exchange between state and rural society that, of course, could be possible, of some of which the rural communities have to make income, and they could discuss whether this is an unfair way to do so and so on, but there is no plan to change such things at the moment. However, we are constantly involved with our rural communities on normal income exchanges so that they earn enough money, so this case could come into the table. I'll take my time here with General, but, of course, General will sail when he gets to the Landing Islands when he can, if it's not possible, he'll sail in the Shrew. [[The president calls.]] The equipment we've done and what we've been doing. A senator knows that while we're studying on a new ferry, it'll be ready for him.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u152	Mr. President. In view of the newly diagnosed climate program, it is interesting to consider how the transport of funds speaks to the environmental objectives of the government and the Paris Convention. Not everyone can buy Tea, said the highest. Minister of this chair a year ago, up to the day, and possibly this is the highest attitude. A minister who determined that half of the proposed increases in carbon charges in the last government were reinstated. However, it seems that the Minister has taken a snout if defined its support for bans on the registration of fuel and diesel cars and should be welcomed. This meditation leads me to the capital area where transportation really does not affect the climate. Naturally, then, the question arises because we are discussing the next year's budget: Where is the capital in the transport sector? Where is the priority for necessary transport reforms in Reykjavík? Where's the city line? I'm asking the highest. Minister: How do transportation authorities deal with the city authorities in financing this project? Why not make the most of the investment money? Where traffic is gained, and accidents have happened, the minister will be heard one day. Speaking of the high incidence of accidents, it was also noted that Grindavík Road is mentioned in an escape route in the financial budget, which is not on transportation funds, nor in the Ministerial Action Programme. However, it is better than the discourse on Reykjavík, since transportation in the city is not perplexing. Yet, it says in a government contract, by permission of the president: In setting priorities, different sites, tourism, and safety standards will be considered particularly. If not at the top, why is the capital area not very high on priorities from that statement?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u153	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the questions I found in many ways interesting. No, not everyone can buy the Tesseract and will not be able, but the senator felt that it might be possible in the capital area. [[Up front.]] I haven't changed my mind. Not everyone can buy Tea. The trend, however, is that there is an ever - increasing rate of cheaper cars. That is why it is important that we build up the wood at the same time as we impose on the budget and weigh taxes and other factors that make people forced or do not have a choice and just have to pay, so that they have this possibility. That's why we're doing it in rhythm. That's why we took an idea, probably from what. A senator and her party when the member of the government was going to put on a large national tax. We reduced it, but we're putting it in because gradually we're able to build up the wood. This is what was most interesting to me at the moment. Senator. The senator kept asking: "Where is the budget for the capital area? Where are they? Where are they, and where are they here, and where are they here? A vice president of the same party has criticized us and these budgets for right and left spending. [[Up front.]] But here we call it, where are the budgets and where is the rest? [[Up front.]] It sounds like a reason. A senator is talking about a transport plan. We're talking about the budget. There's a significant increase in transport in Iceland, but we haven't cut where the funds go. It will be in a transport program when we discuss it, then we can take the discussion about whether an abnormally large or small percentage is going to the capital area. I was interested in this because in all the financial and financial discussions of this government, the budget has been called financial spending laws and financial laws without preparation, and I don't know what to do with what it means. A senator is in, now calling all kinds of expenses for the capital area.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u154	Mr. President. This suggests that my words were deliberately turned out. I'm going to say again: Where is the priority for necessary transport improvements in the capital area? Why is the capital area not high priority? This is not a particularly complicated question. Perhaps the answer will follow. I have another question for the country. Funds estimate that 25 billion will be spent on road construction. There are some good subjects in the Action Programme, such as the implementation of animal soils, the construction of Platform Roads, and increased emphasis on the construction of cycle paths. But it does catch the eye that a decision has not yet been made on Vestísfíndóttir in a Gufudal regiment that the local smokers of Rhoolah have been waiting for in another decade. The law says, with the permission of a president: We're going to make it to the Gulf of Gufudal, if we can get through it. The local government of the Rukhobrepps has now established the road that the road the Road is expected to take into its main organization and Gallup's poll shows that a rich greater proportion of people, less than 90%, agree. Isn't that the result, the highest? Minister? As we know, a bitter bone is a forest of tent. To meet environmental issues, the road structure has changed its original motion to a roadline. If this were to happen, the forest would now be cut off by 1.1% and the forest would not be loaded into the forest. In other words, the projects have been reorganized to minimise the environmental impacts. I'm gonna ask you again, "What's taking so long?" If it's the highest. Ministers in their struggle for man - made transport to the Westlands, I can inform you that I will submit changes in transport schemes - and I'm going to allow me to mention a transport plan here - when it comes out, if necessary. In this turn of events, these projects will be assumed to be the first, and I trust them and I pretend to know that I agree with them. Once again, I'm asking, "What are the Westerners made to wait?" Minister? Why and for what? I'd like to answer, but not turn around.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u155	A respectable president. It is only natural for humans to want answers but not outbacks, but the questions must also be without claims that are false. That's why you have to answer them. I am here to make a picture of the objective section, and I can't see that setting priorities against the capital area is being established. There have been certain things here. We've got plenty of projects going on. I don't know how to do it. A senator has been able to understand this so that the West will be put on hold because the line is not clear. It's clear that there is. There are different ways, the decision has not been made. It includes both the Hebrew and the Greek words translated "character " and" the Hebrew Scriptures. " to blame this hall, but also to the whole system of government. As I have said before, and I expect to what. A senator would agree with me about that, is it a tragic story of the administration from A to A, how it's been let by a blow, that's put the quality of life of those who live there and leave the area. I can be absolutely sure, and I'll say it with what. A senator says that we shall unite to initiate that system. That is why it is so important that we look at our big priorities without discussing a road program that is difficult to escape because it is important to do so. But our big priorities are that we need to finish our basic system in Iceland. We're not done yet. Much of that is where the Westerners, the southern guards, stand. I think we can agree in this room that that that's one of the things we need to finish. There are significant projects, both the way through the Valley of Gufu, or the region, the animal tunnel, and the Dufindian, and the connections there. It's a lot of money. But the system remains. We need to put first priority, but at the same time, we weigh most of the roads in the capital area and in the area of the accident. [[The president calls.]] It's complicated.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u156	A respectable president. There are a number of things I would like to take into account when it comes to transportation, but there are several things I would like to mention here and ask the highest degree. Secretary of transportation to the top. First, although this year's budget does not show up, looking at the five - year financial agenda shows that after the end of a three - year campaign in 2021, there will be a new financial collapse. That's what makes me put that tip to the highest level. Ministers that in preparing budgets now or the future work until the end of the year, it will be a success to ensure that, on the other hand, there is room for further transport spending for the future, especially for the next year to meet the decline of new budgets, and to ensure that, on the other hand, the sources needed to continue working on such matters for the next year. The other thing I'd like to mention at the highest. Minister, I also did so at the last council, that I would like to be curious about the state-of-the-city situation of a major enterprise and that at the same time there will be an increase of approximately One billion a year in support of public transportation. What's the outcome of that deal, top dog? - Secretary of transportation?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u157	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Bergþór, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, Ólason, these nice questions. It is true that in the next five years' budget, 5.5 billion each year, 16.5 during the three years, which then functions on the second two items. We can be happy that next year, because we're talking about them here, we're gonna have some valuable money to play - if I remember a fair 13.5 billion, something like that. In the next year, we can be happy that we are making significant improvements. But in the long run, we have to face that the fourth and fifth years of this financial strategy will be difficult to deal with, and likely also in a transport program that runs away with the financial agenda. Like what? A senator came on is the basis of the payment of the road system gradually corrosive because it is mainly fueled by gasoline and diesel. As we are trying to increase the number of the new energy cars, income flows to the state are reduced to survive the construction and operation of the road system. For some time now, the State's authority has been looking at these things. A financial report was presented officially in the late summers, and in the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs, we have also been considering whether we can work with this, i.e. to better ensure the revenues under the road system, some kind of payment on the roads, or on individual projects, including to enter next year, in a conversation with the council, with a bill - it's in the Minister's Constitution and ideas about how we could create a legal basis for that. [[The president calls.]] If it works well, we could add for the two years we're going to go down. [[The president calls.]] I think it's an exciting assignment, and I can't wait for the conversation here in this council hall to do that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u158	Mr. President. The budget bill expects a budget of 730 million in land island flotation equipment. The equipment is made by means of taps on both sides of the seal, and they are to scoop up sand that is to be used for the sealing. However, the cranches do not reach land, so the sand is not shoveled onto land but is back in the sea. So there are some conflicting opinions as to whether these devices will come over to any benefit. What I wanted to talk to a minister here is when he sees this equipment being put into use and what his business expenses are scheduled for a year. At the beginning of this year, the Kingdom Hall rejected all offers received from a fixed farm - to - house pump system. The question, then, is: Does this funding really work? We come back to this: Is it safe for these pumps to solve the difficult and costly matter of sand for the sealing? V.E.G. A minister has thought, if I recall correctly, that a third party will take out the problem that has been there and suggest improvement. If so, it is interesting to know whether a minister has applied in this way and particularly when choosing to buy the bottom pump. It would also be good to have the minister's opinion of these devices, as I said earlier; there are conflicting opinions about whether the minister will benefit, but it costs a lot of money. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u159	A respectable president. Now the person here has to admit, perhaps unlike the senator, that he is not an expert in technical solutions from those who have been introduced there. As a result, I can't tell you how this is going to work and if it's gonna work. But I can quote the experts who have designed and developed the equipment. We know that, me and him. A senator, who takes time from sand to sea in many parts of the world. We also know that they have taken time to develop before they become well - known enough. Landing has certainly not come from getting its sand; indeed, natural disasters such as Eyjafógs and a lot of sand following it. Of course, those who have designed the equipment, the experts, that it will work, would not be going that way. Regarding the question of the highest. This decision has been very long on the way; long before the Supreme Court. Minister sat down in the minister's chair. This design has taken much longer. They've been developing this for a very long time. That's what happened to you. A senator stood to offer this out and was made, but did not come a good enough offer, so it's been ready for a long time. Of course, all of us hope that during the development of the land - island crew, including those devices, they will be used to make the harbor safer and better for more frequent entry. I'm sorry, but I can't answer the senator better in this regard. I don't have technical knowledge of this field.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u160	A respectable president. This is where we'll discuss a topic area under the transportation and rural management department at 1st. About the budget of 2019. What a joy it is to see the increases in local, rural, transport, and communication groups that are of great importance to us, but these language groups have temporarily ignored them during the past few years! There are many important subjects mentioned and mentioned in the discussion. In particular, I am pleased to see that the budget closely follows a regional plan adopted here last time. However, Based on the media, transport balance is spoken of in the media. I'd like to ask the highest. A secretary to work ahead of that area, on the one hand, the equation of fuel costs for international international international international international flights, which I consider to be an important team and a specific basis for innovation in rural production and, in particular, the reproducing part of the rural population. It is a specific transport adjustment built in, e.g. in the working conditions of eutrophication in milk production, but not the same when it comes to plant producers or those selling forest products, which are now producing new farmers. I believe it is important that there be a definite review of the work schedule for the new community.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u161	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir negative for filming this on the budget discussion, i.e. the transport pathways we have. We have a fund that balances transport of oil products in general and provides the basis for everyone to live in the same type of cost as the situation in the construction of his enterprise, including individuals. Thus, fuel prices and oil prices are more similar, although they are not the same, and competition can bring down a lower price in individual areas. Regarding the demand for an even fuel price on an airplane, this question has been discussed - and what. A senator has filed a case on this matter. This is one of the only answers we have received. At the moment, the Ministry is working to get together those people who could answer it best in order to resolve it once and for all. Some have said that this is of no relevance to attracting new airlines to fly to the scene of Eunice and Akureyri, while others have said that this is the basis for everything. We need to determine if this is the case. I agree with what. A senator, this will be an important issue, and we should do it exactly the same as with an oil price equation. The other thing. A senator mentioned the regional transport. It's very important. It is true that cow farmers themselves have agreed to cooperate with the principles of cooperation. They make sure that the same cost is to get milk for each one's home. Other jobs don't have that. In the present system, some are excluded. That's exactly what it is to get a bill from the Ministry in the fall about it, since we're just expanding it, because we haven't got enough money within this system. But there is a growing demand, and hopefully there are other manufacturing companies that could use this transport equation and sit at the same level as others, to form those living in the capital area. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u162	A respectable president. I'd like to thank you for the answers, and I'd like them to point out about the incident with airplane fuel that there are also airlines working at these airports only, such as Northland, and flying. To Greenland. Another subject I'd like to introduce is that one of the main goals in the Transport and Communication case is the preparation for a private delinquency to postal service in 2020. According to a Congress report, there is a bill coming to legalize mail services. I think it's clear to everyone who's been monitoring the development of postal services in the past few years that the reasons for which we've known it are in recent years, decades or centuries, not only in Iceland, but also in Europe, North America, and elsewhere. One reason is international agreements in these areas that are based on an old foundation where transport and economic conditions in the world were in a very different way today. This results in the cost of delivering products at a post office such as e.g. from China mainly falls to the reception area of the product, without paying for its expenses. Another reason for changing mail services is failure in mail messages that are still decreasing, including because of other goals in the budget for increase in electronic services within the country. In spite of this, it is a big matter for individuals throughout the country to be able to enjoy a post - mail service. This is especially true of the job drivers in rural areas. Therefore, I would like to ask if a minister knows that there is a change in international labour agreements, whether or not there is an analysis of how much marketing solutions can be provided by mail services in Iceland, and whether or not they are working on finding ways to integrate the mail service in another service there. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u163	A respectable president. That's right. A senator said that there are two factors that have made a major impact on the postal service in recent years. Of course, it is the fact that letters and e - mails seem to disappear gradually or even send Christmas cards, as we know them. There is so much reduction in the number of people who have responded by reducing the number of laws offered in order to deliver mail and are now down for two days, not just in the country, but everywhere in Iceland, it's the same system everywhere. On the other hand, an Iceland epidemic suggested that he be involved in rural activities too, since driving out one letter occasionally or driving out newspapers twice a week may not be very rewarding. It's not nice to read them. The second reason for this is just that. A senator came in, that mail services have increasingly been changing to baloney mail, package mail, and are often packages from some Web store, often named one large person in China, AliExpress, who sends a lot of goods to the West. But in the international e - mail system it is such that it does not depend on these deliveries. The Western countries are simply in a smaller part of this matter. I know people want to take that position. I will not tell them whether they will succeed, but they will seek a way. Here in the Western world, people have also been looking for ways to ensure that these shipments are totally incomprehensible and unreachable to my knowledge that Icelandic taxpayers are paying off a foreign website by paying money to Iceland's e - mail to obtain unreachable shipments from foreign manufacturers that compete with Icelandic commerce. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u164	A respectable president. Here I am explaining the factors under the Ministry of Education and Culture, which deal with a bill for funding in 2019. Of course, we will continue to advance in the interest of education, science, and culture, but the overall budget of the media is growing from over 104 billion dollars. 109 billion. There's an increase of less than 5% from the 2018 budget. Investment to the university level continues to increase, but contributions to it are only 47 billion. and is about 5% from last year's budget. Our colleges play a key role in promoting progressive society, and we focus on increasing education and research production to university in order to improve the quality of study and study environment. Then we add support to students by 3.5% between the years. I'd like to state that work on reviews of the Icelandic student fund will be successful, and the bill of this material will be submitted to the council in the fall of 2019. In the budget bill, we follow up on the emphasis on teaching, and we have a special 50 billion and more. K. a contribution to a reexamination of the teacher's school. In addition, we took into consideration the increase in the number of applications for teachers. This development, of course, is a source of great joy. It is a pleasure to see the presidents of the country agree that the university funding is being published. Based on the latest OECD average from 2015 on contributions to each university student, Iceland has achieved its goal in the Treaty. More donations are being made to the university over the past few years. Also, new OECD criteria have been changing. A respectable president. Now, we're moving toward high school. Students in all parts of the country have access to a wide range of books and educations. 98% of students are enrolled at this level of study. Total spending in high school is less than 33 billion and an increase of 3.1% per year. The increase in donations per student is 12% per year. Such increases have not been observed for a long time. In addition, we are investing in the improved facilities of high school. We are here to form with a project on the need for housing at the University of Reykjavík, and I expect it to give me suggestions later in the year. We also cooperate with the research and development of the country's work and will be improved by the Training School in Breiðholti and Cityholts School. The 2019 budget bill expects $224 million. K. increase in college management, and special emphasis is given on increasing the price of calculator classes to work and to-do. This too, of course, is in harmony with the government covenant. A respectable president. We will support continued efforts in research and science, making the Icelandic economy better equipped to meet the challenges of the future. Total expenditure is about 5.5 billion, and we are talking about an increase of 9% between the years. I am very pleased with these increases and warmly welcome the results that our scientists are reaching into the international environment. A respectable president. We continue to work for the benefit of culture, art, sports, and youth for all the people of the country. We're going even. to improve the availability and communication of culture and list and to put Icelandic in place in accordance with various measures and a complete approach to further the Icelandic language. It was introduced this week. The budget for the above cases will be 15 billion dollars. 500 million. K. ... biggerthandesignedinthe fiscal bill. This will be explained by 400 million. K. which we plan to reimburse at 25% of the cost of publishing books in Icelandic, as well as 100 million. K. who run into a new culture set up. This is a turning point and a turning point toward promoting the nation's culture. These policies have the support of the people of the country, but a recent survey estimated about 90% of the country's population to have the support of Icelandic culture. A respectable president. It is indeed a pleasure to be here and to keep the word that big education and culture are a source of joy and satisfaction to be able to report these developments here with you, fine senators. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u165	Mr. President. Last Wednesday presented the highest number. Secretary of Education and Culture at the press conference of their ideas on government support of private media services and including measures to reduce the subject of the State Radio on a commercial market by 560 million. K. The idea seems to be that by reducing the commercial income of the State Radio, there is more room for the private media to get rich. The highest effort. A minister to improve the position of the individual media is a fine price. It is important to have news channels that work through careful reporting, in research, as a platform for public talk, and thus for public interest. This is important in a democratic society. The media of recent times has not made it clear whether and how the Kingdom News will be improved by 560 billion. K. as suggestions at the highest level. Ministers expect the Agency's income to be gathered together. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister if he's planning on improving the state radio this 560 million. K. If so, how will he intend to do so? Is it going to have an increase in the radio charge or something else? In a presentation of the highest. A minister also stated that he had a plan of 400 million. K. Go to the private media, and pay from the government funds should begin right away in 2019 C.E. In view of the government's budget bill, however, there is no such thing. So I want to ask the highest. Minister, since none of this is involved in the budget bill that, of course, controls government funds, where to come from. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u166	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the queries. First of all, it is clear that the policy of this government is clear that we want a powerful government radio. We suggest that the cost and reduction of advertising minutes should be banned, as it were, that we want to increase the balance between the state media and the media. We are now studying through Our Kingdom News on how we are going to make it up to you. It will truly be improved. It may be that there will be a later shift between causes of rain or such, but we have not implemented this. Not to be overlooked is the fact that there have been significant increases between years, but we will improve this. Hv. A senator also asked about the suggestion that we are going to reimburse a special editor's expenses for the media as presented at a press conference this week. We assume that once the bill of the material is visible and we have an accurate cost analysis, these funds will enter the council's treatment. It is clearly stated in the Treaty of this government that we are going to improve the work environment of the individual media. We'll stand out as far as the North countries are concerned. We are the only countries in the North countries who have no support for their private media as well as for the one country where the national radio is just as intense in the advertising market.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u167	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. I'm glad to hear that RUV will be improved. I thought it was interesting to hear the explanation. A minister has a letter on the budget, so why not find it in the budget bill that government funds to special media sources should be implemented immediately next year. Of course, the State's financial resources are controlled. So it should be possible to find information on this in the budget bill, but it's not. For an explanation of the highest degree. Minister is not expected to agree in the government on the Supreme Court proposal. Minister. So I would like to ask if it's not one-on-one about the ultimate proposal. Ministers for government support of private media services and including measures to reduce the awareness of the State Radio, whether that is why they have the highest proposals. A minister can't be found in the budget bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u168	A respectable president. Thanks for the inquiry. Indeed, the government's sole concern is to give more support to the private media. The reason we're not on the budget bill is mainly because we're working on this bill and we're not doing the exact cost analysis, but we've already planned what this will be. It's simply that we're so cut off from the North countries as far as it's concerned that there's time for action now. We have to go to this if we're going to have a normal environment for the media in this country. Like what? A senator may know that the competition for advertising is always becoming more difficult and difficult with technological change and so forth. Much of them, including In the North, big information sources or social services are now being visited. One of the measures we are taking is to try to control this so that it is consistent with the taxation of national and international advertising revenues. It's very urgent. We are not the only country on such a mission. There are challenges to all other media because of these technological changes and these developments. Therefore, no data could be held with a complete schedule of action. Of course, it is not merely the media; it is about to be more supportive of Icelandics. This series of action measures, first for publication, secondly for the media, third in terms of future Icelandic digitality, and fourthly I will present a pact proposal for 22 teams which all aim to further support the Icelandic.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u169	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for this passage, where she went over her tribe of litigation. I think it is so that the minister's heart may strike somewhat similar when it comes to measures to minimise school evaporation and the role of industrial education or education in it. I can see on the page. 335 assuming that 250 million. K. a donation will be distributed to high school because of a collection of subsidies. It's good for itself. But I know that the Minister's Office is now in operation on course until 2030, and I know that this is where a nice individual has been headed. I'd like to be a little more curious about how the Minister sees that work because I've been a little limping under it because I've been visiting industrial companies for a few years who've been having trouble with human beings because we don't have professional people, we haven't graduated a record medium for probably 20, 30 years, etc. I came into one very progressive company last year, which runs even. The largest slide shop in Iceland. There's a stick in the cabinet of the Minister if she knows which company this is, I'll tell you later. I asked if this company would be willing to clean up even a student. It didn't seem to be anything because it seemed to be a failure. I said, "Why hasn't this been done? " The answer was: No one has asked us to do this. That's why I ask when we're talking about this for a long time, but, of course, we're gonna have to take care of this for a short time. I would like to know how a minister sees this work being carried out. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u170	A respectable president. Thank you so much for asking what. Senator. Of course, it is no wonder that at times our hearts join together in rhythms. After all, we were part of a political party, so of course, it's no wonder. And I miss you, Þorsteinn, just have to say that, excuse me, please. Senator. For the elimination of high school and occupational and occupational studies. This will play a major role in the modeling of education to 2030. There's gonna be a special task management that's going to be about this. If we compare ourselves with other countries, the number of these articles in our area is much lower than that of developing in Norway or Finland or in Europe alone. Of course it's something special. We have put more emphasis on book study than on these nations. That is why we are setting specific goals for expanding and supporting these programs. But what a joy it was this spring that there was a 33% increase, e.g. in the electrical industry, a similar increase in buildings. So I hope we're seeing someone turn around, but I don't think there's any way we can assume that this will go on, we just see some clues. One of the things I've noticed when I've been visiting high school is that there are several factors that are important in reaching a good proportion for checking. First, it is that there is a good introduction to the study with parents and students. Second, there is a significant concern that they have to consider at the elementary school. The primary school needs to be opened much more with regard to the different professions in the industry, to-do and to-do. There are many factors that we can do much better.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u171	Mr. President. The government declared a decommissionment tax on books in financial programmes, and the case included the following: presented on the board of directors' website. V.E.G. The Ministry of Education also wrote an article in the Morning Press, which reminds me, about the importance of taking away money from books. Today, the government has lost its plans, and it was quite surprising, especially in view of how thoroughly it was advertised by the government. Rather, it should be a direct aid to the publishers of the book, likely in the eyes that they can so reduce the price of books. The important thing about this is to get information about whether or not this route is at least guaranteed. The value of books published by readers is as valuable. So I want to ask the highest. Education Minister: Is this the way to benefit from the protection of culture and the protection of the Icelandic language? How's the top count? A minister will ensure that this method will produce the same results as if the merit tax had been taken away? That's a bit of an important question. I hope it's the highest. Minister, I'm sure you'll find her in an excellent answer. Then it is also a question of whether this is guaranteed to produce the same results for the buyers of books. If the result is to be the same, how does this include less cost for a trust fund, as shown in the financial bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u172	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for asking about this matter because it's my heart. We have noticed that by the bookkeepers, the number of books has fallen by 36% in the last ten years in Iceland, by the book nation itself. That's why I and others went out. Congress officials forward a bill less than a year ago where a tax of books would be removed. A closer examination revealed that it would be more effective to have direct support, 25% direct support for the publication of each book, because we were specifically reaching only the books in English. The second action would likely not have been as specific because it would have had to go to all the books for sale. That is why we thought that after considering some of the ways this was more efficient. I have to say, the minister here is made to see that there are new and even better reasons to go to the same end, but he is willing to change only the means to achieve the same goal. I have been convinced that this will result in greater and better results. I'm assuming that the price of books will be reduced because this is the support of publishing books in Iceland that we've never been on any other way. So I think those in such a version will take this into account.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u173	A respectable president. I don't share the concerns that have been expressed in the highest plans. Education Minister to reduce the size of the state to a commercial market of about a quarter or so. That's especially for two reasons. First of all, the extent of the Kingdom News on that market has increased over a year, a relative dimension, and has now come to the point that the total share of the Kingdom News of a commercial market in Iceland is about 25% and is probably more than half, over 50%, being taken into account only by means of bright viewers. In contrast with all other government organizations, on page 24 it is stated. 329 of the budget bill that The State Radio's actual income of the radio bill between years, i.e. The total budget of the Kingdom News over the course of years, with the exception of pay and prices change, is 12.9%, 13% absolute increase in revenue over compensation. That is largely because more currency comes along by means of the radio, there are nearly 400 million who return. In other words, one of the institutions of the State, the National Radio, whether in possession of its institutions or associates, has an automatic increase of some 400 million a year in income. First thing I want to do is ask the first round. The Minister of Education what may be expected that the real estates of the State, the State Radio, have raised much more than the prices of the period of the service contract now in force between the Ministry and the State Radio.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u174	A respectable president. It is clear that there have been increases in the state radio. You're right. A senator says so. If I aim at the last two years, the real increase has been 332 billion. K., just with newpayers. During the two-year period, there has been a large increase, and the development of an index price is not taken into account. I think it's very important that, as mentioned in my presentation this week, we level that game. We need to have the press free, as well as national television, but we need to balance the game. We need action to contribute to the growth of private media. The changes that have occurred in the media network have been quite rapid. Of course, this must be so that we can be sustainable and efficient, so we also need to consider how the trend has been made by the State Radio on a commercial market and how this trend is developing. I feel very strongly that we want a powerful national broadcast, but we also need to look to the number of revenues and real - life increases in recent years. As I said, the real increase is 332 million in a two - year period.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u175	A respectable president. I think that's kind of the whole point. I told you before, the trade of the Kingdom Radio on a commercial market in U.S. V is probably over 50%. We have a situation that is unheard, and I allow myself to assert that nowhere else in the West is the state's position on a media advertising market anywhere near this. It would likely have to be as east as Russia to get into something similar. Then I have a question for a minister about the improved interview to improve that, especially if its activity was reduced in the advertising market. I restate on the fact that the State Radio has a built-in real - life increase in income from year to year beyond any other government agency I know. Its share increases from year to year in the Icelandic media market. We see, for example, where it would lead with the private media if it went on like this. I see that between 2018 and 2018, the real increase in income means beyond the cost of 360 million. K. Well, let's not say so, shall we, chief? Minister, to reduce the scope of the State Radio, something was expected to be about 500 billion. K., is it good to be satisfied with the real increase in income?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u176	V.E.G. Minister may come closer before I mention his name.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u177	A respectable president. Thank you so much for your excellent advice, and I appreciate it. In effect, we are talking about such numbers, and money is to be taken into account when we consider a changed position. When we discuss this, I feel very important that we do so in a reasonable way. We don't want to have the market so that there's always less and less room for the independent media. One guide in the procedure I presented this week is not just the media but also the way we are going to support our Icelandic. We'd like to have a variety of flea media as a country and a community where we'd like to have informed and critical discussions. When I introduced them to four teams, I stressed that we are dealing with the books, that we are dealing with the media and the motions for the media, as well as with their private media and taxable environments. I'd like to remind you that we just reduced the worthy tax to an electronic subscription from 24% to 11%. There's one part in the operation. But as indicated by the government's treaties, we want to improve the environment of the individual media, and we are going to do so. Now there are suggestions that we are about to implement, and it is very important that a good deal of reconciliation be made with them during the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u178	A respectable president. Iceland is a highly educated nation, and its international context is a well - founded culture. Iceland is the only country in Western society that does not have a scientific collection. Science collections are the part of informal education that is most supportive of formal education in science and technology at all schools. Clearly, there is a great need, the need to get out of the books in an efficient, three - way manner. Large and careful research has been done on the benefits of scientific collections in communities. It has clearly and repeatedly shown that careful scientific collections stimulate criticism, drawing out the ability to create creative and unusual solutions. Similarly, research shows that both children and the public gain more technical and scientific insight into and have access to interactive scientific institutions. Since the fourth industrial revolution is not slowing down, it is the responsibility of all of us to take the necessary steps immediately to make sure that children and young people of this country have the best necessary means to maintain the international partnership in these areas. As we discuss the budget of 2019 C.E., it is appropriate to ask a minister about its view of the establishment of an interactive scientific collection or centre in Iceland. How does a minister feel about the idea, and is this something that she might envision become a reality during the election period? Is there any room in the current budget to take the first steps? This is what I really wanted to say, but there's something else I can add. There is a tangiblely better employee at the General Assembly than when I was working here in spring. I like it very much, and it seems to me like men listened to the words of Guðni th. Th.'s Jóhannesson, president of Iceland, when he said on Tuesday that the Allied Congress would have to go crazy. [[The president calls.]] I hope it stays that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u179	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a very good inquiry, and I agree with it. A member of the body of science would be a very useful project, a social project. When I travel myself, I usually go to science museums, especially to the needs of young people. You're right. One senator says, this is designed to arouse interest in science and technology and can make certain experiments. Hv. A senator asks me out in space, and I think we should look at it. We could take the first steps to shape policy through a scientific collection. I think this would be a very exciting idea, and I think it would be a fall to increase interest in museums. I personally stress that the museums are accessible and open, and I think that increasing education on what is in museums is one of the things we should stress. Like what? A senator also notices a significant increase in money for research, about 9% between years. I think it is also very important that we better study to our children what opportunities this is so that a museum that focuses on science and science will make me feel like a good idea.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u180	A respectable president. On the same line, I agree with this suggestion and add a museum for children. In lands where I have visited them, they are very interesting and enjoyable. Come on, come on, come on. In addition, I'm going to ask the highest. Minister on three things. First, about the book tax and its delinquency, or not a deduction of the merit tax, the effect of the change in policy to what is presented in the budget has authors, since they are also sharers there, and to be said very important because otherwise the books did not exist. Secondly studies, e.g. In college or elsewhere. The aim of the Scientific and Technical Council, the overall target of a highly proposed, but not a direct operation in the current policy, is that 3% of GDP will be spent for research. Where's that heading for the maps? Where are we, considering that policy on this financial bill? Then I ask in a similar way about the goal of getting into the OECD, which, of course, isn't where we should be, we should be above compared with how rich we are, and, yes, next, we're heading for the Northland average. V.E.G. In fact, a minister in his prehistoric speech said that in view of an increase, mostly a university, we in recent years would be unexpectedly reaching this goal of 2020. I'd like to learn a little more about this, for e.g. In the university language, a great deal of 1.5 billion are spent on temporary expenses that are likely to fail once these projects are completed. How, then, do we stand?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u181	A respectable president. Hv. A senator had three questions pointed to me, and I'm going to answer them in that order. First of all, the direct support the bookmakers are receiving, the 25% refund. After we considered what was most successful, this route became clear, and it is also in line with the reimbursement of films and other reimbursements we have, so it is consistent and consistent. Clearly, there will be no books without writers, and this operation, of course, is designed to increase the volume of literature. The entire environment is strengthened by this operation that we have never performed before, and we will carefully monitor how prices will be developed. As books fall down, we are more likely to sell more books and writers will benefit. And then, of course, it's just that all rolls in a publication will increase with this injection, but we will monitor it very closely and see if this procedure is not sure to work. Second, as shown in my history, we are raising a considerable amount of contributions to science and research and I just need to find out how close we are to this 3%, I think we're getting closer to it. As for the OECD average, we immediately set off work after a new government was created to review this, review these numbers, and see how far into this. I was getting it on the table to me that we were far closer to this goal than I had previously realized, and it's a pleasure, but I agree. Of course, a senator says we're supposed to be there, and it's about time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u182	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Ministers for the educational and cultural introductions that I have often found quite interesting to what we are dealing with in the budget. First, I will rejoice at an increasing attendance at a teaching school that has not been mentioned in the discussion. During the past few years, the decrease has been so heavy, and the change has made me very happy. That's one of the things that I hope will bring back much. I'm gonna go over a few things that I find interesting and that I need to draw out here that's being dealt with. That's even. A high school survey for students of foreign background They're supposed to call for a high school welcome program which I think is very important as well as, of course, the participation of children of foreign origins in sports and youth activities. These are groups that often fall under. The status of children with a language different from that of English is also being discussed. They're going to do a work-up plan on the affairs of immigrants. Especially should youths be screened for elimination at high school with these foreign students in particular. I also rejoice in the change in high school that the school is now paid for a student who is in school three weeks after the beginning of her semester and who is in 75% of school instead of the old system, which compares to those who tire. I know it because I was in this sector that it's important that such a thing be done. Similarly, the effect of counting the components that change this is calculated as 6% higher than if the previous method was used. The time you get is forever and so short. I'd better come in after what I wanted to ask. I welcome a change in the calculus. [[The president calls.]] I've talked a lot about it at a meeting of the budget committee, and I really hope it's real to see the day.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u183	A respectable president. I agree with what. Of course, a senator is very pleased to see this increased attendance at teachers'studies. We're talking tens of percent increase from year to year, both at the University of Akureyri and at the University of Iceland. I took the presidents of both of those universities to Norway to learn from them because they face challenges similar to ours. I think over the next ten years, 34,000 teachers in the Norwegian educational system were missing. Although this increase is very enjoyable, it does not mean that we know or see the final outcome of a country. Of course we're happy about this. I strongly emphasize that we will continue on this journey. We increased money to give special support, and we also took into account the ability to receive these new students. I agree with what. Senator, this is urgent. Second, if we are children of a foreign background, it is a very pleasant challenge that we face. There are many things we can do and learn from other nations. On this trip to Norway, there were two main goals, one to learn and learn what the Norwegian were doing about teaching and one with foreign children. In this regard, much is very interesting. It's important, and it's also a lot of Norwegian instruction. With this operation plan we plan, e.g. How important it is to promote Icelandic languages! Here, too, we look especially at children of foreign origin in order to increase their availability in Icelandic. I also look forward to increasing the number of students at the time of learning Icelandic language in elementary school. We notice, because I'm comparing with Denmark, there are twice as many Danish classes in the Danish textbook as there are in Icelandic. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u184	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. As I say, it's such a short time. I was also going to mention the extra emphasis on the work and to-do I'm going to have to be a real experience at last. They've been talking about it for so many years to raise it higher, but somehow very little happens. I am also glad to see that it is appropriate to respond because of improvements in the University of Akureyri because of barber damage and as much as offer a master's course in marine geographic studies at the University of West Coast under the control of HA. I sat in an interesting chat with the Head of HA in LYSU about the last weekend in Akureyri. He often thinks a big, out - of - date presentation, and there are a lot of things about the convention's vision that would be interesting to do in a special conversation about. I have received comments that high school lack advice or information on personal protection, filing, and equally paybacking. They say the Ministry doesn't have much support. They'll need some kind of central help, and I'd like to ask the Minister about it. Similarly, it is difficult or costly to install the document system. Is this what makes earmarks special? There are cases where schools have to be especially used to recruit staff. A personal protection officer may not be allowed to be one of the directors, and there will be a new work at school. Is there an arrangement or conversation between e.g. a smaller school? I'm thinking more about them, since you've seen a lot of things in the management department that there's a conversation between rural partners about the personal security work all together. Does that mean, then, that there is some special capital? These are the tips you've received now that the budget has seen the day. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u185	A respectable president. That is correct. A senator, the introduction to the CDC has taken quite some time, and it's a lot of work. I readily acknowledge as the minister of the seminary that we need to help the high school stage at the introduction. I've been discussing in my department the importance of a central approach. I have encouraged cooperation between high school schools so that they can help one another. I am kind and obliged to tell that the minister's mind is to help the schools more fully in this regard. So I've heard about the filing. This is vital because high school has made big changes, such as with the shortening. Another factor that we need to consider when looking at is high school is the effect of this shortening. I'm particularly sensitive to the work, industry, and occupation because it may have been taken into consideration in a way other than the book study. I've got a very close look at it, and we've got a lot of mind to do. As far as the algorithm is concerned, I am very happy that we can present a modified algorithm so that the student is being targeted, not who tirelessly, of the test. There's more to the funding of high school. As shown in my background, we are talking about a 12% increase in each student in high school. All talk about shrinking and cutting back to high school is just not right, and that's why it's very important that we do so here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u186	Mr. President. I want to make a subject here for young males, boys, boys, and young men. It has been observed in the media and in various ways that it seems that in some respects the young male sex is difficult to get into the schools of the land and even in life, in all too many cases. It has thus been reported that in preschool, there is thought to be a reason to give them more to spiritual problems than to count. In basic schools, the boys graduate with lower reading understanding and in general read less than do their fellow students. In high school, school leaves are more likely to be among boys than girls. At university, young men who are much fewer among students and graduate students than young women do. Mr. President. Life itself proves to be too many young people that have too many mental problems. As a recent newspaper, difficult thoughts turn to young people, mostly young men who fell at their own hands. Is it so hard to see the epidemic that has gone over the country in this regard. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister of what research is being done in school policy policies when it comes to the problem of boys, boys and young men, and what plans a minister has to make in this regard. How will a minister achieve the goal of teaching students to be comfortable at school from either sex? How much money does a minister have to use in this regard? Do you see that in the budget bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u187	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for bringing this up because this is very important. I'm not going to review that clear review. A senator granted a world of Congress here, but this is a big and urgent community matter for me. I'd like to mention that the work started at the turn of education to the year 2030 is taking into account. We have two programme directors, one whose name is Welling and Health, and we focus especially on well - being at all schools, how our children are doing, on the other hand, research and analysis and other parties, we rely on their data and observations. It is shocking to see that we are dealing with increasing anxiety among young people. We need to take it and we're doing it, me and the highest. Healthcare Ministers, by increasing access to psychiatric services in the health and health care systems. For our young boys, we're very aware of that. In all the elimination - related work, we will examine them in particular, and how to meet their needs more fully because it is just a fact, based on the figures and information we receive, that we may look up to the fact that we are reacting to them. I take it very seriously. One of the projects in the shape of this educational policy is particularly involved. Of course, we must set goals to reduce their elimination. When we look at graduations in Iceland's 2017 University being 70% female, we have to take it into account, that's just the way it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u188	Mr. President. I thank her secretary for her reply and express satisfaction by her seeming awareness of the seriousness of the problem involved in having and the emphasis she has laid. I'd like to use this opportunity and encourage her to impress her on these matters. It's as if there's some journey of particular young men, boys, boys, who will be looking for a special explanation for what it is in our society that causes this distress. There is no other way to say it. I'd like to use this opportunity to thank the Minister for the answer to an inquiry that I directed to the minister of this council for the past summer and for the textbooks of high school. I believe that in high school students have access to educational material in Icelandic. In high school, people are presented with a wide range of study subjects, and then there is a chance that people will choose an article at a university, they need to be able to read in a foreign language. But in high school, when it comes to a presentation, a review that people take with them in life, it is very important that they have good textbooks in English. Of course, it's also part of the culture and protection of the Icelandic language in our society that I know the Minister is very interested in.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u189	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for raising a subject, the study material in English. As we have seen, we are in a great deal of traffic and policy development in promoting the Icelandic language. The interpretation proposal I have announced is 22 teams, ten teams reaching out for education and how we add access to the Icelandic language and support. As we have seen, I feel a little urgent that we even have countless hours in Icelandic and bring them closer to the North countries, the way they approach it. This also comes into play with the situation of young boys. One point is that they often do not have the same age in their ability to read. I strongly emphasize the importance of all policies that we strive to develop dyslexia because I believe it is the key to a good quality of life, no matter what you do. A person with good reading ability is more likely to get into his life. One of the things that we are looking ahead and is also part of this program to promote the Icelandic language is to support books, support books, and have a variety of subjects. Another thing I'd like to say is that we're setting up a special fund for juvenile books because it has a shortage. It can scare boys away from reading if they do not have books in English. We want to make things right.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u190	Mr. President. Certainly, there is much to consider in the Ministry of Ministry. A minister of education, so there's only one thing that can be killed. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for not complying with his promises to lower the value tax on books. I think that was very sensible. People should always be commended when they see their error, especially when they are at the highest point. Ministers are involved, and the like of the merit tax system is extremely unwise. It is difficult, however, to understand exactly what a minister will do about the publication, how to make up for a supplementary tax, and how to handle equality there. That way, I'd like to thank the highest. Minister, this is quite a thank-you speech. A minister hears, for offering suggestions on how to support the free media. It's a bit similar since, as far as I can see, it's not too much implemented yet, and it's likely to have to look into the context of how people see the future of the Kingdom News. One thing I'd like to ask the highest. A minister about and there's about the funding of these two measures that, if I can calculate, are approaching a billion. I can't figure out where it is in the budget bill, whether the Minister's legal rights are already fully new, where this money should come from, whether it should be added, or whether the minister intends to cut down on other lawsuits. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u191	A respectable president. I will submit a bill that is related to the publication of books in Iceland. There will be a very good application of what that support means and exactly what it means. It is a very good report that describes our goals and how we approach them. So I think that's why. A senator does not have to worry that he will not have enough explanations. I understand, though, that when the bill is not available, members of Congress have failed to see it. Senators have questions, and that's why I have to inform them here. As you can see in the Constitution, the bill is in place, and I hope to introduce it immediately next week. Then we'll destroy any uncertainty about it. Another thing I'd like to say is that the bill, and it's been assumed that the publication support will be about 300 to 400 million. K. As I mentioned in my history, it has already been assumed, but I agree with the question. Of course, a senator on the translucency, members of Parliament should have certain assurances about what the authority is to say and do, and that is to stand there. But sometimes it's like the suggestions on private media, we're working very hard to finish the bill for reevaluating editors to the media. It was urgent to act quickly because the situation is simply insurmountable. We want to move toward the North. That's why we're doing what we're doing.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u192	Mr. President. Thank you very much. A minister of education for the answers, even though I haven't quite figured out where the money is in both. But the highest. A minister has a chance to make things right afterwards. I just wanted to get involved in a completely different matter. There has been a great revolution in communication and communication or communication, especially among young people. All of this has a profound effect on everyday life. Of course, much of it is very positive, but there are also a small number of shadows. These include digital violence, especially sexual intercourse, with young ones and children. At that time, the boundaries of the personal and public seem to move very much, and what to do is not to be used in dealing with a variety of direct and indirect messages to youths about sexual behavior. There are many steps to improve education in this game and elementary school section. Of course, all of that is commendable, and especially in English. I cut it down because there's a high priority on financiallocking because of pre-PISA survey. I miss a bit of teaching out on social media, communication, personal boundaries, and sexual relationships. Therefore, I would like to ask the minister if there is a plan for some of that kind and if it is in the ministry's focus. If so, what are they, and how much money will the Ministry intend to defend in the mass - scale and widespread influence in many areas of society, and in many cases it can lead to serious damage and crime?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u193	A respectable president. For direct support to publication, this is expected on the income side. I want to make it clear. Hv. A senator mentions communication media and the digital world, but it becomes a special part of it when we attend education to the year 2030, which is simply digital technology and education. All these developments occur so quickly these days that as parents, we are struggling to keep track of what our children are doing in their dealings, games, and so forth. Of course, you are concerned that one of the largest covariates for growing anxiety may be an increased involvement in community media. What we do in the shape of education is to examine specific health and well - being, linking it to digital technology, education, and mental health. In foreign studies, both suicide rates and other suicide rates have increased as such media use is increased. It is very difficult to tell exactly what the major difference is, but we look to it. I'd also like to state that it's a Minister's Committee on Equal Opportunities. There we take this kind of violence in particular. I'd also like to state that we've developed some very specific suggestions for # I'm a student revolution and sports, and we've got an entire contact agent who's supposed to deal with it. I'll then submit that bill on autumn days.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u194	A respectable president. This year we celebrate the anniversary of the Golden Age of a sovereignty. I am proud of us Icelanders who have shown the world that in spite of few, we are an independent nation with a voice in the international community that can stand on our own. Iceland, like other countries, reaches its independence and sovereignty in recognition of other countries and national rights. Foreign services protect international interests, political, business, and culture, and provide efficient civil service. The UN's global aim is to guide foreign policy, which aims to ensure the sustainable future of all of us. The financial bill is based on a five-year financial program adopted by the General. Spring. The bill assumes that foreign funds increase a total of 1.7 billion per year, from less than 15 billion dollars. At 16.7 billion. A fourth of this increase was explained by increased donations for development and humanitarian matters, which will now be 0.28% of gross national income in accordance with the administration of the Treaty. They are aimed at promoting a better quality of life for the poor and international security. Later in the fall, I will submit a synopsis proposal for developing cooperation policy that will aim for the best use of Icelandic expertise in increased cooperation with professional life. Economic care in foreign trade is a key factor in the activities of foreign service. Less than a quarter of the donations for foreign affairs are available to projects related to foreign trade, but they are largely financed by the Foreign Management Board and the Foreign Management Board. Only contributions to an Iceland lab, which is 796 million. K., fall under the Foreign Business party as shown in the budget. In spring, the Allied Parliament adopted changes in Iceland law to promote the cooperation of industry and the government in market work on foreign markets. • ensuring the improved use of funds and the clear management of the European Union. Business agreements with other countries have yielded considerable benefits to the Icelandic national population at the highest EU Convention. In accordance with the government's covenant, an increasing emphasis on its implementation is laid out for 162 million contributions to follow through by strengthening the work of recruitment and embassies in Brussels. Then business services and cultural projects are a significant part of our office's operations in cooperation with the Iceland Office. The main objective of cooperation in security and prevention is to work for peace and security in international and regional cooperation and to ensure national defences by cooperating countries. It is expected that 13% of foreign funds will be spent on that number. There's more than 286 billion in donations. K. between years and years, the increase is mainly to improve the combined need for maintenance and renewal of defense workers in Iceland. There are about 17% budgets spent on civil service and traditional foreign affairs. The importance of the State Ministry's civil service has grown over the years with an increasing number of Icelanders abroad. Today, more than 40,000 Icelanders live around the world, and those living in this country travel to foreign lands each year. These figures highlight the growing scope of this service. There are many projects, ranging from providing emergency letters to planning massive operations on a foreign emergency. Without the volunteer work of some 230 ballots around the world, our small foreign service could not be done. Foreign tourist service is also an increasing part of the foreign service, including The visa's version to the country. The rapid and rapid growth of tourists in the country makes it impossible for us to rely on our neighbors to take out our visas to the same extent that we used to. Thus, we need to take on increased responsibility for that responsibility, in line with our commitment to the Schengen community service. However, because of the increase in the revenues of the bond fees, it is not expected to meet the increased levels of visas of 160 million. K. ... accordingtoa financial bill. To our foreign affairs, we are on the level of over 1.8% of total financial expenses. Although the focus of the issue has increased in all fields over the past few years, this rate has declined slightly between years. These results have been achieved by substantial management and the use of funds. A respectable president. The importance of foreign affairs will grow in the next few years. We always face new challenges in foreign affairs. Next year, we will lead in the Council of North Pole, the Norwegian Ministers and will cooperate with the foreign ministers of the Northern and Baltic States as well as in the World Bank. In addition to this, Iceland's seat in the United Nations Human Rights Council is an important site for speaking for our baseline. The European Commission is now faced with the urgent task of ensuring the easy access of Icelandic enterprises to the British markets for EU discharges. So the project is very important, and it is important to maintain good relations over Iceland's main interests in foreign affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u195	Madam President. I'm gonna come in on two. I'm gonna start by thanking the highest. Secretary of state for an excellent review. It's a pleasure to share our mind on improving our presence and promoting interests when it comes to the EEA Convention and how good it is that there is an increased budget available for this. However, it is surprising in the context of the fact that the third energy package should not be taken for next year's assembly until February. Although that's not directly related to the budget, I'd like to ask the highest level. A minister who is well versed in these matters what it can do for the EEA and Iceland's communications with other EEA countries if we don't bring it in and what the economic impact it could have on the nation. Other than that, I'd like to ask the Minister for Iceland's contributions to development cooperation. They are part of our international commitments to combat poverty, and I feel that the government is not worth the effort. True, the centenarian grows with increasing national income, but there is a long way from what we can be satisfied with. They are planned to be 0.35% at the end of a five-year financial program. The current Senate arrangement required them to be 0.4% 2016, and we are far from the UN target of 0.7%. It is also completely unacceptable that 40% of the amount referred to in developing cooperation should be undertaken by domestic assistance. I'd like to know if a minister agrees with me in this matter and if he intends to promote it because nothing is mentioned in the paragraph on foreign matters. Also, I would ask a minister at last if he had found it more enjoyable to introduce it now, since we made the 2013 Parliamentary decree.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u196	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for an excellent input. It's good that we agree to promote EU interests. This is one of the things I've put special emphasis on, and it went right into when I sat down in the chair of a foreign minister because we can affect the early stages. Sadly, the arrangement we had in Brussels was very weak when we met in the EU and were not put back until now, by placing 160 million in interest. That means we'll have a representative at Brussels when it's over. With regard to the third energy pack, we'll discuss it on a second occasion. Those cases are not exactly relevant, but they are something we need to discuss thoroughly as well as the EEA deal. I think we've forgotten many of the good things that have been done to us by that agreement, so we take things for granted. But I can't go over it in a short answer. In terms of contributions to development, I consider the top, at least proportionately, that few budget teams have increased as much in recent years as contributions to development. We are talking about an increase of 3,000 million each year, starting in 2013,2017. If we are going to reach a 0.7% increase, it is 19 billion, which is, though, quite more than all the contributions we now make to foreign affairs. I believe that gypsy is generally good, and it's wise, especially when we're growing now, and I'm stressing that we're really good at how we use that money. It's public funds, and it's important that we do it well. I stress that we are having discussions at the council and that the Congress will provide the Ministry and the government when it is due. But we have an enormous rise. Let's not talk her down.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u197	Madam President. Yes, public interests - but what is common? The world is changing, and we are becoming part of what can be called a worldwide family. Of course, we should support these noble goals. But I'm not making a comment about it, although we have to do it in some step. However, I object to a proposal for a resolution on a new development team policy of 2019,2023 that says this is similar to the 2013 agreement. That's not true. It's not like that. There's a phase difference if it's not different because, in that suggestion, we're going to and we're going to reach 0.7%. The current proposal says that the United Nations aims to provide 0.7% of industrialized countries. I would've wanted to get into the council arrangement that Iceland will also fulfill it, but I don't expect anyone else to. The minister did not have time to comment on 40% of the developing cooperation going to domestic assistance. Some DAC countries have wanted to allow this to be used almost unlimited while others have mentioned that we should stay on an average of 12.5%. Wouldn't be clever and human in it, top dog. Minister, that we now make financial adjustments to the text and say that the object of national support by developing cooperation will not be more than 12.5%?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u198	A respectable president. I think that's what I'm talking about. A candidate refers to the cost of protection for candidates and due to the host's capital in proportion to donations. Whatever it is. A senator could also have been talking about is the percentage of the money we put in this that goes to developing countries. We have the highest share of the North countries.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u199	That's not true.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u200	Then I'm referring to our putting the most into developing countries of what we put in, according to the figures I've ever seen. I'm not talking about naval people, I'm talking about something else, the way men enforce their development aid.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u201	We're a much larger proportion of...
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u202	- Because it's two things. It's the other way around. It's really the way people put things forward. We're in the same way as the FAC rules. We're not going to change our books. Then they can say that we should put more or less, etc. But it's about how people compare between countries. What I'm calling attention to, because we're talking about how high we put the money in developing countries, is that we're putting more of our evolutionary money into developing countries than the rest of the North countries. Then I'm not referring to the protection or to the people of the party. Hv. A senator can study this on a foreign - language committee, which may call for information. It is true that there are ways in which humans apply this. We have a very low proportion of people we use in our country, would it not be the primary focus of the United Nations University? The northern nations and other nations have many other tools they use to help the developing nations, which are new in their own country. One European country spends 90% or 95% of its share in developing domestic assistance. It's a lot of things to look at. Therefore it is of great importance, and I exhort that it may be discussed on the depth. [[The president calls.]] I'm glad to hear that. A senator completely agrees with me in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u203	V.E.G. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for excellent passage. What impresses me on this budget bill involved in the foreign service is that there is a considerable expansion in the ministry, there is a significant increase in the number. According to a follow-up of the budget bill, there are some factors. There are an increase of 135 million in the main office, the embassy receives 481 million, a protection of 286 million, an international development team 422, and an EEA fund of 290 million. It can truly be said that under the direction of the current minister of foreign affairs, the service is to get more money and expand, which I don't think is unnecessary, but it is a certain new tone to the highest degree. A minister is making a decision about his being a senator. Then something else exclaimed when it came to the foreign service. It's all a matter of emphasis. What lines are being set in the ministry? But I'd like to ask a few questions here. According to one estimate, 78 million expenses should be reduced. K. vs. elevations. Where will they be taken from? Then there are contributions for development; they seem to be increasing, interesting in view of what has been previously said by the senator in this and elsewhere hall. Is this really an increase in donations for the sake of national income? Or are these some kind of billrooms? Is it simply a matter of calculating more of the global development team than has ever been done? Or is it really being added? I'd also like to ask about the funds offered on behalf of the UUNESCO administrative board. I have a lot of questions, and I'm putting a big question mark on this offer. I would have thought that we should offer ourselves and help in places or agreements or institutions where we are really strong as if the desert contract was to be spoken of or buried, etc. I'd like to know what the total supply of Iceland will be for this campaign to UNESCO. Then I'd like to ask about the EES Building Fund. In 2015 the problem arose. A senator, by permission of the President, ▪ We have two types of donations, one on the one hand to the countries called a developing country, and then we place enormous sums of money in development aid to the EU. That's what I've been up to, and I hope that's what I do. My position of government will support me and us in the means to provide funds for those who need more. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm going to the top. So a minister would take advantage of the funds that go to the EEA's developing fund now for international development cooperation, as he spoke of in 2015?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u204	A respectable president. There is no other tone with them here from his being a senator. I got it. I got it. A senator to learn about the practicality of the government, which me and Hauksdóttir Huksdótttir and Daðason Ejallon and Konráðsdóttir Kondósdótir arrived with them at their time. I encourage him to look at the part on foreign affairs. [[Up front.]] That's exactly what I'm doing, huh? Senator. Since when has a embassy been shut in good news? When has this been done before? We've closed two. We covered exactly where the need was most. We shut down because we didn't have to have embassies. We went to the Hall of Congress, huh? A senator, and elsewhere, for the extra funds in foreign service, to open an office in Strasbourg. I didn't. I used them... [[Up front.]] I'm talking, what. Senator, you'll find out later. I've taken advantage of that funds in our interest management, both with regard to Bfenit and also with the EEA treaties. Clearly, that is not unnecessary. True, it did not directly benefit from the foreign service. Rather, it is financed representatives of the Council, who have not been there any longer because money was not put back on it, not priors, in caring for our interests in the EEA. For an Iceland lab, a respectable president, it is precisely in line with what was discussed in the practicality of the group I specifically referred to here. There are no different priorities in this regard. Let's just go team for the increase. We're putting 50 million people in the North, because we're taking lead. We're putting 48 million in the Norwegian Ministers because we're taking over the lead. I've been through the EEA deal. There's 160 million going on the visas we receive, that's just coming to the accounts not of the Ministry of State, but in financial accounts. I can go, a respectable president, continue through this, and it's just fine, and it makes me happy and happy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u205	Madam President. Thank you very much. Secretary of State for his review of the Ministry's financial affairs. As noted, between years and years, there are high increases, or about 1.7 billion. In effect, the financial bill is a sign that left men are in charge there. This is their main interest in expanding the state's table, and the Independence Party is now sharing in the party. To be honest, I thought the best. A minister of foreign affairs would not be a spokesman for spreading the state in such a way. I know as much as when he was a health minister and then the vice president of the legal committee was a special friend to the cutting knife, so a spokesman for the saving process was taken. Only to get an interesting answer from the highest. A minister on matters that may not concern the Ministry directly would be pleased to know if he still felt that the State's Bank Office should be put down, but it now receives 60 million on the budget bill by 2019. What I wanted to ask the highest. To this point, a minister is made up of this increase to the embassy and is specifically mentioned in the bill an increase to the embassy in India. It may have something to do with visas and increased activity in this regard, and I guess it's true that one of the Icelandic international airlines is planning to fly to India, but I understand that these plans are somewhere in a sort of upset state. So the question is, Is there a need for this? Then, the highest. Ministers of this prehumanity at the Ministry and the Council of North Pole, 50 million and 50 million again, 100 million. I just want to ask the minister: Is there anything better for the Ministry's workers to be used in this regard, e.g. An ambassador who is about to retire to do this in such a way that when we take the lead, we may not need these enormous expenses? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u206	A respectable president. Hv. A senator can be absolutely sure that I was, is, and becomes a spokesman for handling public funds well. This will be done in this financial bill, especially with regard to foreign affairs. Hv. The senator, of course, must be correct in handling facts when talking about an increase, and he refers to prehumanity, he has come to realize that it is a prehumanity. True, I think it's exemplary and it should be in general that we're specifying exactly what we're doing. I can assure you what. Of course, the senator is using the active force in it. One thing I did to sharpen what comes in proposals for future foreign service is to appoint a special branch of the home emissary to use the active force of these individuals to whom he specifically referred. When premeditation is completed - this has a natural cost, it is a conference cost, travel costs, and other factors besides the need to call for special assistance in many cases. If we just do the Arctic work, it has been noticed at this critical time how we will succeed. We've had 50 million a year on this huge task looking to us around the world, where I don't think anyone can claim that there's anything too tense when it comes to money. I got it. I got it. A senator to compare what other nations may put into it. I call attention to the money put in the passport check-ups coming back. It's not just the State Department. That money comes into the Ministry of finance. I don't think there's anybody against us putting power in visas, and we hope that our airlines, who are doing well in this business, will keep making their feet strong and keep bringing tourists to our country because that's something we live in. [[The president calls.]] That's why economic growth has been up here, as we know it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u207	Madam President. We'll discuss the budget and the section on the foreign matter. Here's the highest. Secretary of state to comment. During a discussion with a financial programme for the next five years during the last session, I welcomed the fine and good things that were there to protect foreign affairs that showed increased emphasis on foreign resource and environment and international projects that Iceland has undergone on climate change. I would like to direct questions to the highest. The minister of state to ensure the defense of Iceland, which needs special explanations and special discussions at the Congress Hall, will continue to have a significant direct increase in financial growth and a large proportion increase in Iceland's direct contribution. I would like explanations for the added financial contributions presented in the budget at the highest level. Secretary of state, Madam President. Besides, I have to agree with the chairman of the United States United States, who spoke of the reception of the greeting. As shown on page 19. 217 in the budget is the services and the assembly of hostpowerers are classified as contributions for developing cooperation. Contrary to what was said in the case of the highest. Ministers of foreign affairs in the past are not all of the countries in theDCC opinion that this is how it should be classified. That's why I'd like to hear from the highest level. Secretary of State whether it is Iceland's policy to add to this and whether or not we have worked in a targeted way within theDCC to bring it together, because this is a substantial amount of money, as shown on page 2. 217. Part of these costs are estimated to be 1,707 million. K. next year. It would be very nice to have an explanation for that, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u208	A respectable president. I'm perfectly willing to discuss the defences and other issues, that's only for sure. We are in the Atlantic Community, with a fixed status, so what we have been involved in naturally turns toward such direct factors as our radar system and some maintenance projects on the Chefjordur airport, for example. Then we take part in civilian activities at the scene of the Atlantic Community. We're proud to be in the Atlantic Union. Fortunately, we have been there. It's just part of our national security policy. I don't think anyone can argue with any fairness that what we put into this party - although it's hard to compare our contributions to the defenses of other countries because we don't have an army and we don't have an army. In other countries, there are some things that do not involve our defenses. Nevertheless, like other Atlantic alliances, we participate in these activities, and we take into account what we do. That's fine. In terms of whether or how to compare the budget for developing countries between countries, I have to admit that it's a little secondary to me. Of course, our main concern must be what we put forth effort and how we do so. Hence, we must be able to compare our contributions with those of other kingdoms in the right way. I don't make any disagreements about it, I don't think it's unusual that this is done in this way, as other nations do, but not at all. I don't think that's the main thing. We must talk about our efforts and how they work for us. I have declared it before in this chair today, and I have done so more often that I am very willing to discuss these matters both with members of the assembly and with the nation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u209	Madam President. It's good to see in the bill that more money is put on to the Brussels embassy that reflects a serious gain in our interest in the EEA agreement. At the top. You will agree with the importance of putting great emphasis on Iceland's international interests. Then the point of action is to shape the overall policy of foreign trade, a positive step, that I think. But it might be said that a general policy so far was even. to accompany the EEA and work with the EFTA countries in terms of free trade agreements, however, with exceptions in China and the Faeroe Islands, and with the recently converted Iceland Office, as well as with business agents in the embassies and thus the market for the country. Many may view this as a good thing; others may feel that it is rather a great release. I'm open to progress. I would like to ask: Who will shape this new foreign policy? When does that work start? What emphasis will the minister give against third states? Will we look forward to more two - sided agreements, and with what countries? What's the highest. A minister prefers to think about that? How does that rhyme with the EEA deal? Of course, we need to think a little bit in the context of Baltrexit, which is now about 196 days. That's what makes it great. A minister assumes that we will enter two-sided commercial agreements with the British? Or is it the goal of following the EFTA? Then you have to ask the money about this. There is no specific increase in the budget for this objective. I wondered how much this will cost and what will not be done in return. So, finally you may ask, since it's only about the international business: shouldn't Iceland finally have a general public policy on foreign affairs in general? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u210	A respectable president. It was a little soup from questions. I'm gonna try to cross something like I can get across. The EEA Treaty is very good in many ways, but especially in that way, we are not locked in the European Union customs union. If we were in there, it would be an enormous damage to us. This means we can negotiate with those we want. The EFTA countries were merely trying to negotiate with the same countries as the EU, but since then they have taken other steps. Then we've made deals with China and Faeroe Islands, like a whisker. A senator refers to him. One of the EFTA countries, Switzerland, has made a deal with Japan, so we don't have to do it in the field of EFTA unless there is a specific decision to do so. We are active participants in the International Business Organization, and we have done what we can and will continue to protect this environment. We invite EFTA to contribute to EFTA so that we do more than less and work hard when it comes to vacation contracts. That's our main field. Regarding Bbifit, it knows why. A member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, what stage we've drawn there. It's not exactly what it's like. We have been in contact with not only the British authorities but also the European Union and the EFTA countries, so we are trying to prepare for any situation that may arise. British government reactions have been very positive, but there is no reason to rejoice until the conclusion comes. Whether it will be with the EFTA, the EEA or the non-EU, the EEA or the two sided will only show up. We are not at the point where we can talk about it. In terms of the cost, we went to a full reexamination and policy of the foreign service. That's where we try to set priorities, e.g. to use more local staff. We've just been shutting down our embassys and appoint agents where they weren't, on distant markets. If we are to maintain a high standard of living here, we must negotiate on more markets than we are now. [[The president calls.]] We're in a hurry. For one thing, I was in China.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u211	Madam President. I'd like to pick up the thread from where it was left off. My colleague. I'd like to ask you a few questions on human rights matters and focus on the highest priority. Minister of them. I look especially at them in the form of several steps that can be found on page 20. 210 of the budget bill, mainly measures 4 and 5 that show that the plan is to strengthen the justice, cooperation and participation of international institutions and regional cooperation, increase consultations in the state and management agencies of the whole, to support institutions, projects and events that contribute to increased respect for human rights, equality, national rights, and humanity on a global scale as well as to valid and confirm international agreements. It's coming out there, too. I wondered about some of the interactive factors. First of all, we have no embassy in Strassbourg, as it has been and before the Council of Europe, but we will also take lead soon, in the Council of Ministers of the European Council. We are a member of the United Nations Human Rights Council. We are also on the United Nations Child Welfare Committee. The role of the director of ODIHR is the European Court of Human Rights and Cooperation and the executive of the European Parliament's Legal and Human Rights Committee. I don't know that any formal audience area or some form of coordination field exists for these many roles that we share together. It leads me to another goal that can be found at the bottom of the same page, that Iceland's facility will be well supervised by the Council of Human Rights in 2019 and work on emphasises that include: That equality, rights of queer people, and reforms within the council I often feel that I detect a very misleading Iceland policy on human rights. We're going for example. To validate some vacation agreement with the Philippines, we are going to participate in the national television event in Tel Aviv, Israel, but we have no specific human rights policy. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking the highest. A minister would be interested in establishing such a course and would like to establish the harmony of the human rights institutions in which we are involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u212	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for her input. As far as human rights are concerned, we find ourselves in the United Nations Council of Human Rights to take possession of American seats when it was released, as it is known. It's not any worse than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u213	I'm just asking you a policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u214	Just so they keep a whole line on it, it's no worse than that. We were searched, and there was widespread support in the Western groups behind us to go in there. We have considered how we will deal with these issues. A foreign press committee and I don't see any conflicting messages when we make free trade agreements that we're doing and have done for a very long time, with countries that don't meet the conditions we want to see in human rights. There has been a conclusion on Icelandic foreign politics until now, and I think most people agree there, that we are more likely to see better and better human rights in those countries when more business is done. It's, for example. For example, the basis for free trade agreements with China was expressed at the beginning of the year. Foreign Directoring Committee at that time. Hv. A senator named the embassy in Strasbourg. I just went over that earlier that we're putting up with each other every time some special project. A senator rightly mentioned that we are taking in the lead there. Then we need to draw special closer to it. I think it is unwise to approach this in another way that when we take a certain assignment, we put our money on it when the assignment is completed, we stop. If that were the way the entire government would be built up, the survival and savings would be much greater. Of course, when it comes to taking over the lead in Strasbourg, we will all work hard to make it happen. It will also require some money and priorities within the foreign service, but the answer to the general human rights issue, policy, consultation and so on is that it is one of the things we are working on and will continue to work on, as shown in the budget. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u215	Madam President. Thank you very much. The minister of his tour of the seminary, as he sees in his financial respect. I'd like to ask you a few questions. First of all, I would like to ask about business pressure against Russia if the State Department of State had a special expense due to the involvement of the country in these measures and whether it is in the financial bill. I'd also like to ask a minister about contributions for development cooperation. According to a financial bill, the next year's contributions to development are expected to be at least 6 billion, compared with the next half - a - half - sixth billion, 5.5 billion, in the current year. The increase from year to year is, according to this, about half a billion years. I ask a minister: What are the goals behind these numbers, and what measures of success are used when making decisions on these issues? What requirements do ministers make for the success of this work? In this regard, I would like to ask if a minister can inform us about what is going on in general among neighboring nations when it comes to the question of whether the cost to the pleasure of pleasure should be calculated by means of expenses for developing cooperation, also in international comparison. Finally, I would like to ask about the United Nations University in Iceland and would like to hear from a minister about the success and access of the Ministry to his affairs. [[The president calls.]] What is the vision of a minister of this work that many have praised?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u216	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for an excellent request. First of all, business pressure with Russia and cost. It's not specifically booked, but we've had a lot of contact with Russia, although it changed according to the Skripal case on top of top executives. Of course, this interaction translates work for the Ministry and, in fact, counsellors, especially for the minister being present. It is not only a matter of taking advantage of the business pressure that came down badly; rather, they have taken out certain deportations that they say do not meet health conditions that indicate that there is no right. But it's not specifically booked. There is a lot of communication with Russia and the Russian government, especially now because of the Arctic Council, but nothing is taken out of the way. Developmental contributions are now slightly higher than that. A senator referred to him. For the measuring devices, we'll let foreign parties, i.e. The International Society, its arrival, and the DiaC, an institution or association center of OECD, has been taking out our developing cooperation and has given her a fine witness and then made specific comments that we are doing. Of course, I insist that money be used in the best way possible. It's a matter of fact, it's this humanitarian help that we're offering when we have emergency issues. We are involved in certain organizations, special organizations of the United Nations, and then two - sided assistance. The cost of a shelterer is inside. It's not an Icelandic invention. It's this way because of international control. For the United Nations University, I believe that this task is one of the things that we can be very happy with and that, in many respects, is a central theme, at least in the cases of evolution. However, we need to see how we can use this even more fully. [[The president calls.]] We are making significant improvements, and in a few years, we have added 3,000 million each year to the developing world. [[The president calls.]] One of the things we will naturally add is this school, and the question is, How can we make the most of it? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u217	Madam President. I just got up here to thank the Minister for a very clear and clear answer. Perhaps I'd like to mention that the figures I presented here were next read from the page. 56 in a follow-up with the budget bill, so I just want to trust what it says.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u218	A respectable president. I know why. paritaprevir Ísleifsson Isleustafsson is good with numbers, but this is one of the natural challenges of humans. This is more than a direct donation. In part, what is involved in the search for refuge is also introduced into the developing world, which distinguishes between them. I know why. A senator is both numbers and read correctly, so it's not to be understood in any way that I've been showing off. This is one of the things people do here, saying it's unnatural to take numbers with the trustees in it, but it's just to have international comparisons correctly. Rather, we are going to face up to whether we want to be more involved in the seminary. This is so that we are comparing apples and apples, not apples and oranges.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u219	Madam President. What is well done should always be commended. V.E.G. The Minister of Foreign Affairs makes a great point of strengthening EEA cooperation, and it takes place with more money at that seminary. On the other hand, I'm a little worried if there's enough to be done. I suppose the highest. Ministers share my concerns about attending the EEA Convention, including of some guys. The members of the council, most of whom were dismayed. In this context, I would like to ask the highest. Minister of State, if it is not right to prioritize further in financial contributions for the implementation of the EEA contract within the Ministry. Second, how does he like to make a special campaign of the EEA translation and appendage among the people and spending money on it? It would, for example, be there. can be followed by the Norwegian example. Finally, I'd like to commend the highest. Secretary of State for deciding to take at least ten months, if I took the right time, to review the EU situation and defects in terms of a report request presented here. In fact, I think it would have been right to take care of that longer, but anyway. Then again, praise is still being added because of the mastery of getting a wide - minded, international - minded person to lead that work and ensure that it is done well. If well, the assessment, which I am convinced of to the highest. Minister wants, I'm really worried about her financing. So I ask: What is the estimated cost of this assessment, and where is the financial cost expected?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u220	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record. I'm just recovering, I don't remember what happened. A senator has praised me so much, but I try to recover quickly and well because I have so little time. We're talking about the EEA deal and one of the first things I did when I came to the Ministry was about to start a job to suggest how we could better protect our interests in terms of the contract. Unfortunately, the system we had, as we've gone through, was taken to a large part down when we were in the adaptation interview and not put up again, and we're taking it back up to a large extent. However, this is not only about the Ministry of State but also about other problems, and it is assumed in these suggestions. The increase now totals to 160 million makes it clear that we are financing agents from the fauna so that they will represent all medical resources in Brussels in order to monitor the classes where this could be related to Iceland's interests. When it comes to the campaign as a dog. A senator's point, and he is also under the suggestions, must be very careful. To me, it's about trying to put facts on the table, and it can't be any kind of proselytism. One of the things we heard from the Norwegians was that it doesn't matter what you do. I think it's really important that we take up a discussion about the EEA deal because we've had a quarter of a century and we've forgotten some of the benefits that come with it, we'll talk to them at least. Not much, just when we felt it. I think it's a great strength not only to have Björn Bjarnason in this report but also to Kristrún Heimisdóttir and Bergþóra Halldórsdóttir. Bjarnason led a report published in 2007 on the EEA Convention. It included the son of▁Össur Skarphéðinsson and the daughter of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, and other powerful individuals. It was a very good report that men would have better carried out and the suggestions there were. [[The president calls.]] He knows these matters back and forth and forth, and a great advantage to have him and the other two members in this job, but they have to call many more because even though they are powerful people, they will not finish this themselves. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u221	Madam President. I know it's the highest. The minister of foreign affairs will be very quick to recover from my unexpected ambush in the General's deliveries. I'd like to reiterate my question about the cost of the report that Björn Bjarnason will be running. I'd like to pick up another thread, and that's Operation No. 13 to support the target of No. 5 In the section on Foreign Affairs, which says that the procedure should ensure Iceland's interest in negotiations carried out by the United Kingdom out of the EU in accordance with government policy. I don't quite understand what these treaties are, whether these are the contracts between the European Union and Britain, or the relevant EU contracts with the British, and I'd like to explain it. Then I noticed that in the Constitution, there is a bill for contracts to be submitted in November. I think there's still a little bit of a way in the British and Europeans' way to get together, so I don't quite figure it out at that timeline, but anyway. Are these real agreements on matter or do the bill go into technical hatches because there is a decrease in one state in the European Union, etc.? It would be nice to get an explanation, as well, because we're talking about the budget, what the cost will be if anyone does.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u222	A respectable president. First of all, the cost of the EEA Commission, some tens of millions are expected there. I want to pray. I'm sorry I don't have it in a quick room, but I have to call various experts and put a lot of work into it, except for using the work available in the Ministry. As I pointed earlier, it's not about that some three people can do this differently, they control it, and they have to call in a number of people. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator doesn't have to worry about being saved because it's very important. We know this from the reports that they have been published, but we do not see the cost, since this is such a matter of interest that we need to have as good and as clear information as possible. That's what I'm talking about. A senator refers to the Baltrexit issue, and we have had the stage photos I mentioned. Ever since I've taken over as a minister, our policy has been to be ready for all the films that might come up. There is now the possibility that if I remember this correctly, the primary signals related to the curfew, the rights of citizens and trade will be submitted. We are working in a close relationship, not only with the British authorities, but also with other EEA countries and the European Union. We're trying to have a good, close cooperation with all these parties. It's all very close to our allies and the benefit of all of us that it's going as well. One down. A senator asked me earlier which way we're going. We're not here yet. We will not control it on our own. The agreements of the British and the European Union will be subject to much wonder. All we can do is be as well prepared as possible for all possible scenarios so that when things happen, and they could happen very fast, we don't have to prepare something that we should have been prepared for. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u223	Madam President. Thank you very much. Secretary of State for the answers to the questions I raised to him on the matter of security and protection and financial contributions to them. We'll be late to agree on them, but I still insist that we discuss in a routine security and defense situation at the Senate Hall. I think it's the good stuff and the organized discussion of foreign affairs over and at all. Another factor that we clearly need to discuss is the development team. We're doing better than before. Although we do not fulfill the UN's 0.7% objective as to the proportion of gross national product, we are doing better than before. When it comes to sorting out the service of host - power workers in the country as developing cooperation contributions, we also need to discuss that decision, and particularly in the Assembly Hall. Clearly, we have enough to talk about this council winter in foreign affairs, and I know the highest. A minister would agree with me. I'd like to come to the end, and I can't resist the temptation, talking about the decision not to rebuild Iceland's emissary to the Council of Europe in Strasbourg, which means that we are the only 47 people in the Council of Europe who do not have an office at the council, in contrast to what was before a collapse, and who were determined to rebuild 2016. This is certainly disappointing, for although an ambassador's office has already been established in the Red Sea River River, which includes "the king of the Red Sea. " with European Council issues, which are well and good, Iceland will be leading the European Council in 2021. It doesn't have to be reiterated, neither for the highest. Ministers or others in this room, how important the Council of Europe and the European Parliament is in the field of human rights, law and democracy. The institutions of the European Parliament, including the Ministers of Ministers, the Council of Europe and the European Court of Human Rights, are the most important human rights institutions in Europe, and our very presence in Strasbourg is that matter. I want, especially as president of the European Parliament and its vice president, to encourage the Supreme Court. Minister of state to increase funding when it comes to strengthening the presence of us Icelanders at the Council of Europe. It's where we're supposed to live when it comes to civil rights, rights of the citizens and to secure the democracy of all of us in this continent. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u224	A respectable president. It's nice to be chewed out on both sides. The average is just fine. Thank you. A senator for what she crossed. You're absolutely right. A senator says we have some subjects to discuss. Safety and protection are for example. Something we have to talk about. I think it's very important to be aware of how much has changed in a few years. The added emphasis on this area, too, is something I don't think has ever happened before. The national security and protection partnerships are always increasing, and this is true of both the countries in NATO and the outside. Sweden and Finland are in full cooperation, are very interested in it, and indeed they are the closest member states of the Atlantic Community. I think this is a good development, but it's not a good development that we need to discuss security and defenses as much as possible, but I think it's a good development that the North countries work together. There's strength for all of us. For Strasbourg, it is quite premise that when we take up a project like management there we will put more into it, just as I crossed the river. I think it's good that instead of setting things off - then they don't drop it, and sometimes they try to change it in some way - we take some missions, put capitals in them for two, three, four years, try to do it as effectively as possible, and then we do the job and we do some other work, which we give the utmost importance of doing the same work. I don't have the list from 2007 saying, "I need it because it was 2007." That's not how I approach it. I'm getting close, like, "How are our interests the most secure?" If we were starting with an empty sheet of paper, what kind of foreign service would we make? We're not supposed to focus this on what was ever just because. We are to do so because we are guarding our interests in many areas of Iceland, and we are to do this in the most practical and practical way possible. [[The president calls.]] That's why I agree. There's nothing to tell a senator about. A senator wants to go there. [[The president calls.]] All I'm saying is that I'm not getting close to this thing so that men have achieved perfection of 2007 and that we need to get back there. [[The president calls.]] I don't think that's the approach.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u225	The president would like to make an arrangement for the discussion. The minister has five minutes to history, so one member of the council can direct the inquiry to the minister and have two minutes to do so twice. However, members of Congress may decide that two members of the Parliament will speak from a category for just two minutes each. Those answers will not be allowed. The president urges both ministers and members of Congress to respect the deadline as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u226	A respectable president. I thank you for the opportunity to set up a large bill for the next year's budget and, in particular, to expand the nature of the case according to the issues that are being heard by the Ministry of Justice. There are actually three of them. It's a topic field which is number 2 in the budget bill for the courts, and it's number 9 in the budget bill, which is the subject of public and justice, and it's a topic field of 10 that has to do with individual and religious rights. The total expenditure of the three topic areas is estimated to be 47.7 billion. ... onthe fiscalRelation and increase by less than 5.2 billion dollars. which is about 12.2% increase. I'd like to mention that in these budgets, there are two teams who hear the Ministry of Justice, but they're in the field of the Ministry of Presidency, that's an uninhabited commission and a state lawyer, which may be considered as a minor part of the entire budget. I'd like to briefly account for these three areas of affairs and first move on to the courts. The courts estimate the value of 3.2 billion, 70 billion. K. increase from current year, approximately 2.2%. If we look at real - life changes in donations to the unique media of the topic field, that will be about 39 million. K. decrease of input to the Supreme Court. This is due to a reduction of one rank of the Supreme Court and one rank of an assistant. This is in accordance with effects due to changes made on court law. There is little about the court field, really. Of course, there have been great changes, as we know, in the judiciary system in this country with the establishment of the National Court and the Court, but I have high expectations that the Court of Justice will take action to promote the administration of the courts and that the Court has made it appear to be a good start and all in accordance with a financial program. Then I'd like to proceed next to the local public security sector. This will be spent next year, 29 billion dollars. and better, less than 30 billion dollars, and that's an increase of 4.8 billion, an increase of 19%. The main real changes in donations can really be divided into four parts. First of all, there is a contribution to the State Guard, of which 1,900 million. K. which is spent on the prenup of three new helicopters. Second, it's 1,300 million. K. The contribution to the police, of which more than 800 million are devoted to financing implementation of a border control programme and to integrated cross-border control. 410 million to respond to increased pressure on the law for the growth of tourists, so I'm pulling on a big one in the short period of time I've got. Third, there's a substantial sum of 100 million. K., intended to go to the highest level to ensure full efficiency of the jails in this country, especially the prison in Hólmsuk, which has not been in full use but is now heading toward the end of this year. Fourth and final, the bill assumes 62 million. K. a contribution to the prosecution and a hearing to support the local district attorney's financial reforms. This is to face the comments of international money-cancellations that have been made here in Iceland. Then I want to step aside briefly to the topic area on individual and religious rights. Under these circumstances, the Ministry of Justice is also represented. In this area, it is estimated that 14.5 billion, 306 billion. K. increased, 2.1% increased. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] Well, maybe it's going to be about 77 million. K. a contribution to the Federal Protection to meet the introduction of new laws, as the World of Congress knows. In return, contributions to the election are being made. We have hopes that next year there will not be elections, so this is an increase to the Federal Protection Agency. Now I see that time is really out, but I'd like to mention specifically that there's a negotiation with the National Church that now finally sees the end. In the case of foreigners, it seems to us that there is a slight increase in the number of people in the Foreign Institute for Israel in some sort of remission. [[The president calls.]] Otherwise, I look forward to sharing in the discussions here on the legal matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u227	Madam President. I come up here to discuss the foundation of society as the highest. Minister of Justice, you see, law enforcement. The group's budget is rising almost 1,150 million. A k, which is a huge sum of money, and it is necessary to promote law enforcement in the country that has been allowed to descend dangerously on the watch of the Independence Party, despite the repeated warning given by the U.S. Marshal, Marshal, and chairman of the National Association of Police Officers. The estimated budget needed to have minimal design for law enforcement is 3 billion dollars. When a glimpse of these figures was observed, more than 1 billion k, it was not free of hope for the senator. Is the law finally being promoted? Are we finally going to guarantee minimum care for the police? In many parts of the country, there are empty police stations, no one on duty, one sleeping policeman with the phone on the night table, three police officers guarding 60,000 citizens in the capital area, and so on. It may be seen as a sign of the budget at its height. Ministers of justice and finance are finally responding to an emergency call received from the police for years? No, Madam President. For example, when the budget is discovered, of the more than 1,100 million added to the seminary, 850 are required to go to a border check, 230 are being put in equipment. There is no discussion of growth in general law enforcement. So I want to ask the highest. Minister of Justice: Is she really not concerned about being under the force, the general law enforcement officer?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u228	A respectable president. It is still a joy to do what is right. A senator describes concern over the position of law enforcement and police manners on the streets - she has experience in police dealings with citizens, especially in the dental revolution. This was followed by the revolution of cutting down the law enforcement officers, so it was in total opposition to at least The position of the one standing here and the entire Independence Party. I had the latest development of law enforcement spending up until 2007. Then you will see this cut - off operation that was in the middle of the stock market revolution. A senator did not ignore himself in a memorable way, and he communicated with the police on that subject. As soon as the Independence Party was rein charge of this important category, this foundation of society, 2013 and 2014, it is seen that there has been an enormous increase in legal resources; so much that it has just not been more than the eye can see, and I'm here with the table. Even at this year's prices, financial resources to the police are greatly exceeded by the financial resources of 2007, during which the gentleman enjoyeds 2007, as well as 2008. 2008 it was 12.6 billion, but we suggest that the police's legal rights for the next year be 16.5 billion. That's a huge increase. Of course, I'm worried if the police can't make their positions. We've put a lot of emphasis on it, and I've done it, to make sure that a renewal can take place by a new police force. It's an endless project. There was a special campaign to increase the number of police in connection with the treatment of sexual crime, and I make this decision and make it clear that there is a general law enforcement effort; police are not just on their feet in the street that is under there. [[The president calls.]] That was a significant increase this year.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u229	Madam President. It's amazing. Minister of Justice should be so delighted with the concern of senators and citizens, the police themselves, the former anti-enemity officer and the former chief officer Geir Jón Þórisson, of a massive individuality in the general law enforcement department of the country. Speaking of the agricultural revolution, Geir Jón Þórisson, former deputy of the Independence Party, was under arrest here with other policemen, and they were all called on deck. Since then, there is a category of the highest. The minister of justice is virtually relentless in caring for the affairs of law enforcement and today, ten years later - when the population has grown considerably, as the situation of the police needs to be carried out, so there is a greater need for the police on duty than there was before. This knows the best. Minister of Justice, though apparently no law enforcement experience, in contrast with those who have been employed here as a lawyer, a defender, and a court official for many years. Yes, the one standing here has good experience with the state of law enforcement and has only met excellent police officers in their jobs who are overwhelmed by the pressures of long - term illness that flee to other jobs. It's kind of amazing. The minister of justice is sitting here grinning over the state of law enforcement conditions they offer them. [[The president calls.]] I think she should be trying to reach the highest level of ears. The minister of finance and the possibility of getting some money into the seminary, for there is a real need. It is estimated that 3 billion people are needed to have minimal design for law enforcement in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u230	The President reminds me of why. Councilmen on the deadline.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u231	A respectable president. All I said was that I was glad to hear it. A senator may have turned aside from his error in his stand for the police, wanting to stand by the police and mention that the former procurator of the Independence Party stood watch here like more officers during the dental revolution, especially in order to get involved with people, people like him. A senator standing here gawking and crawling in the public squares, speaking disparagingly to the police, referring to the conferences and terrorist police officers who would have had to interfere with the protesters out here. At that time, the local government decided to cut down specifically on the police, cut down specifically to the police, and didn't add to the police, and didn't look back from their error until the Independence Party accepted the administrations of this category, and since then has added a substantial amount of financial resources to the police. [[After the crash.]] [[After the administration of the Independence Party.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u232	It's...
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u233	I got it. I got it. A senator and others here who listen to visit the Homepage of the Justice Department and there see an objective overview of the increased legal resources that have become available to law enforcement since 2007. No one has to doubt it - [[I don't think helicopters are law enforcement.]] President. I'll have peace to answer back. A senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u234	V.E.G. Minister has become.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u235	I urge men to look at this. There is absolutely no doubt that legal rights have increased to law enforcement up to that point, above any other subject within the Board of Directorates. No matter what. A senator may feel that way, and he does not want to know it, so it is. The police themselves and professionals there are setting priorities for those projects where they are most needed at any given time. The number of policemen in the street is being increased, including increasing the number of police in difficult research projects. in acts of sexual immorality that have been hurt and done so, especially at the time when a group of people fell asleep in death. That was the case with a senator. [[The president calls.]] I've heard nothing but great pleasure from the police in general about the development of these matters. Even if a person takes some form of media position in the near future, the police have found great pleasure in the development of these matters and even so that they have the means to increase but have not even been able to reproduce fast enough, even if they have the means to do so. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u236	The President reminds me of both. Councilmen and the highest. The minister should again respect the deadline and give the speaker the word.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u237	V.E.G. President. I have to admit, I feel that this discussion has started badly. First, thanks to what's done well, of course, it's a good thing to add to the border guard at the Keflavor Airport, I know about it very well, and to add five men on duty, as I would like to, if it were a shift design. However, I am putting in question signs that are being distributed the strength of a border guard and placed part of it to the governor. In fact, I also have a question mark on how the State Marshal's Office has grown at the expense of the traditional police service in the country. That's conclusive. I'm not going to hang myself in 2007, I'm going to go to 2000. If we're going to move a number of police in the capital area to what was in 2000, we need a billion dollars. We need 83 status values that, when given proben, are only 17 days old because there are five positions in one 24 - hour man. I must admit that I fear the lack of understanding that I feel is the greatest expression. Secretary of the general police force. I just don't understand it. I have to admit it. I am grateful for the effort being made in the sex crime department last year, and this is very helpful. True, it caused a cow in the research ward because it is a constant piece of butt. There's no one policy. I'm not going to wriggle at the highest. Minister to see if the design of the police is the same as it was in 2000. I'm going to ask for a written inquiry after the weekend, as it turns out. Then we do not have to scribble the minister's ignorance of these matters. I'm also afraid of what appears to be in a paper with the budget bill, i.e. without seeing a permanent increase in the legal resources of the capital area until 2021. I'm not going to stand in character with this highest shit. Minister. I'll ask you a written inquiry, and then we'll read it together, me and the minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u238	A respectable president. I'll share my concerns with you. A senator is in charge of the police department. However, I think, and I have found it in this discussion, both within the council and outside, that there are different opinions about who the general law is. So when people talk about law enforcement, I have felt that there was something wrong with being directed to police officers on the streets. There is, of course, much right, but general law enforcement today, 2018, has just become so much bigger than that. Unidentified sex fractions, both by nature and by extent, reach the police today. This is a general law order, and I don't get tired of pointing it out because I don't feel that the investigation of sexual crime and the investigation of economic crime and the investigation of Internet crimes and an investigation of organized crime that isn't being carried out on the streets is a general law. She's a public law enforcement officer. Officials, including in the capital area, an increasing number of investigators, not necessarily police officers. This is an inevitable trend, but it does not change the overall growth of law enforcement. It won't change it, and I'll start worrying about it. A senator because we also need to ensure the growth of public police forces, and that is what we do with them. The measures I specifically took, to ensure more room for students at Akureyri School, to go to law school. We need to make sure that we get released police officers and changes in our studies at the time, and now it's time to find out how it's going to work. We all like it, but we need to make sure that these people, in turn, turn to law enforcement. I've been very interested, so I'm not worried about the newcomer for a long time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u239	Madam President. The U.S.R. receives more than 2 billion in the budget and more than 2.5 billion in charge. I am a cohesive of the Congregational Church, and it plays an important role in national life and maintains the religious cultural background of the nation. I haven't come here to discuss the church funds in a direct way, since much of it is based on a so - called church agreement that I believe should be respected. But what I would like to say about the church during this discussion and at the highest point. The minister of justice and the head of church affairs are reports that have been published regarding various procedures that the church has conducted over the years. It is true that the church has lost many of these matters. I believe the Church should make every effort to make peace, that is, in the spirit of what the church represents and proclaims. Too bad when the church violates the rights of its own employees. Recently I saw e.g. that the church has appealed a case that she lost in a province against a priest because of his profession. In this case it was stated on the part of the court that the bishop had violated legal laws in the matter. I would have preferred to see that the money the church has spent in litigation would be devoted to the building up of the church work. What I want to know is the highest. Minister of Justice has discussed this with the bishop. As I mentioned earlier, a lawsuit always costs money, and it is to be avoided if possible, especially if it is directed against the church's dedicated servants. The church is to be exemplary in this as another. In general, I'd like to say that news over the past few years on some administrative decisions within the church gives us reason to ask a minister in what way the Ministry's Office is being monitored and the highest level of advice. A minister sees for improvement on that subject. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u240	A respectable president. Hv. A senator and I share interest in church affairs and are both interested, I expect the church to be well pleased in all respects. However, it is so that the church has gained more independence and, in my opinion, has gained more independence and that I, too, am holding the church, is in the future looking for developments that will continue. The Church is and should be independent, more independent than it is. I think that litigation is what it is. A senator's objection is an example of a case in which the church is completely independent. There will never be a Minister or Ministry's table to evaluate such matters. Of course, it is in the hands of the church and of all others if they have to go to courts, but that is not all bad. This is exactly the scene to settle matters, to get a conclusion, although, of course, human efforts are made to make peace. If that does not work out, the matter must be settled before judgment. Since both institutions are under the Ministry of Justice, i.e. The church as much as it is not independent, and so do the courts, I think they can have an excellent teamwork and that this conflict will be resolved. Since the budget bill is being discussed, I'd like to make a decision about the sums of money. A senator mentioned and referred to the budget bill that may have been balanced with a sum of money to meet the church meeting. We agree on what. A senator and I, that there must be a agreement. This has been done in the last few years since the crash.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u241	A respectable president. I wanted to talk to the highest. The Minister of Justice on Mansal, about what we've been looking at recently in the community, where I have not been mentioned in the budget. On behalf of the minister, a plan was offered against a man trader who I think was due to be seen this fall. I just want to know what the situation of this operation is. I would also like to wonder with a minister and ask if the best - known members, the labor movement, have been involved in this operation. I think it's clear that we need the labor movement to work with us; that's the ones who are dealing with it primarily. I also worry that law enforcement does not have funds to care for this part of the work, i.e. to follow the man - made hall, whether in a business hall or in a different form of a man's room. It's just like that, or it was at least that the police table came up with every week's guidelines on the manor. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: What's the plan of action? Is the money set aside to follow such a plan?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u242	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for asking about this vast and important issue. It also gives me the opportunity to mention what I couldn't say in reply to answers. A senator who felt that small funds would run to the police in the capital area. First, I'd like to mention that there has been a man-salter operation program in the Ministry. That's right, that job will end on autumn days. I hope I'll submit a report or a Mansal plan by Christmas. Mansal is by nature and in these studies a part of organized violations. As such, they are under investigation of organized police violations. This year, special estimates were 80 million. K., and came into the budget for this year, because of organized violations. It will continue. That money, 80 million I'd like to say, has run into the police in the capital area, so it's not true that people have said anything about my speech that the police in the capital area have received no increase in money. On the contrary. This is part of the increase that has fallen to the police in the capital area, 80 million for the investigation of crime. Besides, earlier this year, I introduced it immediately, increasing the number of police to study sex crimes throughout the country, throughout the United States. Of course, there is also a group of cases that can enter human halls, so a great sense of awareness has been experienced by law enforcement on this matter; courses and a wide range of education have been carried out in these matters. [[The president calls.]] That's fine.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u243	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. We earmarked special funding for this, like the highest. Minister pointed out, in the current budget. I miss seeing it not continue, especially in view of the fact that we know the need is there, and we are hopefully, as the minister says, soon to complete this operation plan. I'd like to see it better than this. I can't help asking about the politicians I've talked about here a lot; the law is often more important, and perhaps that's the nature of the situation. I don't think we have much rise here between the years, only high prices, seems to me at least. Mostly. Some of them have been in a house that has been very burdensome to them, even unnecessary in much, and of little benefit. I mention again and again the assignments that have never been delivered, which were to be done when this was separated. That's one of the things I would have wanted to see that the government was behind me, i.e. to further strengthen the county office. I know that it was tried to deal with that not too long ago. I spoke to the local secretary of the Interior who actually wanted to help, even though I was then in a position of government, regarding other departments that were not prepared to give up jobs to support the politicians. I'd like to ask, as a result of the rest, whether or not there is a place to strengthen the office and if some county facilities are still in the same place, i.e. where housing is burdensome and of little use.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u244	A respectable president. I have to use this opportunity to correct myself, I mentioned 80 million. K. a contribution to the research of organized crime here in the capital area, which will be introduced in 2019, to be maintained, and to continue. But the local police, on the other hand, has received a substantial increase in financial resources; 180 million will also be paid to increase the number of tourists. The reporters, that's right - we're still inspecting their operations after we split up, after the legislature was separated from the county. The reporters are now on their own. I've stressed it, and I've encouraged the whole Board of Directors to examine whether or not to be reassigned to some project, assigning further tasks to the county. The Agency is by nature the executives of the European Commission in the provinces, and the government can obtain good service through them in a most practical and efficient way for the benefit of citizens, as this is primarily the goal. The increase to them has been from 3.5% to 9.5% and most in the capital area, with the largest overall response in the past. These may not be large sums of money, since the county office is not considered as financiers. They followed the dissociating tails that were cut off, but the tails somehow seem to be strange creatures, apparently growing over and over again. They have been very willing and respectable to the extent possible in their business dealings. It is clear that there will be something to continue. Our house is not suitable. I know the place in the East that needs looking at. We are taking a closer look at the real estates of the state, setting up an acceptable home, both less expensive and more efficient housing, more efficient and more comfortable for politicians and law enforcement as well. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u245	Madam President. I was going to discuss law enforcement at the highest. Minister, it sounds to me that the discussion has gone a long way, so I'll let it go for now, although I may have two very specific questions in the sachet corner that I leave until later. I'd like to start by talking to the highest. Minister on his purpose to set up a specific human rights institution, an independent human rights agency that has, in fact, a central rights institution. The role, as stated in the Government Constitution, to provide counseling to governments in human rights, contributes to legislation and administration in accordance with human rights contracts and to discuss the state of the European Convention on Human Rights. According to the Government Constitution, the bill is being presented in February. So I would like to ask the highest. Ministers to see if any funds are available to help. I can't find a place in the budget where it's said no money. I believe that only the preparatory work of setting up such an institution will cost money. I wondered, " Is there money in the budget? ' If we set up a bill on it in February, when is it estimated that such an institution can begin and that some kind of money is expected in that regard? These very specific questions that I wanted to ask, and I simply ask for curiosity at first that I have a minister here, centered on the fact that I'm supposed to go into a biological information system for the police. I'm asking myself, " What exactly is that? ' And I also know that six police or border guard employees are expected to do a joint drive and a pattern analysis on passengers and ask again, "What is it? [[The president calls.]] What is being searched for, and what need is being fulfilled?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u246	A respectable president. These are significant questions. In terms of the human rights agency presented in my Constitution for a year's remuneration, this has been considered in the Ministry and the management department. There is an international evidence to suggest that Iceland will establish such an organization that would be generally neutral, as neutral as possible, without a natural institution so objective that it will fall from the sky, somehow needing to be financed, than that it will be less objective than for e.g. What we have today, Iceland's Human Rights Office. Actually, I've liked it very much because it's a sort of self-provable stage of human rights organization, such as Amnesty International and others involved in business, but the state has been building up an annual budget and enabling the Agency to be with an employee. The Justice Department has strengthened it, if not more of the Ministry, I think so, e.g. The welfare Department. From my viewpoint, this arrangement is more attractive to me than to a new government agency. But I have been making special observations on how we could respond to the international recommendations we have received. This is done in various ways, e.g. Somewhere else in the North and in the countries around us. In some places the university is assigned to do this, the university's medical institutions. We have one of those activities, too. I thought it was worth at least one Mass. looking at all possibilities in the situation. All I intend to suggest that such an institution be established and at the same time the support of the Iceland Human Rights Office, both by the Ministry of Justice and by other councils, would be reduced to that institution. [[The president calls.]] It will be interesting to discuss this with the council because I think there are many views that would be well worth considering. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u247	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. I assume that there is no amount of money left for this and that it has not been checked out. I am adding that it is not great that the Minister of Justice is pleased with the current maintenance facility, but I put it aside. A private institution or an independent human rights agency should have sufficient resources and resources to function effectively and should not be concerned about whether it receives sufficient funds from the Ministry of Justice this year or not for its work. I didn't get the answers to the specific questions I asked earlier, but I let it be a routine, and I'd rather turn to something else. I'd like to ask about foreign matters. I can see on the budget bill that it's up to us to draw the legal rights of the tribe together about 39 million. K. to meet a permanence requirement. It is not that much, but it does not change the contractions. However, it is in the budget that the number of applications is very uncertain. On page 18. 267 will appear by permission of the President: In terms of both the number and nature of the case, there is an indistinguishment of costs. With rapid speech therapy, the cost of services may be reduced. This is no time for what it will be like. V.E.G. A minister has been rather diligent in exerting pressure on what the judicial authority of that class has called unfounded applications, including unfounded applications. with the argument that by pressing their ability to block the system, as often said, they will be more concerned with those who have real and really justified applications. I ask: How does it rhyme with, getting involved in foreign affairs, closing in with those who are supposed to be not justified, if the evidence was always wrong by pressing that the group of languages should be able to take better care of the others? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Why, then, do we not bring them together in this group of subjects?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u248	A respectable president. As for the National Institute of Human Rights, I would like to mention that no institution is so independent that it is dependent on no one. Of course, if it's to be supported by taxpayers, the budget will come from the legislature, which cannot be avoided. There is no institution so independent, although I hear in increasing numbers calling for it from the institutions, that because they're so important, they need to be independent and you can't see where the money comes from. It's totally contrary to what we're working on in the Justice Department these days with an update on a money-student order and a transparency directive and all that. We need to be able to track the money path, and in the case of public institutions, the path has always been traced to taxpayers through this fine council here. In the case of foreigners, it is true that there is a traditional form of maintenance, and there is nothing that I especially worry about in view of the development of the matter. But I have mentioned that it is often more difficult applications that require more time and thus more cost. I'm not particularly worried about how this has been presented in the budget bill, nor will it be expected that we will have to survive the expense of those who are looking and staying here for a legitimate stay and of the evacuation of those who are staying here in an illegal place. There is no way to escape, for it has been an easy matter for the council and the secretary of finance to arrange for any action to be taken to deal with in the event of an unexpected incident. With regard to the specific questions, why? A senator for action which we are in due to a requirement for action here for the Schengen Cohesion Job, which includes A passenger list and an increase in border guards. There will be an increase to 70 posts during the next year on law enforcement and a large proportion of them on the border, including the U.S. It's a passenger analysis. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u249	V.E.G. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for history, and clear review. There's been a legal hearing here. They have done so recently in the media, and they may always be discussed, natural. It is quite consistent with the fact that claims fly between the discussion, and not just now and many times before. That is true of a number of other grammatical fields that we deal with in a financial bill. I'm just going to come up with this discussion that it's important that when we consider the development of budget management and annual development that we're talking about the same thing when we discuss these factors. If so, it is equally important that we take the same time period. Then, of course, we're beginning to see that, if we take the season from 2010 to 2018 and then the bill we're looking at here, there was a change, for example. in the 2015 Police Department, same year as we agreed on public financial laws where we changed the presentation of litigators and media fields. All this must be kept in mind. That is why we need to have a little effort to take the data in the same form so that we are discussing the same thing when we conclude how this has developed. Besides, it went to the highest level. Ministers well above the changed world in those years, over a hard drug world, and increased pressures to law enforcement in general, as a result of organized crime, etc. I'm going to go back to the question, topmost. Minister. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u250	A respectable president. That's the answer for the highest level. Minister. By the end of that day, however, I heard an answer. The senator said he was going to answer the question in his next answer, but I did not make any particular explanation in this answer. But that's right. A senator says - and I thank you for the opportunity to make a decision that it is important for a man to compare rights or comparable numbers, whether between years or between jobs, because law enforcement, I fired at the time I went back to this party - to dive a little bit deep to figure out what money was spent on law enforcement the last few years when law enforcement was out of the country, e.g. for the county. The figures are available, and that's why I was very concerned with hurting them and presenting them on the Homepage of the Justice Department in a fine overview where people can see total legal fees as they have been in the years before the County Office was removed from the police. It shows that the increase in funds has all become, and much, in the years since 2014. During the years since 2014, there was a significant increase in legal resources. Although you can enjoy good debates, I feel that there is no point in arguing about the fact. Of course, the country's administration is on demand and emphasis at any given time. There will be a special campaign for law enforcement in the wake of an unprecedented increase in tourists. Southland and the capital and the highlands were viewed especially, so all of this depends on the resources and reasons at any given time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u251	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. Of course, it is very good to have a good answer when the question is not there. Thank you so much for that. That's exactly the point when we're taking it together during a certain period of time, and the highest. A minister entered it, and as with a number of other grammatical areas, the year 2013 set out, there will be an actual expansion to most causes. This is true of the financial and financial resources necessary for police services as well. The question was, really, that if we consider a number of annual activities, they have increased considerably according to their numbers, some of which may have been reduced, depending on where the most urgent need is. Investment and financial resources have increased real value. There has been a reversal of the financial status of the police, which gives you the hope that the future of this important subject can be better reached. The question, then, was whether this would be the point of comparison when we have taken everything here to consider the development of a pay factor and a financial balance because there is a huge difference between salary and pay, of course, much less the amount of resources involved. After all, the financial situation should be better, and we should be in a position to better control this party.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u252	A respectable president. Of course, the labors of man or of year vary according to parts of the country. But in the capital area, if I remember correctly, the number of people in the year - to - year worlds has increased something that I saw in particular. I mentioned earlier today that in the light of a changed arrangement or a change of time, it is not always a policeman who is available to investigate a case, there are times when experts need to consult other authorities who care for police and law enforcement matters. All of this is legal security and public security, it's a public service. This may have to be considered in a larger context than just for a number of police officers at work. Yet, as I have mentioned on various projects, so police officers have been increasing. The current financial bill, promising in 2019 that there will be a significant increase in law enforcement, high to 70 persons, has increased 70 standards in law enforcement. A large part of them is on the border watch assignment to meet commitments in our Schengen teamwork. Then it is not just a border guard at Leifs son of Erik's Air Station, but, for example, it is. Also, in the capital area, in Akureyri and where borders need to be maintained, a specific increase in ears marked status values is being observed. There is also an increase in the capital area. This will be discussed by people, and I'm assuming that the contributions we look at are especially due to the growth of tourists. There have been both temporary contributions that have been made, as well as temporary contributions, to meet certain pressures in various districts. [[The president calls.]] It will continue in that course in 2019 C.E.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u253	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for her history in the seminary. We'll talk about the police. Many people have come into that, and I was going to add a little bit before I go to another one. What matters and what is concerned is the law, mainly in the country, in the scattered areas. The police there are often alone, far on their own. The bad news about the situation today is that there are a small number of police in the country out there. Of course, I welcome it with the highest. Minister if she's going to step in with law enforcement, border law enforcement, and the investigation of individual offenses, but what I've called for and what I'm calling on is that more money is put into law enforcement. V.E.G. Secretary says she's going to increase the number of police officers by 70. Is pure growth, or is it taken into account that each year dozens of policemen, especially during the past few years, will stop? The number of police officers reached the highest in years before being about 1.7 or 1.8 police officers per thousand inhabitants. That ratio has been down in the last few decades and has been down to 1.4 last year. So I ask a minister: How many police officers do you think it would be desirable in the years that this legal group will be given to every thousand inhabitants? How many police do you think she should be looking for? Last year there were 1.4 per thousand inhabitants, possibly 1.5 per year. How high does she think she should go in this? There's another question I want to ask her: is the highest. Ministers satisfied with the state of law enforcement in Iceland? Tells you the highest. The minister of a number of police workers is acceptable, in view of the increased number of tourists and the more and more complex work done by the police, especially the increase in international organized crime? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u254	A respectable president. I'm asked if I like the law in Iceland. Yeah, I like the law in Iceland. I also singled out a worldwide study of Gallup, an international survey that Gallup made about the attitude of law enforcement across the world, which country is the safest. Iceland landed in third place in that survey after Singapore, which was in first place and Norway in second place. I believe it gives me a clue to the state of Icelandic law enforcement in international control. I think we should be happy about that. But I worry about what. A senator in charge of law enforcement in the country, since it is true that police there are often alone and must go long distances. I visited the police in the southern part of the country recently, and I studied the circumstances, which is, in fact, the most widely distributed police force in the country. Of course, it is not acceptable for humans to drive alone and react to accidents and events, as humans sometimes have to do there. However, since 2014 there has been a significant increase in the number of educated police officers. 31 policemen were there 2014, but now there are 45, I think, or 49, high to 50. You must not talk as if nothing is doing or talking down the police. There's been a lot of work to do. The police deserve all the credit for what it receives from the common people, and most of the world's politicians are due. Of course, we need to protect her, and she will. I mention again as I told you earlier, people must also be reasonable in terms of law enforcement and the definition of what the police is. How's law enforcement? It has become much larger, and the public demands it, but it's just a police officer on a road or a police officer. Law - enforcement issues have become far more complex than any other solution by increasing the number of police officers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u255	Mr. President. I thank the Minister for the answers. As everybody knows, the last few months and years have been spent in the police department because of the police position. Nobody's missed that. They have claimed that police vehicles are decreasing, police vehicles are decreasing. A police vehicle's driving has been pulled together. Somewhere, I noticed that over a ten - year period, their driving was reduced by 40% and the number of police cars was reduced by 20%. Of course, these classes and police stakeholders need to be discussed because of this situation, to start a conversation, to try to make peace. That's why I'm asking the minister: "Have the highest power." Minister has spoken with a representative of police officers, i.e. The National Police Association, at a meeting, discuss the state of the police, and how it faces police officers? I agree with that word. Minister that this discussion about the police can harm her. We do not want that. Consequences in law enforcement over the past few years have caused police officers to be under great pressure, as well as in a constantly changing world with complex crimes, etc. Then I'll ask the secretary: Has the highest. A minister of some intention to support police officers, as are recent examples of the National Displacement of Fire and Emergency Transporters, and to provide adequate support for them in the process of freezing? I'm also going to ask the highest. Minister: How are we doing with a law enforcement program? We've been waiting for her for a lot of years, I think it's about ten years since they announced she'd be here soon. I was going to ask about the politicians, there have been others, and there have been other things.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u256	A respectable president. I'm just a little worried that a legal hearing will get very peaceful. I thought something was wrong. A senator as if he were on self-control when he said: "Despite the cuts of the past few years. I've said that a little bit here today, and I've pulled a column of columns on the Department of Justice, dm.is, and did not get tired of saying it again and again that it has not been cut down to the police since the Independence Party took over these cases in 2013. It just hasn't been cut. Money sources have not been increased as much in the high lord's day. Then we may have a bearing on whether or not the work is being done. But this is the situation. Any talk about cuts in recent years is unfair, and it is not reasonable to shed the proper light on the state of the police. I'd much rather discuss what we can do, how we can better prioritize this money, get more of each dollar. If one is not going to face up to the increase that has been, it will never be discussed with an intelligent mind. I wanted to make some special corrections. It's true that the police program has been waiting a long time. Actually, I'm glad she waited a long time because it's given police officers all over the country a further chance to give tips. I've responded to these indications, agree with them, and I've changed the law to conform to the sheriff's tip. When I introduce it this fall, I think it will be a document that can lead to effective measurements of law enforcement effectiveness and the results and expectations we have for every dollar we put into law enforcement.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u257	Mr. President. There are some things I would like to mention at the highest. Minister. The first thing I'm doing is being a Schengen team, but I'm very happy to see that a lot of money is put into the important partnership which is exactly a very important link in securing the safety of the citizens of the country and other citizens here. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister if it is not safe to interpret the emphasis that Schengen is a sign of government and supreme design. Her minister to support and care very well for this support in European cooperation. It is now vital that these topics be spoken very clearly, especially in those days, where isolationism and decommissionism seem to be high on the platform many and some of them wash up in Iceland. So I'd like to ask the minister very firmly and directly whether he can't be trusted. The Minister of Justice and the Government will protect the Schengen Corporation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u258	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry on this important cooperation, I agree with him about what we have in the field of Schengen. Too bad, it seems. A senator and the person standing here are interested in this matter, since the hall is empty, but that's fine, then we can have a sincere, intimate conversation about it. It is my position and the government to be in Schengen that is absolutely essential that we be able to secure here law enforcement and security as required today. Not only with border guard partnerships but with international law enforcement cooperation and, as a matter of fact, have also led to widespread international cooperation even on charges. Of course, during the past few years, the challenges that all European countries have faced in security have taken because of unprecedented transport to Europe. Not only refugees or refugees but also economic reasons, people fleeing from economic conditions outside Europe, possibly within Europe as well. People sometimes discuss something, and they argue, hopefully, that, in some way, we had enough opportunity to protect our borders, even though we were not in Schengen and certainly were right, that we could do it. That does not change, however, that we had faced the same challenges and threats as we do today, and it would have had fewer opportunities to deal with them effectively as we have been able to do in Schengen's field. So I will, in any case, protect the Schengen community while it's the way it is, but of course it will change, and we have natural freedom of speech at that point.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u259	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The minister of justice is very happy that she spoke very clearly in these matters. I wondered, " Should I mention religion and the church? ' This was a mere conversation with this discussion. 6.5 billion is spent on the religious party, and that is a huge amount of money. It is obvious, especially if you relate it to a number of very important tasks that must be carried out. I'd like to ask the Minister if he's okay with this order, i.e. That there's so much money going to this lawsuit. I am fully aware that in part it is based on contracts and likes, but contracts can often be changed and the premises of contracts also change. Therefore, I would like to know if any organized arrangements are made within the Ministry to reduce my religious donations. And maybe get an attitude of the highest order. A minister to see if there is room for him to do more in these matters. Because time has not completely expired, I want to mention only the current sexual abuse program. I saw that the government's table today was discussing that matter in some way too. It's said a lot of money. Therefore, I would like to ask if all the suggestions and tips mentioned in the report received several months ago are found in the Ministry's final strategy and in the opinion of what constitutes a complete funding. [[The president calls.]] Were those who are to be in charge of the projects in the program and who agree that what they are to do is made up of the total amount of money? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u260	A respectable president. Yes, in terms of the treatment of sexual fractures in the justice system, it was written after a very extensive consultation by a group that actually consisted of all, some means of treatment of sexual abuse in the justice system. Not only police, courts, and so on the streets, but many more also, the health system and what to say, fighters too. Of course, it was priceless and could not have been accomplished in any way other than receiving the very viewpoint of many. There are many good actions, many measures. What is good about this strategy is that many of them did not necessarily call for much financial resources, and that is what often comes from work like this when men meet together who know happen to offer indications of a change of order that do not cost much. With regard to the factors that really cost, and some of the cost, yes, they put the cost assessment on it, it was the cost of the Ministry of Justice to consult with all those who have to have that cost or account for it. It's supposed to be a big deal, and I haven't yet heard that there's a plan or plan, so it's a good way to go at least so far. As far as the church is concerned, I have declared that I picture the church becoming independent, even more independent than it is. I'd rather see it when it comes to her financing. But I would point out that church projects are, of course, enormous, and many are in the area of social and welfare. So I don't feel that men are able to speak to the church in such a way that these are just religious contributions because they have played a very important role that I'm not sure the majority of the people of the country would want to be without if they were in a difficult situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u261	A respectable president. Here's a budget bill for 2019. It has this financial bill, like surely all the other financial bills that have been approved or discussed here at the Icelandic Council that it is not perfect, but there is a good thing about it. True, there are factors in which we need to do better, and the language recommended here is always a work to be done, and no one will doubt about it. I'm going to take a quick look at some things that are positive on the bill. We have this bill to improve the quality of disability. We're raising payments for parents on maternity vacations. We are adding support to children and children's families. There is an emphasis on building a social home, and there is increased support for jobseekers, and these numbers are all visible in the bill. The total cost to the party under social and equality is increasing to 8.5% between years of age, to carry on this budget bill. Social and equality expenditures increase by 15.6 billion. In the next year as well as in the exception of remuneration and benefits, but the overall increase, if we add remuneration and prices, is 21.4 billion, that is because there are 5.9 billion compensations in the bill. Of course, there is a tremendous increase over the course of years, and I am very happy that we are raising the budget for this legal group from year to year. The main factors that are under there and are being raised are also increasing. 4 billion bucks. increasing funding to improve the quality of disability and to take the first steps, and I reiterate the first steps, in improvements in the social security system. It's 4 billion like I said, but it's also 3.6 billion. who have come to face the growing of elderly and poorer people. There is also an increase in financial support for children and children's families, making it more likely that they will be raising their pensions from 520K. of 600,000. next year. The total cost for this is 1.8 billion. This was one of the government's policies, both raising payments to the maternity floor and extending the birthmark, which is where we have taken a second step, but still have to take the step on the prolongation process. In addition, the cost of obstetrics from an increase in the pension fund is expected to be from 8% to 11.5%, with an estimated 400 million per year. At the same time, this is expected in the bill 200 billion. K. who are new funding to strengthen the position of children and children's families. In addition, more is involved in children and young people because in the next year an increase in donations is expected due to the development of special housing resources for children with severe mental and mental disorders, which are increasing budgets by 150 million. K. next year for that development, as well as 80 million. K. It is devoted to a new supportive home, accompanied by a follow-up for adolescents with substance problems. It is also that under the government's policy, financial contributions are being made to receive refugees. Economic financial assistance to people who have been given international protection and who increase next year in total 400 million are under increasing income reimbursement to rural society. K. ... accordingtoa financial bill. Also, as a result of the government's decision to raise unemployment rates to 90%, contributions to unemployment insurance will be increased by 2.3 billion dollars. The next year, and further contributions to responsible funds will be increased by 200 million in accordance with government declarations in relation to collective agreements signed at the end of February of this year. Sadly, though, forecasting that unemployment will increase slightly next year is also expected to increase the amount of money at or about 1.7 billion per year. On the budget bill. Then there is an increase in housing, an additional 800 million. K., it's for building a social home with institutions where the State has cooperated with rural society, with the labor movement, and with the student movement on the structure of social apartments. As I said before, this is quite an increase, but better if you can do it, and it's extremely important that you also consider a number of structural changes in this category, and it's also being done. I think I might be asked about some of the things that follow, so we're gonna make it wait.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u262	A respectable president. There are important community projects, housing, child protection, and various aspects of the job market, to name just a few. What really looks at the people of the land these days is the issues of young people and their feelings. One young person falls from drugs every week, not just falls, but dies. If this were an influenza epidemic or a volcanic eruption, it would be here on foot and fat. How about a response to that, proper minister? Is a minister in favour of the known causes, and were actually discussed here earlier today, and have proved to be a good minister in the countries around us and a demeaning project spoken extensively by Frú Ragnheiður? Of course, Alpha and Omega in all of this are pre-precautionary and health - related projects. Me and the Icelanders are accustomed to short - term thinking, willing to throw us into great business in most areas. We need to cultivate a long - term view of the welfare system. I still feel like there's a shortage of it in the bill. So I'm asking a minister if this is not a point that needs to be given much more emphasis. There is no change in the fact that young people in Iceland are in a lot of trouble right now and there is no waiting for provisions. In spring, a minister introduced a plan to come up with a plan where individuals who have been long in the system would be helped to adjust to their previous life, even to open it in six weeks. What is the situation of this assignment? The current productions for the topic of disability and the affairs of disabled people are estimated to be 294 billion. K. On the budget bill and up 47 million. K. According to one report, by means of the user - controlled personal assistance, it is a vital project that we agreed on in spring. Does Ministers believe that this is in accordance with the agreement made? Does a minister feel acceptable in view of the high revolution in the poor quality of life and the great expectation of life? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u263	A respectable president. First, I want to say the word with the question. paritaprevir The Guðjón who Brjánsson about the importance of funding is set priorities for young people and children. We're taking a step towards that in the bill, as I said before. We have new 80 million next year to open up special resources in the capital area. We're up 150 million. K. for building up of special facilities for use in children with severe developmental and mental disorders. That's also 200 billion. K. in the bill to strengthen the child's position in general. Thus, it is up to half a billion, a new one from years to more than already. I had a meeting with Child Welfare last week to get information about the treatment options and the other issues involved. I don't know that it's a last-minute work assignment to open up the options I mentioned earlier. It's taken a long time and for that I've answered. I'm sorry and I find it scary, but I have confidence from the Children's Institute that, as the situation is now available, they will not assume that the plan to open up will soon become full - time in the next few days. So I can say that this is going to be a very high priority in the Ministry and in the government and it's on the budget bill. However, when it comes to children, we need to take action toward much more radical changes in the overall welfare system. This work has been initiated by the government and the Ministry, and a parapolitic committee is being started to look at just how we can care for the welfare system so that the children are always in first place. I think it'll take even more discussion. With regard to micro-organization candidates and the affairs of disabled persons, and NPA, I must be allowed to answer them in a later answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u264	Mr. President. V.E.G. During a talk on this site on April 9, a social minister said that there would be about six weeks before the release would be opened. Was it just an illusion? In March 2017, the Ministry of Social Affairs said that half a billion would be spent building a child's treatment home for drug abuse. Nothing's happened. Home has not yet been raised. The last time I checked, I didn't find property. It's a disgrace, chief. Minister. We're dealing with children who are dying. There are no acceptable reasons for not finding weights, if they are correct, for a new treatment home. If we were planning a gas station or a shop, we'd have found a property long ago. There's no mind in men. How long is the worm waiting? Improved disability are and have been the Union conflict. There is a bitter injustice. There's no other way to see in the bill than to see that the population declines, though some steps will be taken to count down, but the paces are short, and they're way too slow. In the discussion of a silly setting, you may also find that at the same time you are considering the so - called work conditions. I ask a minister: Is it really possible to expect a test of performance to be realized in a future year of financial gain? What year does a minister believe that this change has an impact on the quality of theforest and possibly on the individual sectors of a financial bill? The U.S. same-employment law came up for year-end. It has been observed that there is a great need for companies and institutions to take care of the regulations, and there is a short period of time. Are there plans for how that system will be followed? Are government agencies equipped for financial induction? In the United States, there are now some 36,000 immigrants, people from a foreign background who enrich the human life and contribute to the community by means of employment, culture, and art. It is vital that fresh energy be allowed to enjoy its best. This requires that society support, guide and guide the system's mazes. [[The president calls.]] By means of the bill, donations and innovation in serving foreigners and immigrants are poor. We have, though, ideal organizations that are ready but financially lacking. [[The president calls.]] I'm talking about the Civil Republic and the Importer Development Fund. [[The president calls.]] Isn't the Minister going to make it better?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u265	A respectable president. First of the opening of a new treatment home. On the one hand, there is the possibility of opening up resources on the outside of the capital soon and is expected to be funded for that in the budget bill. It's been delayed and answered. I've said that there's no one more sad than the one standing here. With regard to a new home, it is quite clear that we have the same problem as the one to open up in the near future, it is not particularly popular, unfortunately, neither in rural society nor in their inhabitants will disappear where homes will be built. That's what we've wrestled and, in fact, we've wrestled. signed by lawyers and others in charge of the people living in the districts. It grieves that in a society that criticizes us every day that we cannot build such homes at the same time, there is no wish to have one of these in the tuna. That's sad. We greatly add funds to all the aid we have. A senator mentioned. I mentioned earlier that new funds were for child custody in budgets, up to half a billion. That's 4 billion to microbe. That is where we work to establish a workforce. There's a team that's about to be closed in the next few days. It is expected that there will be a bill for the council, but there may be a year and a half of the period of production in the Job Assessment. At the same time, it is assumed that when we introduce the work assessment, and it will be presented here, there will be a review of how funding will be increased to the seminary on the basis of the new thought based on the work programme. It is assumed that, at the same time, the presentation of a new effectiveness assessment will be made of a plan and emphasis on how funding for the seminar will develop over the next two to three years, beyond the 4 billion new ones on the bill. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Sadly, I was unable to answer any other questions. There was a senator. [[The president calls.]] I might be able to do that in my final talk. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u266	V.E.G. President. I'd like to speak to the highest. A minister of two things in which the government in which he resides, and he himself gives in wealth. On the one hand, these are matters of the elderly and of the other. According to this bill, payment for the elderly is raised just as an increase is found in age groups who take the pay of old age. But there is no increase, there is no increase, and there is no increase, nor is there to see, that I didn't expect, reacting to a proposal brought to the budget last year, that the elderly would be able to earn money without their reduced pensions. That would have been a relatively painless operation for a government fund, but it would have mattered significantly to several thousand elderly ones. This would have improved their quality of life. It would have made them more effective. This would have prevented isolation and isolation. However, this suggestion by our Middle Class was called by a roll call. All of the government forces are down, and the Conspiracy sat by. I see this proposal isn't inside the bill and it's the highest. Minister to back up a proposal that will arise from the Central Party on this matter and on the same grounds. I encourage him to appreciate it because this may be the simplest way to do well with much of the elderly and to improve their quality of life and happiness.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u267	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson for this encouragement. The current government has already raised the payout target to 100,000 dollars. I know that suggestion as a matter of fact. A senator witnesses here. But I would like to say two things about this: First, it has been published, the one here, and the prime minister, that we are working on what turns toward disability pensioners, increases in those materials, and the induction of a new system. Like what? A senator himself knew that it was not finished in the committee he was taking the lead in his day and succeeded Pétur Blöndalur. We're going to finish that job, and I've said that and that's why we're going to concentrate now. We, however, are also in a conversation and cooperation with the older citizens' Union on how we can meet the high - paying groups. That work is going on, that conversation is going on, and that job isn't over. But I also say what. A member of the Central Class, a member of the Central Party, has been severely critical of the budget bill because it has a large amount of expenditure in it. I reviewed how funding will increase in the number of languages I represent, and they will increase by an actual increase of 8◯9% next year. Of course, I'm happy if the Central Party has stopped fighting the increase in social issues, as is the way the Chairman spoke here before yesterday, and has joined the rest of us. I'm counting, just like what we're talking about. One senator says that we need to give more money to the social system, but that does not happen with empty foam and shouts, because we will be at the same time looking at system changes and making sure that the funds we put into the system really benefit those with the least amount of income and need it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u268	V.E.G. President. Also, the ideal elderly may not be replaced by outbacks. I'm just going to remind the highest. Ministers that the suggestions made by the Central Party and brought along in the budget of last year were fully financed. There was no expansion, but of course we recommended, and we have suggested that social assistance be increased as far as possible. I was so happy to be the highest. A minister began by answering a question that I did not yet make, which is for himself fine. In fact, he gave her the wrong answer. - And I'd appreciate it if he showed me some attention. For disability, the same is true. There, the government is going to cut off what is called a dollar to a dollar and is very unfair. But the highest. A minister here announces that there is some interview with disability. You're right. You're right. According to a minister, the committee I conducted at the end of the job had come up with a very good background on the quality of the work. You can work very hard on that foundation, and you can work very fast on it. In itself, it is not for anything to wait. That is why I was embarrassed to include in this financial bill or the copy of the copy on page 5. 93 says that it is not to be reinvented or reinvented in order to stimulate people back to work. It is an essential part of human ability assessment, and it must also ensure that there is part - time work to be done in order to reinvest and reinvigorate good people so that they do not close their doors once their hopes have been raised. The government returns less than wealth, since some 200,000 k is combined. contributions to the loss of this bill. It's a shame.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u269	A respectable president. Just a little bit about the income of an older citizen and a micro-energy pension. I may read a chapter on page 19. 126 on this fine budget bill. It says: In the bill, a percentage increase is expected to improve social security, i.e. With social support improvement, sensibilities and disability will be 3.4% starting on January 1, 2019, as well as on January 1. In addition to an increase of 0.5% in prices, Iceland's Habitat projections on the development of index prices are considered. - So there's an increase inside... [[Up front.]] But like I said before what? A senator, we are focusing on what has to do with microenergy pensioners, and we are going to complete a well-being assessment and make it part of the council. I like it. In effect, a senator is now in a circle because of a similar discussion earlier this year. A senator knew so much about the induction of valuation and the fact that it would never be possible to complete that job and bring a bill about it within one year, he said it would be possible. That's what we're gonna say. A senator that you can do it fast and fast, and I know we agree on that, me and the other. Senator. [[Up front.]] However, when such a bill appears, it will be accepted, and I said it in my opening speech. Of course, we will remember at that time of induction, and when the bill is presented, we will expect to be able to strengthen the quality of the work programme, not only with a memory loss, but also with a workforce. How can we build a system of employment in order to increase the number of jobs for those who need it in the process of working properly? All this work will be done together during the induction period. I made it clear earlier, and it is totally clear that the government is focusing on microenergy pensioners, the improvement there, an increase this year by 4 billion on the bill, and more is needed. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] - Yeah, that's what I've said in public. That's what I've said to the microenergy pensioners and other bodies. However, this is to be supported by the assessment of performance at any given time. A senator says that it is possible to do well. That is exactly what the government will do, and that is exactly what it will do. A senator will see that it will be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u270	Madam President. It was interesting, the exchange between the highest. Minister and my good friend, huh? paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson. I may not be totally involved in that discussion, but it's a pleasure to know that it's a smart thing to do when it comes to reevaluating the insurance system. I'm expecting us to be together when the bill shows that there's a good deal of reconciliation and maybe the changes we have to make. I suppose there will be things that we might want to take a closer look at and make adjustments, but we try to give ourselves, and especially the desperate promise that we will upset them. On the other hand, I'm only going to have a place of words at the highest level. A Minister associated with a review of the income tax system and the improvement system. There is, of course, a partnership between the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Health, i.e. Social Affairs, that's what it's like. An adjustment of the child - reform system, of course, is responsible for the highest level of responsibility. Secretary of the budget, to simplify it to an overall review of individual income taxes. But this task comes to the highest level. Secretary of society and housing. I want him to know what his point of view is, how his work aims, and when we can see something in public, so that we can discern what this system is developing. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u271	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator for him resists and to prevent all misunderstandings is the senator I used to answer the previous, my noble friend, the Þorsteinn Sæmundsson, also a nice friend of the man standing here but not only. paritaprevir Kárason Björn's son. For asking why. A senator's review of income tax systems and reform systems is exactly right. According to a senator, there is a work going on between the Ministry of Health or the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Economic Affairs, and the role of the Ministry of Presidency as a review of the benefits and income tax system, with the aim of making better use of those who have less income and less intermediate income. My view is that we need substantial changes in this system, and we need to lighten the burden of those who earn less money, and we should be looking forward to making more money for those who earn more money. This work has made good cooperation with the labor movement, and this was the basis for reviewing collective agreements in the previous part of this year, and it was specifically requested that the labor movement be allowed to arrive at work. I think that's a good thing because of that, I'm saying for the least part, there's also a vision that needs to improve the position of those with less income and less intermediate income. The exact date of this review is no good at this time, but I expect it to occur on either side of the next year and possibly in connection with collective agreements many of which are free, or really all, in a general labour market at the end of this year, at the beginning of the next year on public market.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u272	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister, good answer. I would like to point out that there are, of course, many ways to approach the subject. I've been inclined to look at this: The state funds will have about 186 billion dollars. the income of individual income taxes. Costs or expenses or financial contributions to the social security system and to other conveniences, child support, etc. similar amounts. Then I say, these are 3,350,400 billion that we're looking at, that's, of course, the income side and on the other side of the pay, it's still 350, and it's up to 400 billion. Then I'll say, it must be so that we can edit the income tax system in a way that we can take a lot of things, e.g. of social security systems and the entire improvement system, all child benefits and interest improvements, into the income tax system. I've pointed to, and I'm not the founder of a discussion that you should introduce a staired personality discount, it should be very high, and then it should go down and disappear with some particular income, a million or 1.2 million, or wherever you want it to be. This will lead to a much more efficient system for low-payers. [[The president calls.]] We've also seen that when men are e.g. to increase the personal discount that goes up the stairs is not taking advantage of money that might otherwise be useful in meeting less income. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u273	A respectable president. A lot of interesting things happen today. A senator says about these matters. I keep an eye on them whenever he makes comments about them. I'm not sure we agree fully on every detail, but I think it would be safe too. A senator, because he's looking at the income tax system and these are some radical changes he mentions there, also examining the stepwork system we're carrying and going over the pace system in the North countries, how many steps there are, and what the top law of the community contributes by percent to the income tax system there. I think we could use the income tax system to make more radical changes towards the equation if we were to move further towards the northern countries. Because of what? A senator is so interested in using the income tax system in this situation that we even need to consider together how we can increase the pace so that those in the upper law of society have more than one share in the combination. [[Up front.]] I think it's about the end of the day that what matters most is that those who are in the lower steps of society and even a few families have as much money as possible between their hands to support themselves and their children each month. I got it. I got it. A senator to examine also the Scandinavian model. Then we'll take this discussion more seriously later.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u274	President. I'm not from what you're doing. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason was talking about a fine citizen's salary right here in a pant, or a negative income tax, as Milton Friedman calls it, the same thing. I'm going to ask the secretary a few questions directly. According to a Constitution, it is estimated that a bill for the legislation on recycling and payment due to a lack of ability, or what is called a work-evaluable assessment, will be set up on the program in October. I'd like to ask a minister if there's any results from the work of the Committee that was assigned to discuss the work assessment and, if so, a state of reconciliation for that conclusion. I don't quite understand how a minister will have time to complete the Senate case and will arrange for the council next month if the committee has not produced, which I understand has not been prepared, at least yesterday. Is the bill started? Also, I'd like to ask a secretary for an excommunication of a cent in front of a reduced pensional pensioner, but the requirement to eliminate the impairment is very loud and understandable, since micromasks have had to be treated with discrimination in these chemicals for quite a while because albino pensioners were rid of this calamity in 2016. According to the Social Security Act, cross-interactions to play together the disability benefits of social security and the disability of pensions are to be prevented. Is this where we're going to take these impairments out? If so, how? How much is it going to cost, and where does the funding come from? In chapter 27, which deals with disability and the affairs of disabled persons, there are 4 billion in contributions from social security to improve the cost of disability. What will they be used for? So, finally, I ask, will the minister come to the council's expense analysis and call so that we can understand how much money goes for each operation and thus take an informed view of the budget? I asked the highest. The medical minister of the same question today, in fact, did not get the answers. I'm talking about some cost analysis of the operations being performed. This provides a list of measures under each objective. There is no way to see how much money goes to each operation. [[The president calls.]] It would be very helpful to know what this is all about. Also, I would like to shoot very quickly about a global approach, as action is consistent across the legal field of Ministers. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to hear something from a minister if there's something he's been thinking about when it comes to important issues, such as a two-way problem. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u275	A respectable president. It is clear that there has been a great force in the work of this committee. I think it's safe to say, without me telling myself about what happens there, that people are very close to being on the same page on the basic structure of the system, how the human race is going to work in it, etc. This is a major focus of the bill, so it should be possible to submit this bill in October. Well, it's the course of what it says here. For the funds that come in there, increases in individual groups, interactions, etc., it needs to come together. But I strongly assume there may be more political discussion about this exact aspect than about the structure of the system itself. Then I want to reiterate what I said earlier, that it is assumed that the induction does not occur on January 1. It is expected that we will need time to adapt to the induction of this and in particular get the job drivers and the public system to come into it, prepare the employment agency, prepare the course of the course, the health care system, and all those who need to be involved in it. The 4 billion currently on the bill are expected to be used in order to support the thinking that will exist in the new system. I've already discussed it with the Quantum Community, with the Developmental Help and other bodies, to work out how we're going to take care of these 4 billion as well as what this work is going to be over. I believe, in view of the recent discussions, that it will just be to reduce a dollar to one's degree and to other factors that are worst for those in this group. [[The president calls.]] Then we need more increase. You're absolutely right. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u276	President. I'm happy to hear that if these crazes are smaller than a dollar's insignia, although I believe they'll be taken away completely. Maybe it's a little more expensive. But there is one goal and one action involved in reducing parental income failure to hysteria by raising maximum pay to 600,000 dollars. per month. This is a fine operation that will hopefully enable others to spend an important time with their newborn babies. We now have knowledge of the importance of child development to spend much time with our parents in the first few years, and it is therefore urgent to take action to prolong the birthworm, especially in view of the fact that children of single parents are also allowed to enjoy that extension, i.e. that there is equal justice between the children who have both parents and those who have one parent. Single parents are often those who need the most help. Is this something that a minister intends to consider in the work ahead of prolonging ordinarily? When can you expect the bill of that material? In the housing section, a minister seems to put the most weight on helping people to buy housing while the most vulnerable group of society is the one who cannot buy and who is unable to buy at any time, since rent expenses eat up basic provisions. What, if anything, plans a secretary to do for rent people? Then I wonder at the priorities of the elderly, since two of the six steps are involved in obtaining as many elderly ones as possible in the workforce. So I ask: At what point, when people are working hard for 50 years or more, can people begin to slow down and pursue their interests in peace for government campaigns to continue working hard? I think it's a wonder of priorities. At the end: Does a minister hide an operation to tackle the pay equals of the sex, lifting the women's classes from the low pay table? Clearly, this is not going to be accomplished by the equally paid witness.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u277	A respectable president. If I add the questions I still had, I would assume that I will answer eight questions in 1.50 minutes. so I'm just gonna start right away. [[Take it up to: Start! Go, go, go!]] I'm gonna start with that as a dog. A senator came in here and turned to two problems, basically how a system can work together. I think that, especially to children, we need to make some radical changes. I'm setting up a transverse committee to see how we can break down the mollusks in the carts, especially when it comes to two problems, i.e. where there is a need to obtain services to more than one member of the local system and even within the local community. That job's on. Regarding the rise in payment of the birth reserve, the government has its policy of raising payments and extending birthworm. Today, we are in the second consecutive year, taking steps to raise payment on our maternity vacations. It is clear that the government has not even worked for a year, so I call it a pretty good thing to have achieved one of the two goals. We're going to extend payment to our maternity vacations. It's been three years since this election season. Then we need to examine some other changes in the birthworm system because there are details to consider in this relationship, as well as those that have been aside and that have not developed and developed sufficiently. With regard to the housing situation, we have recently had a very good conversation with both our communities and the labor movement. In a debate here last night, I entered a more radical approach to the situation than we've been seeing. There's not a landing in it yet, but I've been calling for men to think out there outside the box, to be prepared for radical action on a social basis. I expect this conversation with the labor movement that is having, and the rural communities can produce some kind of product. [[The president calls.]] Sadly, some questions remain. I think we'd need more time to finish them because I would so love to answer them all.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u278	Madam President. We'll discuss lawsuits at the highest. Department of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. There's a lot of good in them. I want to keep it as high as I can. In fact, a minister has also made it important that there are more than 4 billion in the case of disability and the affairs of disabled people. Five billion are being improved in the affairs of the elderly. Children's compensation is being increased, their contributions are being increased by about 15%, and so on. It's not finished here at all. It's like the ultimate. The minister came in, we're just getting started. But then I'll let myself pet the highest. Minister on the back, it's going pretty well. There is one group of paintings at the highest. A minister had started talking a little earlier that I'd like to discuss more, i.e. It's the housing business. That's where I feel at least that we could do better. I've been talking for quite a while that we have to start rethinking the concept behind housing support, get up out of these wheeling growth reforms, which are actually an inheritance of the old special policy, which was the only thing that men could think of, and over the purpose of the housing reform system should be to provide people with a roof over their heads, secure housing. It is possible to do more than just pay the interest of banks with interest improvements, which are actually growth improvements, thus making banks possible in some ways to maintain the interest level on these loans.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u279	A respectable president. I'm gonna go straight to the premises and tell them I think we're right next to it. A senator says that we need to approach that party in a way we have not. We have set out well with regard to the national community in this regard. It has started working to set up a Norwegian model for building in the scattered settlements because it has taken place. It is also in the process of forming a tenure in the country on the part of a camp loan fund to use the property there to build up a tenant society, and both of these activities are in a very good cooperation and cooperation with the European Union. With the capital area where the solution to the problem is tremendously urgent, I think it needs to be thought of in far more radical solutions and far beyond what has been done with the goal of building a tenet that is really a failure. We've been taking some experimental steps in it with the general apartment system, but I think we need to get a lot stronger into it. We have recently been looking to where it has been best in the North countries. That has even been true. been in Finland, where Helsinki is the only capital city in the northern countries where housing prices have virtually remained unchanged in recent years. Why is that? This may be because in Helsinki the state allows the government to build a government - owned tenure, not just on land and in scattered areas, but also in the capital itself. Because housing is a welfare matter. It is vital that we think that way. We are now considering how we can promote and expand cooperation with the North countries to learn from them how things are done, but we also need to get our communities with us and to think a little more in this context, perhaps thinking not only from Reykjavík but from neighboring communities around Reykjavík and the capital area. [[The president calls.]] They need radical structure there. [[The president calls.]] The interview is going on with both Icelandic and labor groups. I totally agree with what. A senator on the approach we need to have in that regard. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u280	President wants less of both of them. Councilmen and the highest. Minister should respect the deadline.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u281	Madam President. Now we're talking. You see, we probably have at least some. Eight years, if we no longer, are talking about how we can change our housing system, how we can change housing support, but we have actually taken terrible little steps. That's right, the general apartment system that the current social and equal minister, Eygló Harðardóttir, started was an important step, but better if possible. V.E.G. Minister mentioned even. Part of the community. I think the conversation that needs to be taken up in these matters is exactly between the local society, the labour market party and the Ministry. It's because of my intelligence, the pension funds, but they're not supposed to be in the driver's seat in these materials. I think these parties are much closer, i.e. The communities that are actually responsible for having a safe roof over their heads, must be there, the Ministry of Nature as the Trustee, and the relationship with the local community. That's what we're talking about, in effect, is that our communities can do it completely and have the tools, like the highest level. Minister came in here, to keep apartment guards at least In some ways. They can provide contributions to form weights by means of specific measures. It is very important that this conversation be taken on some wise ground so that, as a minister put it so well before you, it somehow gets out of the box and then starts talking about safe housing. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's not about individual property.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u282	A respectable president. I agree with what. Senator, I think or I would like at least It is hoped that the steps taken at the approval of a generalized law at the General Assembly and the subsequent work may have led to some change of mind, not only in the public but also in the administrative system, how we should approach the premises. In this regard, I think we are now ready to take bigger and more drastic steps in this regard. That's exactly what they've been discussing with them. A senator witnesses, the locals. This has been a conversation with the European Union. I have also had a meeting of directors in Reykjavík and Reykjavík. And at an apartment loan fund as a new housing facility. After the changes adopted at the General Assembly last assembly, the camp loan fund is turning much more into a real housing facility, which is supposed to have an important role in the housing market, not just a loan as it was in its own time. The government is supposed to be able to intervene in these matters, with the goal of connecting these parties and attacking more radical building projects in rented areas than we have seen. The labor movement has expressed a keen interest in such things. I think it'll be the next winter, we'll just see it in debates about collective agreements, one of the big cases that'll be under there in a conversation aside with the real guts how we'll get the noise on the premises here. In recent years, there are many things that we have done well. We've been studying, but we're ready for bigger steps and should prepare to step them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u283	A respectable president. I'm going to go straight to the point and start talking about disability. V.E.G. The minister of welfare speaks of 4 billion who should be joined by the seminar. I can't see that a dollar goes into buying one potato more in a month when it is actually a human poverty trap that is almost impossible for him to get out of. Nothing is really done here in an effort to help. I've previously come up with a solution to this so - called problem that is thought to be due to an increase in scarring. We can reduce the number of micropairs without pushing them to safety, and we can help microorganisms out of a man - made poverty trap without costing four billion, without costing a dollar, but in return we would greatly increase the influx of money. There are data and reports from countries such as Sweden and Hungary rather than the Netherlands. I think it's the Netherlands more if I remember correctly. The Swedes decide to make it an option to go to the job market and work and try to save themselves if possible. This may be the most powerful assessment of employment that we could possibly receive, and it doesn't need to be mentioned, with no advice or anything to do so. All that is to be done is that they try as hard as they possibly can. Many who are unable to do so, and as a result, they have to go back and go back into the system. But others could, and many who were choking under depression and feeling unwell were physically sick. For example, 30% of those in Sweden who tried this way returned to the improvement system, while 70% continued on a full - time trip in the community. When I'm at the highest. Well, Minister of well-being is talking about thinking outside the box, trying to do something that is really new in the situation, but I think it's a reason to look at this thing that we need at least... not to say that a dollar's worth would be a lot better.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u284	A respectable president. I want to agree with what. paritaprevir Inga Sæland Land, we're supposed to think outside the box. This is to do with the change and approach that has been involved in the work assessment of the past year. We are going to implement this new effectiveness assessment, yet with a significantly altered thought and approach in the way we assist people in going to the workforce. We have an increase of 4 billion between the years. The goal is to make good use of that money, so they are making the most of it to encourage people to go to the workforce. Of course, there we look up in front of the crescents. I've already discussed it with both the Quantum Community and the Developmental Help how we take the next steps in it. On the other hand, it is extremely important if we watch the trend and the expected increase in the years ahead among Iceland's microenergy recipients - that is also happening in Sweden because of that. A senator mentioned this - we also need radical changes in how we approach the development of employment for this group, how it works. Today, in Sweden the government is considering making three - sided agreements between the government, the pro-employers, and then the team of micro-energy pensioners because of the lack of professional life. Even if people are given the opportunity to go to the job market, the job life is not ready to accept it. That is one of the things we need to consider in this regard too, how we approach it. That's why it's so important that we finish this job with our professional ability assessment. It's so important that we bring the legislation in here, we finish it, we start the preparatory period, how we help people to participate in the community and go to the job market, because we're all different. We want to be different, and we want to be able to share in the workforce. We need to take these changes at the same time. I don't know why. A senator agrees, but we agree that more money is needed. [[The president calls.]] I'm not gonna deny it, but there's still 4 billion now. That's a step forward, but we need to raise the budget. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u285	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer, but the fact is, I'm not talking about any increase in expenses from government funds. The question was, not whether the individual got a job, but the fact shown by Sweden's reports. These people got a job, they weren't impaired during this period of testing, so that was not the case. So I wind up in the old civilians. We've put up a bill at the people's Tracks and I've suggested that we cancel the pay markets on senior citizens' payrolls. The fact is, according to a report made by a nice man, Haukur Arnþórsson, for an older citizen's Fégla is absolutely clear, and there is doubt that it would benefit in an increased flow of funds into a government fund. These are older people. They do not have many years left in the labour market. They have the chance to tear themselves out of the human poverty trap, but, no, that's not done. That's amazing, considering that it's not gonna cost a dollar. It's not like I'm talking about something that costs billions of dollars to this and the other party. It doesn't cost anything. It simply takes courage to take the step with boldness and courage, think outside the box, step outside the box, and go for it. Finally, I say, let's rebuild the labor base system and try to think large in housing and drop these baby steps because the basis for the entire future of our children, who now suffer very many, is homekeeping, secure housing, not having to move 10, 20 times before they become 12 years old, because they have no place. That's what's at the top. A financial minister said the other day, that there had never been such an account on the mortgage, must have been linked to the fact that more than 10,000 homes dropped into God's house, so that all families are definitely not in debt on account of the mortgage; they cannot even take credit evaluations.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u286	A respectable president. Just the right to understand the discussion of the microenergy pensioners and to emphasize the importance of bringing in the thinking where people are helped to go to the labour market, this strategy is expected to increase by 30% to 2030. It is estimated that if we do not add the funds to the group, we will increase from 41 billion to 90 billion. What's so important is that we create a system to help people go to the job market so that they don't land on disability, so in the future, 2030 is incredibly short, increasing pay to those who really need it, who really can't help but stay on disability. We can't do that when we're growing up so bad in this group. That's why there's something in our system that we need to change. That's what we're doing in a radical way. In terms of senior citizens, the current government has already raised the pay factor to 100,000 dollars. I've said this before in this discussion that we're now focusing on the microenergy pensioners, but we're still looking at the status of the older citizens who have lost their income. It involves cooperation and conversation between government and senior citizens. There is no conclusion, hopefully there will be soon, and especially those with the most poor income will be viewed. With regard to the housing situation, I agree. paritaprevir Inga Sæland, that there we truly need radical changes and a new approach and a new thought in that matter. I'm very open to it and very positive. We'll be together during the revolution there, me and him. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u287	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for review. I'm a little bit of a thought after his presentation, because he sounds like he's making quite a promise here in his sleeve, considering the funds proposed, both in this budget and in the financial program over the next few years. Let's start with the micro-organization system, because a bill is being proclaimed in a thorough month. It is quite clear that changes in the quality of assessment, decommissionment of a dollar for a decrease, as well as the increase in the number being occurring in the system, will cost considerably more than 4 billion on a yearly basis. A minister says that this is to be introduced in a stepwise fashion, but in a financial program, I think that an additional 15 to 1.5 billion will be expected in 2020. I ask it, and I want a clear answer: What is the minister's cost estimate of the procedure he will make? I'm sure it's possible if the bill is at birth. And how will this be financed if we agree in our budget, which is in no way expected? This is an enormously important case, and in the council there is an interpolitian solidarity, I think, about removing a dollar from the damage. Of course, the growth in disability referred to by the minister is a major problem, but much of it is in the negative motivation for the current sector. How important it is, then, that we succeed in doing so! I also look at the same thing about the spending words here on the birthworm system. It is clear that in financial programmes and discussions about them, prolongation was not expected. It's not a financier to prolong ordorfs, but here's the highest figure. Minister again about its extension. I don't see that it's there because you're expected to do about that. A billion more in maternity school during 2020. It is clear that this on its own does nothing to prolong something that would likely cost at least 4 to 5 billion from the current cost. Where is the funding of the promises made by the minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u288	A respectable president. Of course, it is clear, and the way these matters are handled is clearly shown by the civil law. Budgeting is being revised annually, as is budgeted, and it is also clear that at any given time government is working on policy, whether in the Ministry of Social Affairs or in the Ministry of Health or in the Department of Transport. In the course of policy development and in the event of a system change, the government's plans will be automatically reviewed on this basis. This, of course, will be done, and I can help. A senator, because he did not mention it earlier in his speech, adding this list, since there is also a workforce to support management if we are to implement a work programme, some resources at the Work Office. It is clear that we are going to a huge system change and, of course, a system change, like this, we will all consider the plans of the state funds and how this will affect other factors. Better now. That's how the financial system works. Regarding the rise in birthworm and the prolongation of the birth Orc, it is clear in government policy that it exists during the term but I would also like less. A senator claims that this government has not worked for one year yet. She still has three years of this terms. That means three budgets, three financial reviews, and I'm happy, of course, that I saw something there by then. An officer earlier rejoiced that there was an increase in litigation or that, as with other litigation classes, would need to be increased. Of course, when he was critical of the increase in social spending, there is a turning point from what he was doing in a Senate hall just two days ago. This year's progress to real life increases by 8◯9%, and this is a reason for rejoicing. A senator who once served as a social minister has entered the group that celebrates it but does not criticize it as he did two days ago. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u289	Madam President. I asked two simple questions, and I found the answer to neither: What are the costs of the action being proclaimed by a minister there, and where is the funding? Both of these actions are set out in government policy, and this must have been taken into account in a financial program. I can't believe that a minister just made some guess as to what he was going to do during the election season without having any cost analysis behind the policy issues he was offering. I don't see it and it undermines the credibility of a financial programme if the government starts with a clear policy, doesn't cost it in its first financial programme, saying, "It's now this way for reference, and we just update it as needed. That's not acceptable. I don't want to answer the drop-down of a minister about my criticism of an expansion. I have made it very clear that I do not criticize the priorities of the government on welfare or health matters, the same as the former government. I criticize, however, that this will not be the basis for the exposés given here unless there is considerable tax change, tax increases, so we speak clearly. What caught my attention, however, was the highest statement. Ministers on possible tax changes and excellent reflections. paritaprevir Óli Kárason's son on a staired personality discount whose origin is in the consultation field of increased prosperity. I think it would be just a very powerful and good change, especially for micro-energy pensioners, older citizens, for low-payers in the community, where we actually point these support to low income groups. This was one of our policies for the last election and then the last election, and I don't know any better than it was the policy of the forward party and the campaign of the forward party to attack such changes in the income tax system, but a minister actually blew on it and said he was going somewhere else. I'm just asking, isn't the advance team going to stand by their campaign plans for changes in the tax system that were properly implemented in the earlier elections?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u290	A respectable president. Just to take this latter part, I'm glad we've brought a self-enforcement agent with the campaign of the House of forwarders because they can crash. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson is added to the group of middle-class members who are already in this operation here in the conference hall, but it's good to have more help with them, because I've felt that they were a little bit of paying off lately. [[An election pool...]] It's good for them to get strength from sleep. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson. Of course, it is clear that the tax system changes we want to make in, the government, are changes aimed at strengthening lower and lower intermediate groups. We're open to that kind of stuff. That conversation is even. running with the labor movement and the labour market parties because it was one of the statements signed on the first part of the year on the tax system changes. After that, we're working. As it is, the government is working. This should be a cause for rejoicing. I don't know how to explain this to you. Senator. When we move into a system change, it affects various groups of subjects, plus or minus here and there. That's exactly what's going to happen with the work programme, we're stepping up to 4 billion in this budget. It is clear that when a bill enters the council, and it should be. A senator also knows that as an amateur financier, such a bill is taking a financial evaluation, including the Ministry of Presidency. [[What's the cost of change?]] Hv. There is no need for a senator to worry that the bill that enters the council will not be expensive. The strategy it puts into the processes that we have created in the budgets, both in financial programs for five years and in budgeting. Hv. A senator can only wait quietly. It's gonna come. This will be the cost rate. [[Up front.]] Likely, this will take place in the process and in the processes we have already decided. [[The president calls.]] The same is true of financial planning. [[The president calls.]] I don't know how this can be any clearer for what's happened. A senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u291	By answering the questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u292	V.E.G. President. There are three aspects of the environment and resource minister in any way or in any way. The most extensive activity in the 17th field is the work of the media. This is part of Iceland's National Research Programme, which is part of the 6 Ministry as well as the work of Organizational Fund on topic Level 8. The currently discussed budgeted budget has a total budget for the 17th Environment, estimated over 19.5 billion dollars. and increasing over 1.5 billion dollars. has a fixed price law 2018. This corresponds to an increase of 8.8%. Taking into account the impact of estimated 528 million U.S. general pay and prices changes, the increase is more than 2 billion U.S., 11.8%. Substitution of temporary contributions to the topic field is expected to be about 517 million. c., of whom 325 million are due to a temporary investment proposal to build a national guest room, 147 million. K. Based on the report on the report on climate assessments, a total of 4,4.8 million will be held at the end of this year. K. temporary funding to a plant of nature. There will be measures to reduce expenses in the topic field by 126 million. K. in accordance with the aims of a current financial programme, called a maintenance program. A total of 850 million dollars. K. I'd like to draw attention to the fact that in this bill there is a miscalculation that speaks of gaining weight gains due to changes in the estimated states. This number should be 782.2 million. K. Because of lack of prior budget, but the increase does not affect government funds. Thus, the actual growth of this team is 67.9 billion. K. The budget range within the topic range is expected to increase by 1,320 billion. K. and is given mainly in new and increasing climate projects, for the maintenance of infrastructure in natural protection areas and for land protection. This focus reflects the challenges we face in climate and nature protection. Earlier this week, the first version of a climate-related operation program was introduced. As we have seen from this, 6.8 billion will be planned. in the next five years for special action on climate. In all, 600 million are expected. K. will be spent on this project immediately next year, with some 255 billion. K. to reduce greenhouse gas emissions of 250 million. K. to carbon-binding engineering and 60 million. K. In innovation through a special climate fund. At the same time, about 35 million are expected. K. of these 600 due to the activities of the climate Council, the development of the Commission and the implementation of the European Commission directive. As more people than I have noted, it is not a question of whether we should take action in climate change. Rather, we are obliged to do so, both with the international community, as well as with future generations. V.E.G. President. I've been pretending that the natural nature of Iceland is our yellow egg. We need to protect and respect it, as well as make sure that we do not walk in its good things. The government's financial program assumes 7.5 billion dollars. will be protected by action for the protection of nature over the next five years. This financial bill suggests a value of 0.5 billion dollars. will be spent next year on these important projects and 200 billion. K. ... toTrue. Of these 0.5 billion, 350 million are expected to be built up for the protection of nature and cultural memory. Will be distributed on the basis of national programme and project plan 2018•2020, published in March 2000, updated with regard to this increase in budget. That will mean more than a billion bucks. will take place on this urgent assignment, where the Council has previously ensured 660 million. K. to the project. It is then planned to promote research and monitoring in environmental protection areas with 80 billion. K. The sheep and the work of Lake Bay Park, which decks about 15% of the country, were strengthened by 40 billion. K. contributions to face increased pressures on the environment because of tourists. Nature protection environments will be improved by 200 billion. K. contribution due to a national protection, both pan-European and seasonal, next year. I also want to see that in 2020 300 million are expected. K. It is added each year for a national defence, as part of a 7.5 billion dollars. a contribution to increasing natural protection projects in order to ensure the protection of nature and its sustainable use.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u293	Madam President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Environment Minister for his review of the topics he belongs to. I'd also like to wish for the highest. Ministers to the happiness of progressive climate proposals. It was a pleasure to observe the presentation of the seven Ministers of the programs that the government has agreed on. I believe it. I believe it. Environment Ministers have borne the brunt of this work. Now we're going to see how it all goes together, what it's gonna be like when the plan and debates are over, but the plan is ambitious, and it's fine. So I congratulate him because climates are the biggest issues in modern politics, and there is a strong need for action. So I hope that the end of this plan will come true. There is one thing and another in the scheme as well as in the budget that I pause only because there is, of course, an increase in financial contributions to the seminary, but, of course, there are not considerable sums of money. The climate changes, however, appear each day to us with such fear - inspiring events worldwide that we must respond firmly. I must say, now is the time to run away, that I am much worried about emissions. I don't feel that I'm being taken by sufficient force on emissions from private vehicles in Iceland, so I'd like to ask the highest possible question. Environment Minister, why not look more closely at the development of public transport in Iceland. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Although he is certainly not a travel minister, you wonder if a minister is not concerned about the pollution of private cars in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u294	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the introduction and for speaking beautifully of a new climate operation program, which is a natural common project for all of us. I'm glad to hear the Senator's words. If we just compare the funding, because that's why. A senator entered it, in the last three years it has been about 750 million. K. in a special climate application program that is now ending at the end of this year, while we are talking about 6.8 billion in the next five years. So there is considerable increase that, of course, I am very pleased to see. What a question. The senator turned to the disposal of private cars. Yeah, I'm really worried about that. I'm worried about a lot of things, but it's just one of them. Public transportation needs to be more emphasised, making it more useful to us, whether riding bicycles or walking or taking bus, but public transports that are fueled environmental fossil fuels need also be made. There are suggestions from a staff of financial ministers to attack indiscriminately for buying and importing such automobiles, such as these larger cars. I agree with that. A senator that this is a very important point; for example, a large part of the plan also goes out to turn the private car into another type of car, using technology, by electricalization of transportation, so that those who use the private car that so many do have the opportunity to replace it with an environmentally safe vehicle.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u295	Madam President. Thank you very much. Environment Minister for the answer. Of course, it's a good price to go into energy exchange, turn the steaming private car into something environmentally friendly, but it's really something that we have, in fact, a terrible public transportation. However, if we are simply going to turn a corrupt private car into a small environmental car, we have the position that somehow we are always stretching on all transportation and not thinking about getting people between us. It is a good price to place extra funds in forestry, to place in agriculture, and to provide a variety of nature protections, but I wondered if we need to look at this leading threat that is pollution, this release. Then I just ask, " Won't we have to do better there? ' Could it be that money can be used there or that it can simply come together with other advisers who take those classes in the government and try to push some kind of revolution in the coming of its release?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u296	V.E.G. President. I agree with what. A senator's main mission is to reduce emissions. I can see it so clearly that it is a major project, to reduce emissions as much as possible, as technology allows, perhaps. When it is completed, we need to continue to reduce the excess levels of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere, and land transplants and forestry are an effective means of doing so. The emphasis on the role of the Action Programme is, in the year 2040, more than anything else is involved. It is important to start right away because of the low binding curve during the early years, it becomes more and more as the forest or land collects more carbon into both soil and vegetation itself. Then there is the natural recovery of the wetlands, which includes shoveling in a ditch, perhaps putting a stopper in a tub, leaking the tub, and losing emissions, but by shoveling in the canals, we put the stopper in and prevent the amount of emissions from being achieved. When we talk about carbon binding, we usually submerged wetlands, even though doing so may not be quite right. But there is also much work to do when we are thinking about the climate as a whole.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u297	Madam President. I'd like to step in here only with the carbon bill, which is a lot of money. The cost is estimated to be 5.9 billion in 2019 C.E., an increase from year to year of about 550 million. These are the growing tax returns to the public car owner, especially those living in the country area, where the use of electric vehicles is very limited. Not to be overlooked is the fact that not everyone can afford to buy an electric vehicle and that they are not suitable for all. Pays the worst price to pay on the income - stricken group that cannot afford to obtain a less released car. The government is going to put 6.8 billion in carbon binding during the terms of the election. It's a lot of money, and it's as good as it's gonna be. V.E.G. Environment Minister has acknowledged that the results of the carbon account are difficult to measure. This was shown in the reply of the minister of the last legislature to an inquiry from which. paritaprevir Oleaf the Ólafur of Ísleifsson. Then it is Kate, the latest news about the fire station is very interesting. New research shows that it releases huge amounts of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere, about 20 kilotons a day. On a yearly basis, it's more than all of Iceland's emissions combined if I understand the right thing. It's just nobody knew and nobody knows how long it's been going on. This simply shows that these carbon equations are more and less unpredicted and, while doing so, the public cannot be taxed as it is done. The position of these cases is lacking in all perspective. So I want to ask the highest. Environment Minister: Is this payment of the public preconceived in the face of the uncertainty of the results, the measurements, and the rest of the reports we have received?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u298	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the deposit. Thus, carbon costs are primarily intended to try to change our habits and to encourage individuals and other persons to get more involved in environmental practices. What I'd like to say about discharges that come from natural processes, such as at the time. A senator mentioned here about Kate may not have much to do with the government's carbon balance operations simply because there will be emissions of greenhouse gases from very many natural processes that we can't really control so easily, as a means to understand. The equations, or the carbon balance, that we are taking to account for the factors that have a release from man himself to do. There may be a difference. I think the carbon bill is very important to encourage changing ways when it comes to the way we use it. But I can agree with that with what. It is important to improve research on exactly what it will bring, and this is true of many other measures. It is not impossible to do all of this, but it is difficult, and of course it is considered.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u299	V.E.G. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for a fine review of his language field, and I want to say right away that I'm celebrating much emphasis on growing land control and an increased protection in mass tourist areas. I'm also glad that they're going to be building on peaceful territory, I like it very much. However, there is one point that I have stayed for, and it is about emissions and binding. Sadly, in the last month, we lost one of the largest greenhouses we owned, Barri of the Egls, which had long been fighting in banks and finally surrendered. I'm sure it would have been useful now when we're going to make a gangrupt in a carbon bond. There's another thing that caught my attention, the government's declaration that might be called unwinded Iceland 2030, that people are putting so much emphasis on taking out emissions, which is 4% of total emissions. I would also have wanted to see that the government put real power in the idea that public transportation would be eco-efficiency. I'm calling attention to the fact that I don't think there's one bus in Iceland that's got such a contraption, i.e. both electricity and diesel, though very common in many parts of the world. It's the same with group vans. The campaign against the private car that will appear here and in particular take the bites of those who live far away from Reykjavík is not sound to me, and I think that people should have been more determined to take advantage of their emissions by cutting down in a ditch and turning to public transportation with full force.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u300	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the deposit. It is now that considering the direct commitment between Iceland and the Paris Convention, they take to heart the main factors such as road transport, marine soil, agriculture, waste, and part of industry. Oil is about 60% of Iceland's total debt or oil emissions. That oil comes mostly from road transports, about 60% of the oil use is in road transport. That's why the roads are so important. That's why it's so important to deal with them. There's Iceland's greatest chance to live up to its commitments to the Paris Convention. That's a fact we're working on. Regarding the new registration of diesel and fuel cars in the year 2030, which are proposed to be forbidden, many other nations are being followed. Norway targets 2025, France, and Britain. This is a clear message, in fact, to both manufacturers, who are not in Iceland but are abroad, and immigrants, that at that point new gas and diesel cars will not be registered. However, there will be a way to buy and sell those already available. Regarding electrical buses or other vehicles such as these, there are some committees of finance minister's proposals for changing the tax environment of fuel from cars to the idea that indiscriminates will happen to environmental buses. I hope that in the next few years, we'll see it coming in. So there is certainly a lot of plans to go to the recovery of wetlands.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u301	Madam President. Thank you very much. Environment Minister for the indentation. There are two things I would like to have with him. In my first opponent, I'd like to focus on the ambitious, government action programme, that's 6.8 billion going over the next five years. I've been a little busy with it, I'll admit, looking at binding, not just emissions, but what results we can achieve in binding; changing land use, recovery of wetlands where it applies, and forestry. I feel as if we are in some way missing the opportunity by not integrating in the policy agenda of action when it comes to the binding and policy of agriculture and farming agreements. I had a language place earlier today at the highest. Marine and agricultural ministers and thereafter. I was wondering how those two the highest ones are. Ministers will then try to integrate this. That's a huge deal. This is not only a matter of environmental concern, but it is not just a matter of achieving our goals in climate matters; it is also the question that we can take advantage of the opportunity to build up and strengthen our country's population. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I feel like we're missing our chance.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u302	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for the deposit. I think we share very similar views when it comes to these matters. I think it's very important to integrate agriculture policy and climate policy. It is stated in the Action Programme that farmers should be cooperated with and that sheepfolds are specifically referred to, as it is shown in the Treaty that this work is to be done. At the top. Seafood and agricultural ministers started work sometime earlier this year, aiming to establish ideas and suggestions on how to approach the target of sheep's farmers to a level of carbon. We are expected to receive them in our homes at the October/November monthly, and we want to build on them a foundation of action in that direction. I'm referring to this work as such, but I think we share that vision, me and the highest. Minister and minister. A senator, that these two factors need to be cooperated. I agree that there is great opportunity for farmers to become more permanent residents in many parts of the country, if we can call it that. I look forward to sharing some ideas on this subject later, but I'm going to let it be now.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u303	Madam President. I appreciate the minister's excellent answers. I am excited and will participate in the discussion when the time comes and the suggestions are presented. True, it has caused me a little bit of heartache that when we are reaching and entering that goal with the European Union, we did not really weigh anything when we try to reach our goals. It is not too late to make sure that it is. You see, there are economic benefits of going through these in many ways. Let us begin to see only transport energy exchange or, in fact, the need for energy for us Icelanders in the decades to come. A few days ago, a new energy forecast was published, and Iceland's energy demand is predicted to increase by 80% until 2050. I'm told it's in the value of the three carburettors. Then I ask the highest. Minister: How can he see to it that we can meet that need? It is clear that there have been significant differences, e.g. how we use the fallen waters and where we should activate, or heads, whether to activate. There are preparations for, for example. for activation of the lower part of the Tubal wound, which is transducible. There are also disagreements on the IRD, etc. We'll talk about climate and the fact that we're going to achieve high targets and that's what I'll do. We look forward to a tremendous increase in energy demand, and we must immediately answer how we are going to meet it if we are to stick to pure energy. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u304	V.E.G. President. It is true that a recent projection of the electrical projector reached the year 2050. In terms of the demand for electricity over the next 30 years, it has to be added to the 464 megawatts. When we answer the question, How can we meet that need? First, if we look at the current New Order Framework program adopted at the General Assembly in 2013, it is at least one of the following: double the electrical need. While an energy efficiency field is involved, this does not necessarily mean that the activation will occur, but it does give us some indication of the quantity of the above. I would also like to point out that this summer's opening and setting up, about 100 megawatts, which is nearly a quarter of what is mentioned, to provide an example of magnitude. We should not forget, too, that we are looking to the next 30 years. There may be advances in technology at the time, and there may be benefits to energy efficiency, which we may not trust as much today. It may well be that in the next 30 years, there will be a release of energy without our knowing exactly what it is today. I'm not overly worried about the energy exchange in transport when it comes to it. When we talk about the electrical vehicle problem, it is a small number of users that come gradually into the system, but surely a projection of energy forecasters is needed to guide the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u305	A respectable president. I'm going to be a little lightheaded, and I'm gonna be in a bigger context, too. Here is a recent report: Black oil, which is the most efficient, cheapest oil - looking, but not environmental - is a crime ship that has ever been used. If we're going to reduce carbon emissions, why aren't we more focused on this problem than maybe the car of the people without me going into a fight for the private car or something like that? To be small, it is said in the budget that the rise in carbon costs leads to about 5% increase in index price. That doesn't sound like much, $1 billion on the mortgage, 15,000 bucks. in 30 million. K. A loan a year, but it's some money. More important, those who do not use vehicles are also affected by the rise. has developed a lifeless life - style. That's because we're in this awesome inflation economy, which is so fun or so fun. We're taking off the discounts of rental cars, but this is likely to result in more parking on older cars at the cost of the economy, new cars getting more expensive. I'm a little bit light on this, but then we're actually pushing them towards more contaminated cars, costably. I'm asking if it would be better, equal or more efficient to just go straight to more of the electric cars so that they're available for those people using carbon right now. We want to get the carbon out without necessarily affecting those who live a carless life - style.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u306	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the deposit. It's always very nice to talk to you. A member of Parliament here, he asks questions that many people do not. In fact, the emissions of greenhouse gases derived from black oil are not our biggest problem. Actually, there are other problems with the black oil and with more quality of life. But these things work together, as is so often the case in the environment and especially when it comes to climate and air quality, i.e. that it goes together. As for the rentals, I believe that they need to be pressured into using environmental vehicles. The fact is, the new registration of electrical vehicles and other environmentalized cars at rentals is about 1%, while there are 20% in the public market. This is a subject that we need to deal with by means of travel. In the Ministry, we have had discussions with the tourism business about how we can try to cope. There are some bottlenecks in the system, e.g. In Leifs station and several tourist areas across the country. By setting up funding for increased infrastructure, we are certainly looking to this as one of those factors. So I think it's a principle, when we start looking at how to split the budget accurately down below the inside, to deal with it. The import of cars is also a big part of today's market cars are being retailed when they return to the market.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u307	Madam President. As men may be aware, I didn't realize that I was on the rosary, but I'm glad I got to come up here. Thank you very much. The secretary of the environment for his contribution in saving this country, protecting it from the beautiful, precious and unique land we possess. I don't really have much more to say. I welcome the news of the day that proposals for the peaceful waters of Hólm wound have been issued for review, but the three areas are all of the Preservation Programme adopted by 2013. I appreciate that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u308	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator is very fond of warm words and knows that it is with us on this journey that is not only related to the climate in which it entered but also to the environment. I agree with that. What a joy it was to be able to report today that it is beginning to advertise proposals for a peace-telling area of a reservation, including three areas and more along the way! I'm just looking forward to reporting more territories later.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u309	A respectable president. First, I'd like to welcome the additional contributions estimated to the environment at the budgets of 2019 and the crucial step of the first implementation of a climate change strategy. It is important that we achieve commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, but I strongly agree with what is said in the programme, that our goals in climate change should not be limited to that. Hence, procedures to bind carbon are equally important. It is important to coordinate these actions with other environmental objectives and thus view our obligation to the world and future generations to protect vegetation and soil and to bind carbon as a unit. As a result, I want to carry on with it as long as possible. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason spoke. Now the forest industry and land transplant have been cooperating with farmers in their assignments for years, and I would like to ask the highest level of questions. Ministers on how the work is going to coordinate new and older goals in this work and whether there are any fundamental changes on the framework of cooperation, whether or not we expect such to be. Also, I would like to highlight what is stated in the research and monitoring programme, the basic knowledge of the pathways behind the binding process. I'm asking the highest. Minister if registration of land and culture is sufficiently targeted. Are we listed in many databases, can we simplify that work, making it more available to all who come to it?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u310	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for this very much. I'll take my whole mind off with what's wrong. A senator when discussing the need to coordinate carbon binding objectives from climate targets with biological diversity goals and just aims to expand the land's vegetation. This is of utmost importance, and it is the growing integration in foreign fields, in the interests of three major international agreements, the Convention on Biodiversity, the Eastern Convention, and the Climate Convention. For the work ahead of us, we can tell work to shape proposals for land healing, foresting, and recovery of wetlands, I have already started with the Forest and Landing. I have assigned them the task of implementing plans to restore wetlands, how to achieve greater success in stopping soil erosion, a natural large and massive project to this day, so that we do not lose resources and fertility and carbon to the atmosphere to a greater extent than necessary, the recovery of birch forests and the wides and the production of new forestes. There are emphasises I have put in mind, and that is with these other goals in mind, such as the question. The senator pointed to the beginning of his case. For research and monitoring, because of the increased emphasis on carbon binding, we are able to improve the quality of land healing and forestry in both documenting and covering less well - known factors, i.e. with respect to e.g. The wetlands, while we know better how the carbon book is designed for agriculture and forestry.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u311	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. I'd like to change the gear, but before I do, I'd really like to ask a minister to continue the answer to the report on information and just ask: Is Land transplant and Forest using the same database to document the projects that they institutions are responsible for? Is it integrated with farmers' databases? I don't know the name of all this, but I want to know about it. Then I'd like to change my mind and talk about defenses against nature, work on surface treasure. It is shown in the financial bill that, in fact, the financial resources in this field are in place between the years and I believe that it in itself is important, but I would also like to prove that this is a very important case group and while the estimated project is unappreciative that falls under the surface of a flood, it is important to continue steadily. It is reported that two rural areas would start a project in 2019, western, and Far Away. So I would like to ask, Which assignment will be involved? Then I'd like to include in a little discussion about the coastal zone structure. As noted, June's Coastal Organization bill was adopted, and the budget bill says that preparation for the coastal region for the Eastern and West will be initiated. In fact, I have to view this as a work in the construction of the organization that is being carried out in 2019 C.E. But I'd like to ask the minister what the preparations will do because he's expected to be in charge right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u312	V.E.G. President. In terms of the databases, I'm not completely clear about that 100%, but I know that the land transplants and the Swamps are using their own carbon textbooks to measure both surfaces and underground components that amount of carbon that is bound but whether they are completely compatible, I don't know well enough, we can find out that. I don't think it's particularly compatible with the other factors. The senator mentioned, but perhaps the person here doesn't understand the question quite 100%, so they say exactly what it is. With regard to the marine and coastal work, or marine and coastal planning, I immediately called in June after the nominees of the regional council to work with the help of the Agency and they're coming to our homes, so we're heading for this work to begin in the fall. But how long she'll take is a little depends on how well she's doing and how much money is in this, but my mind is about to be able to back it up. For nature's sake, I completely share that opinion. That this is a very important matter and the next year's project will begin at Ness shop, and the project will begin under the Undergrounds. Then the Patrecks'work is designed to begin next year, with original observations in several places, in the Valley of Avengers, at Patrecks'farts, and in Bilddal. The work continues, but it naturally depends on the financial resources available. And that's it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u313	Madam President. First, I want to thank you for this opportunity to exchange opinions at the highest level. Environment Minister. I'm going to start by discussing the implementation of climate-related measures until the next 12 years and starting with marked C, which is called the Anticarbon grip and improved land use. I'm especially concerned with several factors there, such as forestry and the expansion of newforests for carbon binding, land healing, a campaign in the recovery of wetlands, cooperation with sheep farmers - these include 18, 19, 21 and 22. I don't know what numbers could be the basis for carbon binding programmes or the recovery of wetlands, at least they have not been published, so the evidence is conclusive. But I would like to point out that in the forest industry, reliable numbers are available. I'd like to get the highest opinion. A minister of this. Have governments established goals on how to exchange the individual carbon - binding activities mentioned above and for improved land use, the aims of what individual actions should be available for carbon binding and for the cost of each ton of carbon in each of the measures listed above? I realize that the analysis needs to be improved. In fact, the plan of action is to add a major analysis of success and cost to most of the measures. But I'd still like to point out that these numbers are already available in the forestry industry.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u314	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator very much for this suggestion. Indeed, the senator notes that in forestry we have considerable numbers when it comes to the carbon account. If we looked back 20 years or even further, the forestry was at the point where these figures did not exist. In recent years, however, the work has been very effective. In terms of land healing, there are also reliable numbers, since land healing has been working on these issues for a very long time. It is especially true when it comes to the release of wetlands and the effects of a return to a ditch where the knowledge is less. However, it is in a place where there is no evidence but that it is very similar to what happens at similar latitudes, in similar ecosystems, or similar types of wetlands. Therefore, it is quite clear that measures made through the recovery of wetlands are making us effective in preventing emissions; there is no debate about it. On the other hand, just trust in this scientific foundation is the means by which capital is established. Is it really good? This is done both for forestry, for land healing, and for the recovery of wetlands. As for the exchange of funds, I mentioned earlier that I have hidden my land healing and the Forest Being to bring a plan to me in all these sectors with suggestions on what this will look like. Then we can better figure out what different measures can do. Like I said in answer to what. paritaprevir Sævarsdóttir Saevarsdótir'sneaks are considering a number of goals in this carbon binding, which also involves biodiversity and halting desertification.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u315	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for this fine answer. It is not, nor will it be said that there must be the most reasonable way to use the public money; that is what I'm trying to get out here and point out. In view of the use of public funds, we must take the most important possible route to the future. V.E.G. The minister mentioned it earlier to restore birchs. All right. I'm here with an article on the carbon binding of tree species. Birki was not referred to as birchs - perhaps attaching 2.73/4 tons per year in a hectare, enamels 4,63/4,9, sitkagras, from 6◯10, and arabapus, from 81⁄23 tons a year in a hectare. These numbers may be identified. Will a great deal of money begin to be restored? I'm just giving it a tip like that. It's just a victory place to grow a forest, both the crops, the gauze, the raw material that comes, a work that will create for the long future. I'm gonna use my time here in the last second to ask what's to the highest. Environment Minister on air pollution prevention For the legal environment: when to adopt monitoring comparable to that of abroad regarding pollution, the rate at which to use e.g. to change or rest a place? I also ask about counter-important measures on genetic pollution from these heifers. It's known that a fish escapes. I'm asking if there's any law on how to counteract this, e.g. to get this fish back. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u316	V.E.G. President. It is therefore important to answer that the extent of commitment to carbon - related action is critical, but it also counts that we engage in a variety of activities that can take place in many parts of the country and perhaps especially in farmers, both in building up a forest resource but also in building up the growing resources in general. I would also like to point out that we need, as well as clearly indicated in a question of question. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir's Alices daughter, to look at more goals than just how much we add, we also need to look at the goals of biodiversity and the goals of stopping vegetation. We are here working with a variety of goals. I have full confidence in the institutions that know about this, the health of the land and the wooding industry, to offer reasonable suggestions in this regard. In the case of marine farms, it is my opinion that we need to look to see how we can let this trade grow in our country without worrying about the possibility of genetic contamination in the wild salmon of Iceland. That means that we need to look ahead, look 10 to 15 years in advance, and look ahead to the future, and look for ways in which we can get out of the system we have today and in a system that is either on land or where it is safe, where it is out in the ocean, that all such pollutions are the best, whether it is shut down or so designed to prevent release, and where it will be used from these sources simply as an appetizer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u317	Mr. President. First, I'd like to commend the highest. Minister and government for the presentation of climate plans that seem to be at first glance very ambitious and good plans for real measures to reduce emissions. Of course, it is a pleasure to see that the government is going to put this matter in its foregrounds. We hope most of us can agree on this in this hall that it is a tremendous task, not just here, but all over the world. I would also like to commend the highest. Minister for the funding of this strategy in the government budget and the next year's budget, as it seems to me that it is a small miscommunication in the plans of a number of other Ministers. Is this, of course, sad to say that when we are stressing the problem of government planning that ministers are presenting measures or plans that are not found anywhere in cost? So this is not to be distributed. It is, of course, a pleasure to see. What I do stumble about, however, is just this tremendous emphasis on counter measures. While the government's plans are a major burden to man, wetlands, which can be an excellent project, are apparently linked with considerable uncertainty about how at first they will be brought to book and each accounting for our climate development. Perhaps it would be nice if a minister might be able to clarify a little more clearly whether such uncertainty has diminished. It has been said that there is considerable scientific uncertainty behind this too, as well as how the European Union will treat these measures in individual climate books. And more often, when it comes to planning to reduce emissions, such as. The carbon bill. [[The president calls.]] There may be two things I pause at: Is there support from the declarations of various members of the government working together on the carbon account, is there support for the rise there planned? [[The president calls.]] Would it not really be necessary to go further to create enough economic motivation to reduce emissions? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u318	President wants to ask why. Councilmen respecting deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u319	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson for that fancy introductory scheme. I'm kind of embarrassed when he scurrys me so much, but thank you. It is true that, considering the exchange of funds in the climate management programme, the emphasis is on carbon binding more than on the other measures. There are a lot of places in these matters, I think, the need for funding, but the main thing is, and I want to make it very clear that first we try to reduce what we can get as much as technology allows us to do, so we finish the case, as it were, by attacking the volume measures. In 2040, the government has set the goal of a government covenant to obtain a noncarbonization. It is extremely important that the binding that will always take place immediately, because the curve, the time curve, is in a way that minimises first and then increases as time goes by, so most of it goes out at some point. That's why we're stressing this. I have said, however, that it is not in the flesh to rule out the need for a change of emphasis on the time the plan has been going on which the budget is going exactly. We have to look to be flexible about it, that is, basically, the principle of a plan like this. Of course, with regard to carbon pay, the changes it proclaims are the same as those in a financial program that, of course, supports the members of the administrations. Whether it should be more, I can probably say I'm definitely on the side that would want to be, but there's at least for now the result in the position of the line set down by it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u320	I hope, Mr. President, I don't have the highest order. Minister when I commend him again for answering the questions I asked. There is also a pleasant new development in this time of question. I wonder a little when it comes to what might be called, we can debate the very little, some particularly here, i.e. whether it is considered positive or negative when using taxation, i.e. This fundamental point is that the city that is polluted, when we look at the goal of turning to the import of cars powered fossil fuels 2030 by ban, which I may not particularly like myself. Has the government made an estimate of the carbon spending plans? Whether they will alone, with e.g. the subsidies or the appeals to eco-friendly cars, enough to achieve this target without a ban for 2030 i.e. that the economic gain of an eco-friend was simply high enough to screw more and less money for new automobiles powered fossil fuels. I think that would be the best way of ensuring the energy exchange in transportation, not that the plans or the economic incentives that we originally set for ourselves are ambitious and that after some time, the ban is needed, but that this is more self-employed. Then, finally, what I miss most of all, especially when it comes to the financial bill, as well as a financial plan, there are plans for a city line. It's quite poor coverage, if any indeed, in both of these reports in its interest. I'm waiting for the highest. Minister to inform me a little more about what the focus of the energy change programme will be and to reduce emissions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u321	V.E.G. President. I was going to answer one question why. The senator from his first speech will do so in this manner regarding uncertainty as to how the carbon binding is made. Science is the subject of this process between the year and the year. It is true that we may know less about the recovery of wetlands than in the others, but at least enough so that we are confident that operations in terms of returning wetlands are clearly effective. Regarding the European Union and the way the carbon binding would be treated, it is stated in the Action Programme that it is likely to be in the Paris complex that would be the most likely to occur. In terms of the estimate of the carbon account plus the inquisitions of electric cars against bans, it has not been precisely defined. This goal of banning new registrations, I make clear that there are new registrations on the 2030 gas and diesel cars, is presented to give clear messages that at that time we simply need to be at the point where it is no longer acceptable to engage in such operations. If we look at developments that have been occurring, such as Even in 2025, electric vehicles are likely to become competitive at the price of regular fuel cars. Then I think the ball will go fast. I may be so optimistic, but I think this case is going to take less time than we ever thought. I have to owe the city line. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u322	Mr. President. First, we should thank the perfunctory and excellent discussions that have been here all day. Of course, if we look at this great book, 448 pages, many are positive and interesting, and I do not. When it comes to climate issues, I feel that this is the case with a government that's losing its nerve in climate. How important that is! I'll talk about the other ones and these churches. There will be an increase in contributions for specific activities in the climate, that has been observed before, increasing groundkeeping, monitoring, and research on nature protection areas. Another factor that has not been mentioned is that there is a need to increase money to and improve the quality of waste disposal, which is important. These are all substantial amounts, in contrast to what was held earlier during the discussion. These are substantial amounts and are increasing in the years to come. If you don't look so hard, so the bill comes up with two things I'm going to say. On the one hand, they're the nature labs. They don't need to be varied, these eight plantes. They do a great deal of good and are an important part of regional policy. In this regard, donations are to be dropped by 45 million. True, 16 is contrary, but this is a significant decrease for these offices, since they do not take much money. In other words, it is necessary to stretch deeper into the Kingdom box. That's what I'm going to ask the Minister. The other for direct protection against nature's threat. There, contributions are also being made. I know that it is because of various avalanches that have already been accomplished, but there are other very important threats that are then a flood of water, both because of an increase in rain and a river, as well as a flood of mud. [[The president calls.]] That's only 70 million. K. in for loading and increasing flood control. This would have meant leaving the reduction and taking care of the money that might have been there. the drive to provide additional protection against this type of nature problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u323	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson's a great deal for this input. I agree with him about the importance of a plant. It can be reported on the joyous occasion that although this shows a direct decrease to the rooms in the accompanying copy, as the senator mentioned, 16 million were taken elsewhere by those who were able to find them elsewhere, as it were. In addition to this, there have been special projects for two nature clinics, Húsavík's nature firm and the nature lab in Bolungarvík, which we will also provide and up to 20 million. Then we've come a long way to be in the place of last year's trust in a financial committee. In addition, we are looking for 80 billion next year. K. will be a project for which both Iceland's Natural Institutes of Nature and Nature will benefit. This is of utmost importance to ensure and support all decisions. For direct defense against nature's threat, you can agree that I would have liked to see more money coming in there. I especially want to learn more and take the discussion further with you. A senator with regard to the 70 billion. K. which he brings up with the defenses and agrees that we need to consider this matter much more fully, and hopefully we will have further discussions about it at the council as well as in the outside.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u324	A respectable president. I'd like to start by signing congratulations to the highest level. Environment Minister and all of us with a long-stranded climate action programme. It is an important step in fighting the great calamity we face. Much more is involved, and I am part of the group that I would have wanted to see more bold and forward steps in the controlled strategy. I would like to get the highest opinions. Environment Minister has a few things. The secretary of travel has preached a great campaign in transport. I'm sorry to say that I'm not that much of the budget bill we're discussing. The lines that refer to public transportation that provide the basis for reducing emissions and changing tourism are over 161 billion. K. and not to mention the city line, as we have seen. I'd really like to get it past the highest level. Environment Minister to see if he shares my opinion and hopefully more that the expectations and desires of public transport are more than 161 billion. K. is a sign. I also feel that there is too much emphasis on the Action Programme on counter measures and changing land use, such as recovery of wetlands and forestry. The restoration of wetlands is not an established method of meeting Paris. I also wondered what the situation is in negotiations with the EU on emissions, which many say is the basis for continuing Iceland's traffic in the battle against climate change, asking the highest level. Environment Minister can inform us about this. I also want to hear the highest stand. Environment Minister for green revenues that I would like to see appear in this budget bill such as green taxes on the airlines, such as the Swedish government placed in less than three years ago, faster increases in carbon pay, a breakdown in the interest of car rents, a version of green debts, etc. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I think we could have taken more bold and forward steps, both in terms of earnings and also in terms of financing and action against climate change. [[The president calls.]] They're faster, and we haven't been sticking to our last few years. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I would have, a respectable president, wanted to see the more bold steps, both in the budget and in the Action Programme. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u325	President wants to make a decision about what. Councilmen showing respect for the deadline.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u326	V.E.G. President. First, I'd like to thank the senator very much for his input, and I can say a lot of what the senator puts forward there. I think about transportation, and share it with the senator, that the city line is a very interesting and exciting project. Further discussions between the government and the local community in the capital area will need to be discussed and will be very exciting to see how we can cooperate with them. It may not have to sharpen me in that field, I will, of course, participate in it. Then, it's a good introduction to counter measures. First of all, it's all counter measures. Some of us are more concerned with the direct commitments of Iceland to the Paris convention. This will make the counterweight measures that have a less efficient carbon binding, but we will not be able to play them as much with the Paris Convention as men had hoped. It's said that we may have an 1◯2% in the Action Programme, but not as much as expected. This does not change the fact that the measures it takes to make climate work. We must never forget that. As a result of reducing emissions from wetlands, the climate becomes as much as the reduction of oil pollution, although the emphasis is high there. So I'm not going over the deadline, I'm going to agree with the senator that I think we're going to have to examine the green potential and the green investments -- I know that the senator's previous involvement - we may have to look ahead, and we're also going to have to examine the consumption and other factors that I know we're arguing with the senator. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u327	A respectable president. This is the end of the 1st. of budgets. I made it clear by the end of yesterday that I wanted to say something about the form. I'm not going to go over it again, but I think we've seen that the shape of changes, the production of the budget and its follow-up in recent years, have been in many ways beneficial, especially the innovation we're developing here, to have a vocabulary with an individual minister who has the law on public finances an ever greater responsibility on the budget. It even appeared. in that they can make changes in the publication provided with the budget and they are also responsible for policy development in their fields and are responsible for reporting their annual reports on the progress of the projects they have set for their measurable targets, as reported in recent annual reports. I think that's all improved. But I do this in the discussion because I believe that we will continue to develop this arrangement so that it will be most useful to reflect on different aspects of all the issues discussed. I would also like to reiterate that I hope that we will succeed in meeting the schedule of the 3rd. The budget is up. It's a cooperative project, of course, and I've offered all the help I can get. I know that Prime Ministers in their field are prepared to pay for the council's duties in order to do the same, but I know this is a lot of work to do. We've finally discussed the possibility of bringing up the budget. I've been good at it. I can't see anything special, because we're going to publish the budget in public before the council meets unless there's one thing that can become a threshold in that, i.e. Simply put, the system of government will not have finished all the work. We will continue to discuss it at the Ministry of finance. I've been thinking about the possibility that we'll give the council some days before the event is scheduled here. Let us see what we can do, whether it will be in the next year or in the next few years, to provide better space for an opening talk at the Council on the budget by a person's having a minimum of a few days to study the material and to be better prepared for the discussion. This was only about the format and arrangements and arrangements for the discussion. In terms of the subject, I think I just have to say that I had a good chance to have a place to speak with a senator yesterday and then a professional minister all day. We and the groups responsible for this bill are proud of it. It's a bill that shows good status. We can determine whether we still need to prepare for unexpected events that are not yet on the maps or not. At the very least, it is clear from all the numbers involved in this bill that we have been doing it, cumulatively, in recent years, living for the future. We also base on public predictions. We can then set it in some larger context of the long - term financial agenda whether our extended goals as such or our goals in debt are sufficiently ambitious or sufficiently adjusted for our advantage today. But I believe that we have found ourselves, both inflation, in unemployment rates, and in the recent declines, that although we have found an excellent balance in this material, it is impossible to ignore that in the latest economic report, Gylfi Zoëga produced for the most recent failures, the public finances could have been able to support a little bit more in the money policy so that the interest could have become somewhat lower. Of course, all of this is at odds with political realities that we know best, which we come together here, the national appeal for an increase in funding in certain areas. What I take from this discussion here when she's about to come to an end, 1 / 15 Um., it's possible that the tone on the government budget is changing very strongly each year, e.g. magazines from the main focus on underdevelopment in so many areas as to whether we are doing too much in certain areas and should start to consider slowing down. True, some members of the Parliament have mentioned that the tax gate may also be addressed, but I have heard less calls for increases in taxes than in times past. In this bill, it is not a matter of turning down much taxes or changing them for promotion, but I have to mention that for a job life it is important that the step is taken now and it gives us a sense of responsibility to reduce the overall insurance bill for about 9% of the total rate, about half the percentage. Here, I refer to the general insurance bill. This is about 8 billion of the 100 billion tax sources we are yielding. I refer back to what was said in the Treaty on the fact that in recent years the competitiveness of the Icelandic job life has led to a higher level of success and pay. This is one of the things the government feels it is important to put into that position to pay for collective agreements on future losses. And we've done well with other tax and improvement. In this regard, the main concern may be that in our long-term strategy, the problem is to go further, and to work on integrating reform systems and the income tax system is still going on. What we're supposed to do when we say we're going to integrate the improvement systems and the income tax system is that it's not for anyone and actually almost no one without a bit of well-provable or well-proved excel file to understand exactly how it affects different family types to increase the household income. That's because we're working with so many different systems in the home reform and support systems, and each one was custom at his time with different level of income reduction, with different limits of property, like the growth reform system and the child-replacement system. So we only act as children's reformers, they look at a number of children and earn them. In turn, there is another system called the house - to - house relief system, which likewise looks to many children and earns them. Together, we have only a complex calculus of all the precise conditions of the home of those who are to claim these benefits. Then we add as I told the growth reform system, and then look at other taxable measures for the injurities we've had. Should we then discuss the personal discount on top of all of this? So let's see what effect on the overall picture is required e.g. A member of a special pay raise to the lowest remuneration groups is included in this complex equation. It's just gotten so complicated and so rigid that we thought it was worth a lot of months'work to analyze the system. It's going well, but that job isn't over. Our objective of changes in the system must be better met by the applications that the system has to offer as a whole to those which are considered to be lower income groups and lower intermediate groups. I see a system in which we will then reduce the indiscretions to those who have crossed the average, perhaps high to double the average income, and rather use the space we are going to get to the others. [[The president calls.]] It's a discussion we'll take later. But I thought it was time for her to get in touch with a discussion about these issues during the last two days.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u328	A respectable president. Answer all spokesmen, no answer to final talk. There are two things I would like to repeat and ask Secretary of finance at the end of the discussion. What has brought my attention to this discussion is what is lacking in the budget. It has been observed by professionals that various laws are coming with their own expense estimates, which seem to be in the budget. Then I'd like to get a rough plan on how much is expected the council to go on extra into the budget; it's probably not the council because it's government business, but it's interesting to hear it. We've been scratching ourselves in the head over these numbers, especially those times between the years in the budget bill, which includes budget 2018 and the bill 2019. The numbers just didn't fit at all. After asking a few who know only what it is, these figures are of a different value, which makes it possible that when we're talking about an increase between budget 2018 and bill 2018, they're adding the prices I deserve. At that time the inflation seems to be added to the figure of 2019 as an additional increase, in effect, the government was showing off inflation. Suppose inflation is 10%. Then the 2019 numbers would be so much higher than the 2018 budget. Then you'll see how much more expenses we're raising. Part of the increase is due to inflation, yet there is a tremendous increase in expenses. This really bothers me. I certainly understand the format, but this makes the lecture much more difficult. I would appreciate the comments made by the secretary of finance in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u329	A respectable president. First with regard to cost estimates because of focus on different grammatical areas: With our emphasis on spending reassessments, we are saying that it is important not only to estimate the cost of new projects but also old projects. All that is on the budget side of the budget needs to be reviewed regularly. Even if I can agree with it with what's happened. A senator that it is very desirable for ministers to bring a distinct and precise cost assessment of individual lawsuits, is always asking how much the Minister's work should be done to calculate it accurately ahead of time. I think there's something to say, so fair, that men have at least a the ability to make a gross grasp of how they see the money spent in behalf of each subject. In other cases, it may just be obvious that the budgets that are under will do nothing unless we get going toward something. There's a lot of shit going on around here. When we say that we are going to conduct a financial program of 4 billion to make improvements in social security for disability, we might ask: How exactly will you defend these 4 billion? The answer, of course, lies in the subsequent process. [[Up front.]] In this regard, we may not be going further than saying that of the entire financial resources we have from gambling or financial resources that we can exchange between the topic areas, this is our priority. This may be the difference between when we discuss the big picture and the broad lines - how is the evolution between individual languages and how it is divided - and how we break it into financial law. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Since then, I have nothing more to say than to be careful about whether this is a fixed price or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u330	A respectable president. The price section would be at least It's good to be marked by the value of the numbers that are in order to take this into account; there is no information about the difference in prices. A minister entered the key in this, 4 billion set aside for disability, but we will decide what it is. Why should the General give the government money just to do something? Perhaps it will be in a way that the Council could say, "I'm sorry, we don't want you to spend 4 billion like this, we want you to destroy them differently. " How different? Tell us, then we'll give you the warrant. It's the right order to do it that way. Of course, the cost of self - control does not have to be precise. And surely we know that it will change, that comes a reassessment, and more. It's just good. Then, as time goes on, you get to be accurate in cost estimates. To improve in this, we need to train ourselves. The General Assembly is not to accept the fact that they ask for money without any indication of what to use it. I think there's a key point that we need to create in order to create a real and real surveillance with the implementation of budgets at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u331	A respectable president. I totally understand what you're doing. A senator is leaving. It is still a question of how far we should go in violation of additional expenditures when the other expenses cannot be covered regularly. For example, we have a high share of 900 billion expenses and an additional expenditure of over 50 billion. If we take the overall addition and take off the pay force and just look at what's going on and what's about to happen without paying the pay, it'll run from 30 to 40 billion. Of course, it is important to consider carefully the cost estimates involved. Normally, for example, it is quite clear that if you want to add 4.5 billion to your road maintenance, you will wonder how far we should go in breaking it down by individual roads, the expense of each road, etc. We set over 4 billion on S-labelled medicinal products this year, how far are we going to break down at the cost estimate for that drug? I think we need to find some balance between doing the work and the other work that is taking a closer look at the overall trend and not achieving more saving, increasing profits, more government production, e.g. by implementing a new technology, in line with what the Minister of Justice is now indicating by e - mail.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u332	Mr. President. I'm gonna start off on a positive note. The union is celebrating every crown placed on the foundation of society. In this bill, however, all the funds that will go into place, even if that were so, can be found, since the last election turned more or less on public infrastructure investments. Within a month, ten years will be after collapse. Tomorrow, ten years will have passed since the Lahman brothers in New York broke down, causing tremors all over the world. Condemned collapse, especially here. It would have been the fourth largest failure in American history if they had been located there. After the collapse, many Icelandic companies went under, and the public had to take on heavy loads and difficulties. There are many who have not yet recovered. For a few years, the wealth was run with billions of dollars, and the public welfare system was very much involved. On the other hand, we managed to straighten out mostly. Today, economic growth has been continuous for seven years, unique in our history. Under such circumstances, there is a potential for improving that lack of public investments and proper status. In some places, it has been fine, in other places it has not been. Mr. President. There's no need to repeat all that's been said here yesterday and day, but I'd like to mention a few things. The budget bill gives little evidence that the government is ready to engage in the high level of property that threatens stability here, including the U.S. in the labour market. However, it is a struggle that is important to fight. Today, 1% of the population owns more pure property than 80% of the population. At that time, nearly half of the pure possessions created in 2016 took place. In this regard, it would be good to mention inadequate income resources, such as increase in capital taxes, the pressures of resource taxes, and the increase in resource costs. The resource costs will continue to be less than 1% of the government's income, which will be considered very special in view of one of the country's major common resources. Next year's fishing fee is going to be only 7 billion. The budget bill of the last government expected about 10 billion for 2018. Thus, between years of fishing, there is a 3 billion drop. I remind you that the profit of fishing companies was nearly 300 billion dollars. During a period of seven years and 50 billion dollars in five years. Now there's reports of huge profits and interest pay to a few developers and then, right then, the government wants to turn down the fishing fees. It is also interesting that, according to news reports, fish stocks are now in a historically strong position, so an opportunity to place the additional box on the market is unique. It determines the individual fishing fees rather than the chancellorizing of politicians. It was very interesting to observe the auctiones that happened to our cousins. They get considerably more, in some cases, much more what we receive, for individual species. It was also interesting that the capital tax will return $2 billion. less in the Kingdom box next year than in the financial budget. Only 2% of families paid capital taxes for the stock market as long as 98% did not pay for this share. Of course, it says its place in property and property. It's just to lower the bank tax by 7 billion, but maybe not right away. It must also be considered a peculiar priorities. However, the reduction in insurance costs is very positive and long time - time, which is of great importance to various companies, especially in small and mediumsized areas, and especially in innovations. However, the amount of money to run beyond what is due to their growth in the bill is enough for only one third of what it costs to eliminate a so - called cent against a coin, which we all must agree to be very unjust. According to the bandormins we're talking about next week, unchanged income-freemarks are also expected by professional biofuels. It's strange. The increase to the elderly is largely due to an increase in their ranks, and the amount of money in that category is still substantial, so that they can cope well. A few billion missing, e.g. in the business of aging. So poorer and older citizens will have to wait another year for justice and the necessary compensation. The colleges receive even more than half the amount promised in the government covenant. And high school has to be just a drop from year to year. That's a concern, because this is one of our most important investments in Iceland to ensure a better future. Hospital service, national health care, transportation, law enforcement. It's all a bad thing or an underdeveloped group. How much better we need to deal with them too! We are a rich nation, and we can do much better. We need and would have had to make more use of the uplift here to build up the wood, for when the hardness of the valley is very uncertain and, in fact, quite different from our ability to do so. Mr. President. I would also like to draw special attention to the total lack of ambition when it comes to housing support during times when a large group is facing total failure. The provision for housing stays almost constant between years. By 2018, only 3.4 billion, less than ever, will grow, when they were expected to be 4 billion. Only 3 billion a year will they be affected. I remind you that half is out of the growth reform system, but when the Union was last in the government with the VG we put 100 billion in interest of interest and child support during the election season, which, of course, is a much higher amount than the government is doing today. That's how we could go on for a long time. Mr. President. Developmental contributions are also only half of what some neighboring countries add to the group and of the United Nations goal. We are the 11th richest country in the world, and in time we must be more ambitious. Note, too, that the government loses its promise to cancel a valuable tax on books but aims to increase direct support. Here we need to keep an eye on the importance that the output selected will be efficient. I eagerly await further information from the Ministry of Education on these matters and doubts about her conversations with the council today. She also owes us answers to how she will make up for the expected loss of the government radio and will provide financial support for the individual media, which is truly necessary. That's not done in this bill. What's positive, though, is that the government groups agree with us in the United States that child support should not be far below minimum wage. However, only a few months have passed since the government forces made such a suggestion, last in spring. The child repair system is still very expensive. One quarter has fallen from the system over the past few years because of impairment. According to the bill, there's going to be a direct increase in the impairment of middle-tempered persons. If you've got 4 60,000 bucks, that's what you're talking about. or more per month, the impairment will bite severely. On the other hand, I am positive about the emphasis that has been shifted from flat income taxation to raise the personality discount, which is too small and better if necessary. Ideas about action in the environment are also positive and long - time, although they are not yet fully developed. However, the rise in carbon costs is even lower than the budget given to the last government in the fall of 2016. I find it hard to understand that no more money goes to public transport and nothing in the city line, which raises questions as to whether the minister's knowledge of the environment is particularly great. Finally, I have to point out that the basis for the budget and, in some respects, the budget is probably quite unrealistic. They're based on the fact that there will be 13 consecutive years of economic growth, which has never occurred in the history of Iceland. Then, for the next five years, unchanged trials are expected, but the tragedy has rarely been as strong as it is now, and history shows that such things do not last forever. The crown's walking directly affects economic growth, inflation, growth, tax revenue, private consumption, etc. and there will be little left to the scope of the budget said by the secretary of finance to be stretched to the limit. [[The president calls.]] The bill is a compromise of two distinct categories, of which there are two completely different goals, independent classes, and left greens, marked by moulds. But likely the irony of fate was that on the very day that the budget was submitted, there was a dramatic fall. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u333	President wants to thank you. A senator for this tissue for administration, but did not need it for this time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u334	Mr. President. First, I want to thank you for the discussion about the budget and the arrangements that have been taken. I'll agree with the highest. Secretary of finance that it was good to have the Ministers all today and hear their point of view, ask about their topic areas, etc., it's been a long day for all of us but effective. There's a lot of good going on here. I thank you for the answers the Ministers have made in these discussions. So I agree with the highest. Minister, this has given us a great deal to do. As he said himself in the discussions here yesterday, we are learning into these new songs, and that's a good thing. I'm not going to repeat what I said at the beginning of this discussion, I'd rather use this opportunity and just come on to something I didn't come to because of the time in my previous talks. I'd like to make some tax changes. On page 18. 111 of the bill is introduced into the supplementary pension savings and the general resources for the assessment payable in a special pension fund to buy on an apartment or pay off a loan. They'll be dropped in the middle of next year. They've had little discussion about the budget bill, and it's a little bit of a surprise. The budget bill says that the use of this strategy has increased rapidly, which I believe is positive. Then we ask: Why would that be? Because housing prices are highest. This is a very important source. I have to say, she's given up really well. So in my opinion, I'm surprised that the government is going to eliminate this warrant at the same time that the market is in the serious situation described here that has been discussed. This will result in the reduction of funds in the special savings fund. It's hard to see if the government doesn't see that it's bad that it reduces the savings of the country just when it needs to be encouraged to save money, especially because it's going to have a public charge water supply and expand on this financial bill, as I've said. It's crystal clear. I think we can agree that the bow is quite tense in that regard. Yearly contracts are available, and the development of inflation is uncertain. Then there is the need to reduce the saving of the people of the land and eliminate this vital authority. I think it is a very unreasonable arrangement and would have wanted to see that this possibility is still there, but the government has decided it will not be. The bill also shows that this requires additional revenues from the income tax of individuals that are estimated to be $1.1 billion, it reminds me to be on the bill. It's a little typical of this government in my opinion that the public is led to believe that his terms are being improved, as if by this small rise in personality discount at the same time and another important tax beat is taken away, as I've described here. I don't think that's good. I don't think that's what I'm thinking. I'd like to say positively about this government- and financial administration that we're paying off debt and paying off on pension bonds. As mentioned in the discussion, I think that it is impossible to have done so in a handsome way in the kinder people who have been rich. It is also bad that it is not possible to take the opportunity to eliminate or reduce the degree of impairment, especially for older citizens who are interested, willing, and able to work part - time. I think it's a public health matter and that older citizens are very important. Indeed, in the economic situation we have been in, this positive situation, it would have been possible to take the first step so as to be sensitive in those areas. Mr. President. I see time is moving fast. I also wanted to stop at what I don't feel I've been looking at, that's the economic uncertainty issues. We see that there are warnings from different sources. They're not properly listened to in my opinion. There is a very interesting chapter in the bill on page 18. Ninety-nine economic uncertainty. It says that after the longevity and longevity of the past few years, most uncertainties now seem to have a negative impact on economic progress. It quotes a survey conducted by Gallup among the managers of 400 of the largest companies in the country. It shows that in the next six months, 40% of the directors feel that the situation in the economy is getting worse. Only 7% believe they'll be better. This is very serious in this way so that uncertainty can change all the criteria of the bill. Then we will see how valuable it would have been in the financial program if we had been allowed to see some of the staged pictures drawing out how it can affect the economy and economic progress, e.g. Regarding travel if there was a short recession. We discussed this in the financial and financial discussions that it was very important and the highest. The secretary of finance came in just the way he was supposed to. I expect and hope that there will be relief efforts so that future conditions can be better assessed because they are so important in this work. Once we have an unrealistic basis, like they appear to us, such as. The lack of economic growth is so high that what follows will become unrealistic. I would have liked to see that listening had been more alert to the warning signs displayed in the bill. It's time to go to the end. I say and repeat that it is very important, e.g. for growth improvements and child support, changes in these declines and decline limits. That is the point of these suggestions. [[The president calls.]] Finally, I want to say what I said at the beginning of the discussion that I think this financial bill is lacking in discipline. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There's a road going down, and it's not foreordained.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u335	President wishes to go for it. Senators respect the deadline. The president also says that it is not an obligation to speak all the time. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u336	Mr. President. I've just had a challenge not to talk in full time. There is not much faith in its fulfillment. But now I'm going to make an effort to do so. First, I want to thank you for the discussion here today. I've been keeping an eye on her, and I've been keeping an eye on her. There have been many extremely good questions to the Ministers, and as a means of understanding, people are confused with the answers, that is quite normal, but I have found the discussion to be good, and I agree with them. paritaprevir Sara, the daughter of Elísa Þórðardóttir, who sits in the hall and said that she felt that the atmosphere was different from ours. That's why I'm taking it. I think it's more positive, i.e. In general, away from the subject of which we are here. This is fine and makes the discussion better. The economic situation is good, and the Council is that we've been paying off debts in the past few years because we've had the opportunity to do it the way it has been established in the debt of pension. All of this matters, and this is a financial conference. I'd also like to talk about what I might think is the most important thing in this bill, that's the equation. We're trying to increase the equation, as we have seen here. This is important for all of us, not just those who are bad, but all in the community, since equality has positive results. There's a lot to take into account when talking about the equation. Some have talked about just over 500 bucks. in person discount. Of course, that is not the only action, nor is it to be drawn out of parentheses. When we talk about equal surgery, we're talking about the personal discount. We're talking about the baby change. We're talking about housing support, dental expenses for older citizens, and disability, and reduced paybacks for health care. It all matters. Sadly, though, something is withdrawn and says: " You're not doing anything. ' Now that's the whole equation? Of course not. I think when it comes to it, people will see it, of course. I've also said that we can always do better, and we should. Every time we try to do better because there is no community to make it better. That's the big deal. We're promoting health care. We are putting a lot of money on the medical clinic to make it the first stop that will hopefully reduce the need for the specialized, expensive hospital service, the need for it not to be as great as it has recently been. We are here to become examples in climate matters. Here was the environmental minister of the last seminar on the program earlier. We can do so, can be sex worshipers in climate matters, just as we have been in equality. It's a huge step we're taking in that lawsuit. Not to be overlooked. All of this matters. We are also adding a considerable amount of money to academic affairs, even though others are claimed to be, that's just the way it is. We are adding expenses to each student by 7% between 2018 and 2019 years. We should not forget that the number of students is reducing. We are also increasing our donations to our three collections. There's not been much talk about culture here, just nothing. We're raising contributions to the Film Fund. We're also raising money to innovation, which will come both through the Ministry of Education and our Neo-born minister. We are entering the future with what we need, and these are at least the first steps in trying to make good society even better. I think, more dignified President, what I've been doing here is going over the samples of left greens, as I said yesterday and I say again, because I'm not convinced that the budget bill would look so good if we weren't in this government. Of course, it is important when different groups approach us as we try to meet. I think it went well here. I'll agree with the highest. Financial and economic secretary that the work on the budget bill is doing quite well. I think it should work out. I also agree with the view that we should try to make the discussion even deeper at the outset by trying to hand the bill to those in charge earlier. I think that would be good. I look forward to the work ahead of the Committee. I guess it'll be good. There is a big schedule ahead of us at a budget board that has been planned as far ahead of time as we can see, i.e. Until Christmas. I believe that my associates and I are on the budget board here, together, working the case not only fast but also well. I feel that the discussion has given evidence today that we are really on the right track.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u337	A respectable president. I'll compliment you. Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir finished here in six minutes. I'm not in the habit of saying thank you for the discussion because I'm sure of it, but I'm still going to thank the head of the board for this discussion, not only in return to the minister but also in public, to be imitated. Thank you. I'm gonna do a little over and over again what I said to the secretary of finance earlier on what is missing in the bill. It turned out to the minister that there were things going on that don't seem to be on the budget bill, e.g. Remuneration of books by the Minister of Education, ocean research ships at a seafaring minister, microenergy pensions by a social minister, so it was the animal tunnel, they are not inside the budgets, they seem to be inside the expense field, so that the amount of money already filled with the animal surface is somehow used to say that there is more to transport than otherwise being added, in view of all that is available. There are inaccuracies. It was found that the budget of 2018 does not match the value of the figures as well as the bill for 2019 that makes the comparison difficult because of the lack of inflation. When the government says, "We're adding much money to a subject, they're bragging about inflation. " There's some kind of inflation tone inside that's a little interesting. The third point in the discussion that I would like to come back is the discussion of debt. This was a rather remarkable debate because we have a very well defined how much money debt we have, which is their interest, interest costs, etc. What we do not have as closely is the debt we owe to the systems and infrastructure we have suffered in recent years. There is also a debt that we need to repay, but the cost of that debt is very unclear. If we had more accurate figures on that cost, we might have chosen to build up wood than to pay off our financial debts. If we could see this, it would not be unlikely that, in some cases, building, for example, would be more beneficial in a longer period of time. building a health system faster than paying off direct money debt after all. An interesting point to consider in the future. Fourth, the budget bill, as it looks today, I put it to an empty source, but it's not exactly true. If I use an old metaphor that people may not understand well anymore, we're accepting a check that's written on the rails. Here you go, there's 4 billion in disability something. But the government doesn't tell us what this is, but it's going to use it to make it happen to an invalid in one way or another by some reorganization, etc. The problem is that the Council may not want to give the government 4 billion in what it will do. The action taken may not seem to please the General, but the funds have been given. That's a completely backwards order. The government should first come and say, "This is what we're going to do, it's gonna cost a lot, we're gonna get this a lot out of it. Do we get the money to do it? That's right. Overall, the entire budget is like this. There are goals and measures that the government is going to put into, and it has also shown that there are some actions no longer in the budget but in the budget and that are likely to be neither part of the budget nor the budget that the government is still paying for, and it is very difficult to see. Are these new actions, or is this processed within the frame? This flows back and forth, and there's a lot of uncertainty, really, about what's being asked. After all, it appears that we accept this check to 900 billion, the right government him, and say, "You do almost anything you want to do with this, yes, you will stay within the framework of each subject. All of this seems to be extremely casual, which makes the other key role of the Generals very difficult, i.e. financing the budget, whether we're getting what we're giving the money, whether it's worth the money, whether we're dealing with public funds. It is important to know what money is going to do before giving the warrant so that you can't say afterwards: Yes, we used the money in it, and it went really well. I don't know if it's true or not, because it's dessert. Desperation doesn't mean anything, it just tells me how I felt and so forth. The fifth and final item I was going to mention is the climate, but in the discussion, carbon binding came up several times. At that time, several members of the council were wondering how much carbon dioxide is absorbed by Kate. But what the earth does is just what the earth does, it has nothing to do with us. We are focusing on what humans do, and they add what the earth does naturally. Digging ditches and drains through swamps produces a measure of emissions, that is, man's work. If we are going to level everything else that we do by shoveling back into the canal, it will not work. At first, we have made the initially damaged task neutral. We can't use it to take back everything else and the things that cars take away from them constantly. It's just a minus, and then it's closed again, shoveled into the ditch, and it's zero. That's all that's gonna come out. If that were to be the case, we would have double accounting. I would like to ask senators to study only the reports that have been published in this regard before they begin to comment on how Kate damages all of this for us. The earth just does what it does. We worry about what we add, and that's not little at all. At the end, I'd like to say that this is an interesting presentation of the discussion. I might suggest that the beginning of the discussion would be a little longer, a financial minister and spokesmen would get a little longer at the beginning of the discussion to cover the budget, 15 minutes, and 10 minutes were relatively small. It would be nice to take the last part at the beginning of the day, but not at the end of the day, who knows. But this was an interesting experiment, which I think was very successful.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u338	V.E.G. President. We're here to finish the 1st. of the budget bill in some kind of summary talks. It can be divided into form and the content of the discussion. I'm going to join them. Councilmen who have praised the form of the conversation and I think it's given a lot to them, Mr. President. Of course, some of the topics of the discussion have been defined as being designed. It is only natural for a large picture of the government's budget to be covered in the 1st of the year. As was the case here on the first day of the discussion. The linking of the economy in general was very prominent in the debate, in discussions about the state of the nation's state of state and the impact of public funds on the economy, on economy, economic forecasts, on economic growth, on the development of gangs, on the effects on exports and on large sectors that depend largely on their ability to export, on money issues other than currency and gangs, on GDP, on prices, on the market agreements, and on embassies that can be found in the bill for coming bill, but also on the increase and on each budget directly. Similarly, in Article 2, the tax changes announced as well as the changes to the income side of the budget found in other Parliamentary documents have been discussed in Article 2, discussing various legal requirements for 2019 and in two other cases, the bills requiring changes in various laws and the prices of many remunerations. These three issues are directly related to the budget, necessary adjustments and the requirements and budgets for further discussion and payment at the council and what to do. The Economic and Business Committee. In the discussion today, the second day of the 1st. of the budget bill, a conversation occurred with the Minister of the Supreme Minister. Governments on the topic range that each will hear. Official financial laws are very clear about the responsibilities each minister has on his own matters. That discussion was more basic, a respected president, the nature of a case, and more attention was to action and goals, individual expenses, and money to the earmarks. I liked this discussion as a result of the talk about the big movie and reflected more on many politics. There are a number of factors that were presented here during the discussion, and most people would like to say positive things. The fact is that the status of the state funds is more solid now than for years, and it is reflected in the financial bill. There is a situation that enables us to attack the development of infrastructure and to increase expenses for our major infrastructure. On the contrary, I felt that there were combinations of health, welfare, education, environment, transportation costs. I was a little surprised to learn that it was not quite the same thing when it came to climate action, as if I had in the past believed it would be. There was also a good agreement on measures presented here for social stability, I mention an increase in child reform, an increase in housing support, a reduction in insurance costs for employment, and there was in general a great calm towards the measures required to improve ideal groups with lower income and intermediate groups. At the same time, during the discussion there was widespread concern that expenses are increasing and that they have certainly been doing over the years. At the same time, there was a view that it would not be possible to expect that so much tax growth could be maintained each year during the coming years, and that was generally what I thought during the discussion was a common harmony. Therefore, it is important to strengthen and review income products, just as important, to monitor and reevaluate income costs, systematically and regularly, and to examine precisely and to set up limits on the expenses, on which taxes are going, and on what they pay. This is an important, more dignified president, to ensure the future sustainable financial situation that, of course, should be the common goal of all of us. A brain, Mr. President, is in pursuit of practical, well-funded discussions, I think it's balanced, fair, I thought the form was good, but most of all, it's the best thing to do. It's a legal committee. We're gonna do what we're gonna do. The legislature board rejoices over the bill and for further analysis of the 2nd. This discussion is a good thing for them to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u339	Mr. President. Over the past few weeks, it has been reported that the foundation of the budget can become out - of - date, but hand - waved. For the sake of this, there is movement on the crown's gangs and an air on the tourism network that now plays a key role in the new Icelandic economy. Both of the elements I could do the basics of the bill. I can agree to the policy of preparing for the future under the premise of financial sustainability by reducing debt and paying on pension bonds to public employees. However, I cannot agree with the priorities of the bill. The important thing is that with the bill it is not seized the opportunity now to bring justice to those whose feet are in Icelandic society. For example, the government still insists on restraining reformers from improving their interests by increasing their work. The cost of delinquency has been expressed by the minister of finance and his Ministry to the costs of the holiday market, at an average of 1 billion, 2 or 3 according to the way the winds blow on that town. There are no calculations, but it is known that tax pay is not taken into account by the increased income of taxpayers. The basic bill of Stockholm's people is a well - versed report by an approved scholar, who takes these factors into consideration, and his conclusion is that abdication of the income market is of no value to the state's funds. Not a cent, Mr. President. I can't agree with the government's priorities on tax issues either. A dramatic decrease in bank tax by means of left-green prints, to be used for wording. The chairman of the fine party here tonight is surprised to learn that no more is said. We in the people's group would like to use a gradual personal discount in order to raise tax limits to the lowest income. We will present this subject's bill, which is now awaiting the final attention that will be given among the priorities of the class. I welcome the decision to increase the growth in child support and growth, but it will prove to be of little value if the unrealistic standards for property are kept in the way of those who need interest. V.E.G. Surely a minister would consider this if he was interested in making the money that I would not doubt. There's a bargain at the door. I believe above all, that their conclusion cannot be the result of new inflation. It would harm most of those with the lowest income and otherwise have broken legs. For most families with loans to finance housing, such developments would be very damaging. Much water is going to fall to the sea in the past from collective agreements. It may be that recent events at the outset add pressure to the fact that the collective agreements did not harm what has been achieved in the greater cost of the past losses and will not result in a smoldering price reduction, and no defense has been made in the interests of households to the impact of inflation on the price-securement loans. Perhaps there is the solution to a wide variety of measures involving the poor and relief workers, mainly good housing campaigns, which I consider to be a conversation with the union officer, that the labor movement is very ongoing, action on hyper-growing and insurance, and so on. Perhaps the agreements - and that would be wishful - would be an opportunity to lay the foundation for a new balance where the object of those who have been remembered to be right; a balance that can be based on a further application to improved biographers in the country, a lifestyle that everyone enjoys and not just some while others are forgotten. The discussions have revealed many things, and I agree with the comments of the people here who have said that they were grammatical, informative, and helpful. I'm going to take some factors into account briefly. With regard to a national fund, which is presented here on the part of the government, there is no question how it will be used. There is no way to tell who could enjoy money from the fund. Everything is unclear about the government of the fund. I hope that when I heard a minister say that those who had no democratic authority should take care of his cause. With this fund, everything about his relationship with the government's funds is unknown. In the introduction to these funds, nursing homes and research have been discussed. This is almost embarrassing, Mr. President. These aspects of our national life are to be financed by market routes regarding the nursing home through the elderly's management fund, the state funds, and so on. The same is true of research, which raises the question of whether they are mentioned for beauty purposes and as sales points for an idea that seems unformed, given the small amount of information on such a big matter and yet seems to be a big hobby in some towns. However, it is positive to have a minister's view of money that could be collected through income contributions from electrical resources and perhaps even by some means. other resources will become the fruit outside the landstones and thus will not be subjected to the inflation of property markets, as recent examples have been. In terms of carbon costs, with the response of the Environment and Resource Minister to the inquiry from the individuals listed here, the government has been able to work on a policy that they have no idea what the effect is and must be counted as a subject of thought, to say no more, that this taxation is being maintained and with the effect it has, including on prices in the country and including the infamous index price everyone knows. In terms of reserves, the secretary of finance raised a comment on the subject of conversation yesterday some surprises. They were on the way, if correctly noted, that he still felt that the means to finance transport projects that are good and urgent by reaching out for funds from the reserves. In advance, a minister could have been expected to take care of such application of the reserve for projects that apparently do not meet the requirements of Article 24. the law on government finance, including unforeseeableness, and that properly should be financed by financial and financial decisions. I'd like to be able to handle the mortgage, because he came up here in a conversation between councilmen and Ministers yesterday. In view of the limited interest that seemed to be reported from a minister on the indication that the indexal housing, as a peculiar disparagement, had made large financial expenditures, cannot be avoided by the secretary after a written answer to this cost. May all be aware of what this housing has cost the taxpayers, just as we now know how much he has cost his home because of apartment purchases; and thank me for his answer, use this opportunity, to my inquiry on that subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u340	A respectable president. First, I would like to agree with those members of the council who have spoken ahead of me about the benefits of this discussion, which has been very good. I think most of it was perplexing, extensive, and by 1st. The financial bill is clearly an improvement from what has been before. We gain additional depth from the discussion at the outset, and here, of course, it is very important that we be successful in handling the changes that were put into place on the terms of the government's laws on public finances and how we deal with them. There are a lot of things in this budget to be promised. The priorities are clear, clear to our health systems, to our health systems, to our educational systems. All of this is well and in harmony with the demands of society and rhythms of emphasis, e.g. Our last government in priority management. However, it may not be surprising from this point on that what is most reprehensible in these budgets, and is in the spirit of the financial policy of this government, is a total lack of restraint, a body of counsel in the management of a state fund, and a sense that many systems of the state's funds can be added without having to go along with a huge expansion. A review of the usefulness of funds might be cited. Of course, it's all about priorities and what you can do at any given time. Of course, we need to look at one of the key values of the law on government finance, which is the long-term sustainableity of the state's budget, that we can live up to the spending proposals we are paying, even in the worse years, with no threat to government funds or to his products. Of course, in recent years and decades, we have had to cut down on very important well - being systems in our time of downturn, when the common people can least do such cuts and even resort to a tax crisis together, as in the last crisis. Of course, it's a bad balance, we can say, in the state's funds, because it's really a swing. I'm sorry, as you look at financial policy and the government's budget, this is a case of repeating the economic problems of the past and, actually, decades. It would be nice to interrupt a recent report by a money conference committee, by permission of a president: In the 1920's, a new class system based on class struggles developed and is often referred to as the Tetragrammaton. For some reason, a standard economy - based on using financial and financial administrations to dupupl espionage - has never been demolition in this ◯new system. Another political objective - employment, welfare, regional policy, or simply the desire to win the next election - has always been the priority of maintaining economic stability. This, of course, is the highest. The secretary of finance referred to the discussion earlier tonight, what he mentioned as political reality. However, it is our responsibility to ensure that the very stability of the earth is right here. How do we achieve this economic stability, how do we reach growth level? How do we get inflation? Even in recent years, though we have experienced intense fluctuations, we have been better able to cope than in previous decades, the average disaster in this period is still about 5%. Our average growth difference with the kingdoms we would like to compare with is also about 5%. This is what the public pays for our lack of discipline in the economy and especially in government matters. It is a recurring theme of increasing expenses during times of excitement, amplitude, and the need to reduce expenses during periods of downturn because there are no financial resources to fulfill the promises made in better times. This is the reality, certainly not political, but the reality we have to face. When I'm listening for the explanation, it's the best. Secretary of the budget and the highest. The prime minister in this environment is more than picked up, that we have done so much to improve the work done around the budget and during financial policy. It is true that we have the greatly improved projection. We have the big-time information gift, but it reminds me a little bit of a captain who always drives on the same cut but just renews the shipping machines. He's making a much better policy, but he's still the same policy. There is no improvement in the problems we face. We've always taken the government's money to the fore. This time, I don't see that policy was any different in this regard. We will continue the same course, without doubt, end with the same consequences as before. Of course, it is a mistake to see that we are not learning more from a recent story than we have seen. The government's got to be controlled in a practical way. Governments must agree, as it were, with the Federal Bank on the Management of the economy. This, of course, is what has been repeatedly pointed out in all the reports that have been carried out since the collapse. The advice of the World Bank, the advice of consultations on the increase in prosperity, the comments of the many stakeholders and economists, has all been that way; we have to improve the economy. That's too bad, then, when we look at a government anti-channel change in money management but intend to put in a bill about money banks later in the winter with adjustments in the current money management not to address the basic problems that were exactly the result of this same money policy committee, that if we were to be successful, we would have to play after the rules of the game. There are some things I think are very important for us to make significant improvements. First, of course, it is purpose and effectiveness. We have a very vague estimate of the success of a government policy, of what we are getting for the amount of money set aside in individual lawsuits. We have a very vague estimate of costs for the main Minister's further spending plans. The cost or effectiveness of these measures is very unclear. Furthermore, it has been observed in this discussion that there are a number of non-involved measures or plans, whether in financial policy or in the financial bill of this year, and that they will be improved later. It's not disciplined or improved. There must be a requirement for these same Ministers that they simply cut down their other plans. That is the focus of government priorities. What we see, too, is what has been criticized about financialism as such. Its objective, or share, as a share of land production, is just as good. We find it very clearly in the contribution of this budget bill that since the approved financial policy earlier this year, there is a significant increase in prices due to a greater decrease in interest rates than expected. Because space is immediately removed, it is not new to the better supply of the Kingdom treasure. This shows that the living goals set out in the government's financial policy are nothing more than clean and clean floors, could almost call it roof, at the source of a government fund at any given time. From this, I think we'll have to make it right. We, however, have a clear understanding of the outcome. The government is headed here for some kind of, rather questionable Iceland meal to increase government fees. If we just look at a relatively simple standard of spending on a fixed price, here we are looking for the timelines for this financial strategy to an approximate one-quarter increase of these same budgets from around the end of the year. 2.2 million per person at 2.7 million per person. I think, in the latter time, we have not seen the rate or speed of increase in the rate of government spending as we have planned. I repeat my first warning: For this purpose it will be no more present, and the consequences of this government waste policy will be the same. We will have less economic instability, fluctuating economy, higher interest levels, and higher inflation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-14-4.u341	It's finally 1st. of budgets for 2019 C.E. The president would like to thank you for the discussion and how well an agreement on the arrangement has been held.
