ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u1	Mr. President. It is with great pleasure that I hereby vote with a bill in which there is a very important change in service to disabled people with long-term needs. Here we are legally establishing NPA, but we are also making certain legal rights in service to disabled people who receive services different from the NPA, so this is a historical time. This is where I hear the Generals agree with this bill, and afterward we will vote for a bill that will bring in various compensations for the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Disorientation. I think this is a very good day for Icelandic society, we're taking important steps. These are very important changes, and we're just going on the journey we've made here. Again, I am so happy to be able to pay this bill my positive vote. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u2	President. NAPA and social services have been on the table of the welfare committee since I arrived at the council at the end of 2016. What surprised me most then on these big and important human rights matters was the lack of real consultation with users in the service, i.e. A real discussion that goes through the whole process, from A to O, where not only stakeholders are invited to a meeting to express themselves, but where people work together, where people really listen and take into account the comments and the changes made. I thank the members of the health committee, the representatives of disabled people, and all who came to work for their share in making this arrangement possible. The agreement and transparency with law-making is what makes sure that we accept here at council the best possible outcome for society all. Today, in the Senate, it is good to see a representative of those who use this bill as their authority. Hopefully, this is just the first step toward the absolute access of the disabled to the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u3	A respectable president. The law is about to become a precious bill, providing a group of disabled people with the potential for increasing quality of life, and many people face even a new life. The aim is to establish more treaties as rapidly as possible. This is true of a rich will on the welfare committee. As a team and State cooperation project, both governments are under great pressure. The cost-change is one of the figures that have been made. We are confident that this will be completely satisfied and that it will not delay the development of this vital project. We look to the future with this legal arrangement, that the primary form of service to those who are disabled is the user - controlled personal assistance. This is a sensitive, complex and extensive legislation and an important part of the procedure is a regulation. We are confident that we will succeed. Finally, I would like to thank for the excellent work and cooperation of the Committee and thank all those who have been involved in this legislation, both in this council and in the previous council, since it has become a long story. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u4	Mr. President. First of all, there is a very short period of change here. It is consistent with the timing of the two prime projections, i.e. what we just agreed on and this bill. With these laws, society social services laws are inferred to take into account the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Infirm People. This is an important milestone and emphasizes the will of the council that disabled persons enjoy the rights of the contract. We also make changes in the law to conform to laws about serving to disabled people with long - term needs. It has one of the most important interactions between NAPA services and public service under these laws. Work with the bills has been done together, and all those involved in that work deserve thanks. The overall legalization is a significant step that will improve the services of citizens of this country and enhance the rights people have. That's a reason to celebrate.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u5	A respectable president. We're agreeing to a very good deal here. The key point is that this is the first step in validating the United Nations Convention on Infirm People. Then there's a spare. I make it my suggestion that we bring these matters to the welfare committee and work there as we have won this case. You can do it just one, two and three. That's what we're supposed to do, to make sure that disabled people get all the rights that others have, and right away.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u6	A respectable president. It's not a big deal, is it? But I'd like to come on to a show I came on to 2nd. to underline this, as stated in the job committee's Committee of Professional Roads, that it is a rich desire to reevaluate the ownership of the Landsnet. A lot of reporters came into it. As noted in the Motion Review Report, such work has already begun. I encourage the government and minister to impress these matters and that we here in this council hall are involved in the expedition to revise the holdings of the Landsnet, as it is established in the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u7	Mr. President. This is the opinion of the employment committee by means of a change in bill to correct the changing of fish control laws. The matter was discussed in the Committee between 2 and 3. The committee suggests changing the bill to the point that the value of selling sold sels is divided between production and fund according to Article 3. 1st par. adapt to a specific price for non-statutory sea forces in a ratio of 80/20. The commission also suggests that the building of this fishing vessel should be granted permission in the area where the home of its fishing vessel was registered on April 23, 2018, but it may choose to be developed from two to two of them. Three years of absence of domesticlocks today. The Commission stresses that an experiment to a year is being made to establish the basic objectives of the coastal fishing system. The Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following modification: We're on 1st. a. On second base. Adding to new numbers, as follows: That the maximum intensity of emissions of coastal fishing period 2018 is 700 tons. b. Instead of a ◯50% to the second event, Article 3 of matter. Come on: 80%. c. There is also a new branch, as follows: There is a new provision made for temporary thought: No matter the 4th mg. Section 6. a The following provisions apply to the maintenance of coastal fishing practices by land areas in 2018. The site where the household of that fishing vessel was registered on April 23, 2018 should be authorised, but it may be chosen as the area where she has been fishing for two years. Three years of absence of domesticlocks today. Under this view, in advance Smári Mccarthy's publications, Sigurður Páll Jónsson was absent from the case, but literature was regarded as having access to 4 mg. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. The Þorgerður of K. Gunnarsdóttir was meeting the committee as an officer of the hearing and is acceptable to this opinion. The rest of the committees are the one here, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, Jónsson Sigurður Kristjánsdóttir, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Nællur Friðbertsson, Sæland Góðjar S. Brjánsson, and Sigurdrunnsson. There have been suggestions for making certain changes that I believe should meet the viewpoints that have been presented in the process. There has been a certain fear that ships would move specifically to the A area, and that is why the suggestion is based on the domesticization of April 23th, which opened the Fishing Agency on registration into the coastal fishing system. We know that far and wide throughout the country, there are poor sealands that have caught up with coastal boats in the summers that have remained loyal to these settlements and that have yet come to a different home. It's inhabited like North Fun in the Beachs, Bakkafjörður, Curfjörður Island and Redfaring. These sites have been linked to those places, and for these places it has been of great importance to promote areas around coastal fishing. The community has earned income, and those who live there have benefited from the fact that these people have come. That's why we put this in, that looking at two or three years in the house is independent of domestic stability today when they've been fishing from where they've been sitting. However, in terms of the amount of utilities already covered, it had been agreed to be taken out of the total amount of sea fishing. This makes the total quantity more valuable. It has been a relatively low watch, and it has not caught the power to catch the last few years, it has burned up between its years. Previously, there was a suggestion that its value would be divided in half between the funds of the Marine Research Institute and the candidate. When it was discovered that the price for ulsing was pretty low, it was decided to have these proportions different, that 80% go to the exposé and 20% to this fund of the Marine Research Institute. Still, it is very important that the cast is not included in the amount of material that the person has made can be caught at a maximum of every day, 650 pounds [650 kg] of cunning. I believe that this case has been won across politics for a long time that we've reached the end. These matters cannot be made entirely appropriate to all, but I believe that the Committee and those involved in this case have been able to make a positive change in the subject. Then in the fall, we look at these successes and what has come out of this experiment in the summer to build up the long - term coastal fishing system.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u8	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the review of this case. I'll consider the matter better in my speech below, but I'd like to ask you what. A member of the Parliament, whether the High Priest of the Sea Route has planted the committee and what the minister and the Ministry's opinion on this matter is. I don't know that the Minister was here at the Senate Hall for some discussion on this subject. I don't remember seeing him here discussing the matter or participating in it. If I'm mistaken, I'll ask. A senator to correct that. But it is fine that the chairman of the Committee describes to us the position of the minister and the Ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u9	Mr. President. As mentioned above, this is a case presented by the professional committee and the initiative by the professional board. We've been talking about it here at the council, promoting the council and the legislature. It's a good thing things don't come from the executives. Us senators have a right to make a case. That's what we did here, working with a professional committee. A minister has observed this matter very closely and knows how it turns. He trusts the Committee to finish the case. That's the way it goes. A minister has observed the progress of this case. It's on the premeditation of the trade board, where people sit from all categories, a public officer from Upstate. Thus, these efforts have been carried out across groups. A minister knows exactly what this is all about.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u10	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the answer. I wasn't asking who was taking the case. I'm aware of who's moving it. But I'm calling out if the Minister has put the committee before them and simply asks them clearly: Did a sea chief minister come to the committee and discuss his position on this matter? Can the senator's speech be understood as a minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u11	Mr. President. There was no wish on the part of the committee for a minister for the committee. He wasn't called for. But he's been observing this matter, and he knows it very closely. The Ministry has been a member of the Committee to help with the development of the language. I think it's important that we senators look for ways to promote the council. Especially do we see in this government's covenant that it is important to promote the council. I believe this case is one of the typical issues that we want to take in the way of promoting the council. We agreed here at dawn on issues from the state of government, Congress. I believe that we are on the way of changing the II Parliament's way of doing things like this in broad agreement and in the initiative of the employment committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u12	A respectable president. I'm just surprised at the last words made by the senator, but there may be some misunderstandings. I thought it was requested that a minister appear before the committee, at least I think that there were discussions at some point. It is interesting, however, to know that the minister has obviously nothing to do with this matter, neither before the committee nor at the Senate Hall to comment on it. On the other hand, I suppose there was some phone call to the Ministry on the implementation of the other things and all of this. But I read it so that a minister considers it either not important that he get involved or simply follows what is being presented here. Here, the chairman of the Committee spoke of the development of the council. I can't see how this matter contributes to the council. It is certainly brought about by members of Parliaments and members of Parliaments. That's fine. We kind of do it every day, with members of Congress, putting up a matter of Congress. It is not a matter of promoting the council. I believe, however, that the matter may already be in place before the council. I think the work on this case is actually predestinable. Today, less than an hour ago, I had a meeting on a job street committee where the matter was still being changed, where there was a change in proposal to fix it, to do it better than it is today. Just to make it right. Then you're going to accept it in a minute. Is this to improve the work at the General Assembly, to promote the council as much as possible. A senator put it that way? I don't think so. I think this is going to be a business now in some sort of seizure because beach fishing starts on Tuesday, if I remember correctly. It would have been closer, since this is the way to go, to start at least sooner or then just to say, "Stop, let's do it better, let's go on next year." But we've come to this place now that it seems to me that there is a determined will to finish this matter in some way. It is then said immediately that the Party of the Central Party will not vote for this matter. It has also been said at a council hall, or at least it has been reported that this matter should increase the safety of sailors. Maybe I'm just so fucking slow, sorry about the language, Mr. President, but I don't see how this is supposed to improve the safety of sailors. Yes, they have 12 days to choose. But what if the first five days are gone, and then the weather comes well, and the rain comes back in the latter part of the month? Then, of course, people pick up. Men will always pick up, men will always go to the sea to make their own dose. It does not matter whether there are 12 or more days, and it is usually only 30 days a month. I think the situation would have required a much better and more careful job, but it has been obtained, even though I realize that the committee ever put it into place. I also believe that members of the Committee, including members of the Central Committee, were able to do what they could to do on this matter. It makes us not on the red button, let's not say no to the case, because it's filthy. [[For example, the apostle Paul wrote: "I saw, and, look!]] Well, that might be, yeah. The procurator of the Independence Party, that he has written on count, and that makes them the proselytators of the Independence Party, also, by protesting nothing here. However, in the middle of the group, we agree that we are not going to stop this. This is because it has entered this fair fence that a new system of days has not been opened. In fact, I think it's the wet dream behind the committee chairman's case, to create a new parish system on the side of all the other systems. I think that's where the dog's buried. It's something we don't want to see. A respectable president. The point of this entry is to revise that a year, which is now being completed in a seizure just before a person is to begin fishing, shows that it may not have been a conflict but that there is a big difference in the way it should look. It is now that key leaders of the case are on some rescue mission trying to fix it by changing the vote and by trying to change it so that those in their homes in a certain area on April 23, 2018 need to remain or catch out of it. Actually, that's two years of three, and so on. as shown in my new proposal. They're putting this on until the last minute. The case isn't well made, that's my opinion. When a bill on the coastal fishing in the hall was measured here, it was suggested that we were creating some romantic system in which you saw in spirit, in view of the descriptions used here, an old call on a crill that hardly moved onto the ocean to recover from it. That's the picture they drew. Today, however, the system has somehow become trident. There's a lot of romance in it. There are also a lot of professionals in the system. This has created people a job. Just positive. But then there's all the hoodlums. All the pilots and the accountants and the politicians who have some small grats and pick up the same fish that humans are trying to make a living. It's the beach fishing system today. To me, it's a crazy system as it is. During the short time I was a fishing minister, I was very interested in getting my gobblers out of it. Just make it a professional system. If that's what they want. But the system that it is today, the system around it, is not quite good enough. I'm not going through this whole thing. I've already told you how we in the Central Party are going to vote. Of course, that decision is made in agreement with our members of the Committee, so to speak. But I find this example of men who are not promoting the council, an example of how men are weakening the council. It's just the kind of work we're not supposed to do at the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u13	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson into his discussion. I'm one of those who supports this new bill. Hv. A senator says that we are not promoting the council at all, but I must say that I do not agree with it. Even if we needed to talk, which must be natural, when it comes to conversation and finally comes to a vote, we agree to stick together. I don't really know if there are seven members of the Committee or whether we're six; anyway, we're taking this off, not on line, but on this vision. Hv. A senator speaks as if he would prefer to do this; to prefer against us increasing the harvest of cod, double the catch in an ewe to try to meet our sailors. Then he wants it just as it was, it's just pretty clear. What we're talking about right now is that it's four months in the summer. We've been trying to do everything we can to achieve a common landing on the fact that these four areas are equaled, that there will be no race between the areas. In fact, we are eager to see what the outcome will be after the summer. I only wish to all of us Trillas and little boatmen a happy hunting this summer, and I'm so excited to see if they're not here to celebrate this wonderful summer. For example, a person may be allowed to go to sea with some of them and hunt for a cast.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u14	A respectable president. I don't know if there was any question about this nice speech. A senator, but I just want to use this opportunity to correct the senator. I said the Central Party would sit by, not vote with this matter. To make it clear. However, so that I just say it out plain, this ufsabitti, which is being right sailors, won't save anything, won't save anything.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u15	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record. I'm just saying, "Yes, there was no question about this, but now I'll bring her here, 'Do you really want to join me? Why don't we all be friends and see what we can do about this other wonderful summer ahead?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u16	A respectable president. We've wrestled with this bill happily through. We are thrilled to see what comes out of that fall. There's only one thing I'd like to promote here that I would have liked to go a little further along with, though we're naturally doing our best and meeting in the middle of the way that this can be realized, which is exactly what it is. We're double sources from 350 tons to 700 tons. The seaman's value has been increased to 80% by 20%. However, I did not see the danger of having this 100% to the sailor. I felt that it was a source of encouragement for me to make good use of the materials and to bring them to land. Although there are sometimes moderate forces that do not involve hair, we would further ensure that there is no evaporation. It was on that basis and also the fact that we sent a clear message to our sailors: We are all willing to make and want your best. I'm not gonna have any more words about it, except I'm really happy to be involved. As vice-president of the pro board, I'll say again, "Good luck to all of you."
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u17	Mr. President. Now this issue has been on a significant scale, and it has brought considerable stress on it. This is not a person's favorite seed status. Everyone would have liked to see a slightly different conclusion. I think that applies to absolutely everyone. To the extent that I came to this point, the process has been marked by a sudden change of events, one of which had not been discussed before. There's a bit of forced results, lack of data and fallacy, claims that have been absurd. This has stabbed me a little bit. I must admit that I feel very uncomfortable working in an environment where there is a lack of good information and where things are working too fast. Then, naturally, it is very uncomfortable - people are trying to make peace - when it is difficult. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson suddenly shows up and tries to strike down a knight by describing his wonderr over the whole process. True, it has not been perfect, but we have been moving in the right direction. On a professional committee, we may have the right thing to do. And this is important and good try, but there are still faults. They may fail, but they are not great. I believe the results will be good, especially with the changes that we now have. If we do, we will know better and will do better next time. I sure hope this doesn't work out. You see, there are a number of things that are extremely afraid of these changes. When people literally worry about what they're experiencing, it is normal for them to know that there is a measure of dread. The hope is, of course, that this will not only improve the interests of most people, but most of them all. My goal these past few days - I've been up to the boring side of my colleagues sometimes - has been trying to reduce the number of people who need to worry. I think there are very few people who need to worry about this at this moment. Although we've reached a distance, I'm not completely convinced, but I'm almost convinced. That may be the best we can expect. I'd have, just like a what? paritaprevir Sæland Gourand, wanted this evasion rate to have ended in 100%, with a question of a few bucks for a government fund to or from. The difference for state funds, there's so no one. The difference for coastal fishermen is extremely great in some cases. So far, I haven't heard all the reasons why it can't be 100%. I have not heard any arguments, yet I have repeatedly called for them on the committee. Maybe that's a problem. Yet, I've heard very good arguments from just why. paritaprevir Sæland Howland about why this should be 100%, that's exactly to reduce the risk of an outcast. So the evidence for moving this to 100% is there. There's been no evidence that this can't go to 100%. All right. However, this conclusion came from the committee, and that is why I write under the committee's opinion in advance because I think we could have done much better. Despite all of this, you can always complain. I may complain a lot now because it was a very personal matter for me to try to reach the longest. But it's better to do this, not with an attributed 15% increase in fish markets, with a bill that should make a good deal of money next to the uffé; the spell does not count in the main supply; hence, people should be able to get a considerably more valuable fish into that share. There are also other changes made. It's better than standing in place. It has been part of Pirata's first attempt to do everything to promote coastal fishing. I know that other groups have had similar interest. Part of that is developing it in the right direction. I'd like us to leave in the future, and maybe by the end of the fall, to look at the possibility of increased freedom and fewer rules, as there are so many rules in coastal fishing that we can write about that a considerable length of book. However, by moving toward greater freedom, more fear of change may arise in the future. I'm not going to extend it any more, but the hope is, of course, this is going to be very effective for people. In the future, when we continue to make further changes, when we try to keep working on these things, when we try not to be in these modes - take a little more time, look more at the data, work more at peace - maybe a fewer run will be complete.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u18	Mr. President. This is a very special thing. It cannot be accessed in any way except that it is something special. In particular, there is work and contributions - this is not a administrative bill - and then there are changes in a system that was disputed at the time. Since then, it has reached maturity, and it is clear that we live with the system as it is. I've kept my views in order. I want to know that I agree with these changes and will review them afterwards. I'd like to think that I specifically spoke that I had rather chosen - had that opinion at the time, and I haven't changed my view - to have the system simple. I'd rather have one system that everyone would live with and live by the same rules. It's not. We're at least in a dual system. We have the big system, and we have the beach fishing. We then have extra pads or loops that are associated with the settlements. We have the general rural area, which has not been particularly successful in implementing anything. There are suggestions in the Ministry from last year on working with various stakeholders. Since then, there is the more specific localised groundup, which has actually been successful in developing. But evolution has been needed. These are all examples of us having certain churches, extra routes, around the fishing system, which I don't necessarily consider to be exemplary. Our guide should always be sustainable, valuable creation, and we should base our fishing on scientific conclusions and apply them. But this is what it is today. At one time, the coast fishing was approved. There's an excellent experience on that system. They have come under criticism too. I hope the legislature will be clear. I agree with what. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, who discussed the case earlier, said that I am quite opposed to changing our system to the point where it is shifting from being a day - to - day system to the parish. I'm not going to go back to the gang, like it often happened last year, and see some men who had not only sold themselves out of the system but two and three times. I don't think anyone in here wants to go that way. What, then, about these changes? Are they worth taking the beach fishing system further? Yeah, while we're living on the beach fishing system, we'll have to try and develop it. I don't think any senators can avoid listening, and that includes the safe course. The biggest and most important objective of this case is the safety of sailors, that seamen will not be encouraged to go into all kinds of weather because the system does not offer anything else. That puts danger at risk. There's the lawgiver and the committee trying to reach this group. They're meeting the criticisms that came immediately, and I think they were justified, and that was the fear that people would go between areas; that men were going to take a turn. That is what should not happen, that one should act in this way, and the committee tries to meet it and is trying to close the gap between compartments so that each area becomes a place for itself. They have been met with the critical voices. To begin with, the value and value of coastal fishing was not necessarily the best product; not necessarily the best way to care for and how to get rich. On the other hand, the system has learned to shape and develop better care so that the product is growing, the value is increasing. The most important thing to do is to get as much money as possible for every kilo that's dropped onto the land. This trend is positive, and we must not lose sight of the demand for valuables in the fishing world, which has actually gone wonderfully well over the years, including some of them. Because we have clear rules. Hv. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy said: This is not someone's favorite work here today. No, but it may not be that we are doing this just to do something. The result must be better than the system in today's coastal storms. Is it? I think so. I think those steps are the points. I'm not necessarily happy with the system that's here, but it's better than the present system. There, the head of the professional trade committee has exerted himself. It is true to guess - now we hear that there are differences in viewpoints within the Central Party - that there are differences in viewpoints within our context of whether or not we should be at the head of this issue because of various viewpoints, including some of them. The one I've been tracking here. We want simplicity. We want more than anything else, it's a big matter for us that, eventually, a fair price will be paid for the access to the resource. However, this small matter, large to some, suggests that we members of different categories, with different opinions within the classes, can come to conclusions on matters related to the seaways. If we exert ourselves, we can reach a conclusion. Maybe it's Pollýanna in me that grabs this Haldrify: Yes, this council and this election season can be in our reach of the reconciliation that is so important to the big system. If there is a real agreement to become the object of the nation's fishing grounds, we can say: If it makes its effort, a certain viewpoint may be taken, not entirely, but the goals we need to have are near. Here, the goal was a sailor's security. In the big system, it has to be the nation's interests. There we are to unite in that purpose and work. I'm sorry to find out today that there is nothing that comes from the government, nothing that comes from the government class, not one indication of how to settle the ocean's resource. The government has been working for several months now. A political committee was set up to try to achieve that goal, trying to make peace with all of us on the basis of our resources. But as far as this is concerned, there is still no voice from the government. I'd like to encourage her to use summer, and I'd like to suggest how she's going to approach that big affair. If this is not done, then in time there will be a far greater disunition of the large system we now build on the fishing grounds. The big system is really good, I've done it a million times. But there is no need for this reconciliation, a fair price, a clear price, for the nation's resources. Well, I tend to agree with a lot of things. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson's son - sometimes, so I'll go for it. [[Up front.]] Yeah, I hear you, I'll be fine. I agree with him that the system we're discussing here, the beach fishing system, is not necessarily the best and ideal, but we're living with it; and I agree with certain criticisms that were presented there. The other is that he spoke of the council's tactics, but I disagree with him. I participated in the Committee's work, and I saw how her chairman tried to get different viewpoints, tried to speak into different viewpoints, and applied himself to them. I had a conversation with her last year when I was a sea chief and I know it well. Opinions vary greatly within the Independence Party - I know that there are a number of corrosive dissatisfactions there - but there were also many who came to me, including. with a base. A senator of his day, and try to say: "How can we meet the marine safety issues in the coastal fishing business? Can we agree to meet this understandable view regarding the safety of sailors in coastal fishing? It couldn't be done. Now we've got a what? A senator took the ball and it's fine. I want to support her in it, though she knows well, even though people know well, that I'm not necessarily full of baloney jumping around with all this. On the basis of the available data, on the basis of the legal environment we already live in, and need to be modified, I think I should take these steps. It's been met with the fear that there was been a stray, that's not what it's been doing. There is also a particular experiment about the envelope that I find interesting; to see if we're going to reassign by increasing resources to sailors to get him ashore, they get 80%, 20% go to Capero through funds. That's interesting to me. What matters is that we set a time frame. We set a time frame that has a pattern on us, a whip in the Fish Room, a whip in the Ministry and the Merro, to make the assessment that we'll probably get on December 1, later this year, to examine them completely impartially, all of whom are here, how we can make the system better. That's when the questions come up. Were these changes working? We'll have to face it, too, if the system has been compromised. Fighters must also accept the responsibility of not playing with the system. It will require turmoil, even here at the council. The responsibility of all of us in this is great. I want us to realize that when Fish Room and the Government will introduce this experiment, which we are about to enter - this is an attempt to see if the Council can do better - then we must also be ready to discuss whether another system is better and better than the arrangement we are putting on here today. So it is a time frame, it is a whip, it has been listened to criticism, and it has been successful. I would like to thank and thank them especially for the Chairman of the Committee, as soon as I understand certain indications that have been presented in this matter. But this is interesting.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u19	Madam President. It has been mentioned in the discussion on this matter that there are some differences in viewpoints in the council. Perhaps there's evidence that I and the last speaker, the Þorgerður Katrín of Gunnarsdóttir, did not agree completely on this matter, so I wanted to say a little. I am deeply concerned about how this case has been lived, and in reality, the way people take the beach fishing. After considering the matter as it happened in 2nd, I do not have any conviction. and with the changes presented here, that there is taking steps to benefit the management of coastal fishing. I agree that it is of utmost importance that the beaches are well cared for and that it succeeds in developing this system with the safety of sailors, but more than anything as fundamental in our fishing regime, which is the sustainable management of fishing and the profity fishing, of which, of course, has been quite difficult in the coastal seas, as it would like to be. I'm going to review my main concerns not too far to speak. In fact, I was disappointed by the criticism presented at 2 Corinthians. on how little fixes are done on the system. First, it is the government of the fish. It seems to me that once the maximum forces are reached, the control of the fish is being cut off and the sources are being stopped. As far as I can see, that's the direct objective, including... by moving the closing authority from Fish Room to Minister, creating a hairy, vague region about when to stop fishing. This means that there is a possible overfishing in the system and significant sources are still being added. I don't think it takes a lot of complicated extrapolation in this to see, if we just look at the average number of boats that were in the system in the last year, if we grossly developed it, to provide, although being added to them, could be raised in the third month. Then there will be considerable pressure on the minister. Should the fishing stop with a month or more until the final season, or should it greatly increase? I don't feel that it's in the spirit of our main theme in a fishing operation on sustainable fishing management, and it's very clear how we're leading our fishing. Yet, it is one thing that had succeeded in controlling the fishing system as it was, closing the season's resources at the end of each month's records. It seems to me there's a great deal of disposal, and there's a significant risk that there's going to be a substantial improvement in fishing clearances. I'm also a little worried that another pressure in this area will be just another attack, that's obvious. There is a series of preliminary warnings about actually banning new registration into new territory today, which I feel, first of all, is contrary to the spirit of the beach weather that is free to hunt. I wondered why on earth we are taking the step of closing the areas in this form of temporary closure. Second, and what may be more important is that we have no experience in what may be the major change in this arrangement, that boats will likely search between areas, but we are just going to shut it down in experimental activity for a year and then evaluate the results of the change in autumn. This aspect of the system during this experiment period will not be tested. As a result, we cannot determine how it develops. That is why I find it a very peculiar arrangement for me to go to such a preliminary display in order to deal with one obvious defect in the arrangement that is being recorded here. I have to say, as it is, I don't have much conviction that this will work as planned, i.e. to improve the safety of sailors. The church system simply promotes this Olympic fishing, as it has been described here. It's always the danger of the parish system, it's just the arrangement we have in such a system. I think the only way to deal truly with the safety of sailors would have a different system of coastal fishing, which would be more based on local markets or such. It's a whole other system, and it calls for counter-revision. In short, I don't think there's much more to do here. I agree with what. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson that this might even cause the council to fail at the end of the day. It's being overworked on too short notice, and it's too light on the flaws, the serious flaws, that are on the system that my system knows. I'm afraid we're simply developing the beach fishing in the wrong direction, considering what we should be doing in order to ensure the sustainable fishing and at the same time, the security of sailors and goods. Therefore, I do not rely on this matter to support myself.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u20	A respectable president. I agree with what. Councilmen who have wondered about the tactics we've seen about this bill. It is cast into the committee, and it comes back so hard with some sort of change and in and out again and through adjustments. However, it is not so bad that there is something good in it. Of course, I'd be glad to hear about the change, and there'd been a lot of talk in the speaker's chair that it didn't seem that fishermen really fished for the State and could hardly get paid for it. It's been completely fixed, up to 80%, and I'm celebrating it. Certainly, I welcome other things in this bill, e.g. if you are going to increase your coastal environment, whether you increase to 10,200 tons or more than 11,000. There is an increase of 1,000 or 2,000 tons, depending on the incident. I'd like to discuss a little beach service in general because of the recommendation of individual senators on the magnitude of this dinner. When they get to the point, I just want to point out a few numbers I have about him. In 2011, there was less than 4.2% of the total population, below 4%, and since then, all these years, these seven years, were less than 4%, and it was last year, about 3.6,3.8%. Based on the fact that the dinner had always been 4.2% during that seven - year period, the ocean fishing fleet has been reduced by over 9,000 tons, actually one fishing year in the coastal winter. On the contrary, it's a good thing to think that there's an even higher level of coast fishing going on. On the contrary, I think it's a good thing we're giving in now and we could give it a little bit better. We agree on that. I'm also happy if it's time to increase the safety of sailors as suggested in this bill, i.e. have more days per month, 12 days per month. But it is not all that seems to be the case, considering that the fleet's parish has been over 12 days, except in region A because it has been completed in a shorter period of time. Other areas have had to work harder. I'm here with an answer from a sea emissary to Bjarni Jónsson's question earlier in the winter on this point, and it shows that in B, C, and D areas, the days of coastal fishing were 16, 17 and 18 days throughout the last summer. The number of parish days is reduced by four to six. Area A, in fact, stands out because last year's parishes were eight in August, 8 in July, and ten in June. In that area, therefore, the number of parish days is increasing. I'm happy if the beach fishermen can have more days to get to the sea, but I'm not happy if they're going to cut the quanan in other areas at the expense of one. Summer estimates of fishing are interesting, and they also reveal some of them. I'm here with a pill, an encore with the bill, about the estimated fishing of the beach fishing fleet over 48 days, i.e. 12 days a month for four months, and then it becomes evident by the same number of boats from last year to the date that the last year's attendance would be 5,000 tons in region A, less than 2,000 in regions B and C and less than 1,200 tons in region D. What does this mean to the figures from last year? That means the catch in region D drops 330 tons. In section C, we're losing 360 tons of hunting. In B sector, we're losing 240 tons of hunting. In area A, the hunt increases by nearly 1,400 tons, and it has reached almost 50% of the coastal coasts. In the coming summer, if this works - these are plans - it will be about 50% but it had a third last year. Of course I'm glad people can catch more, but I don't want anyone else to be hurt. There'll be fewer days in the D area, huh? Senator, less days than last year. That's 12 a month, that was 18 a year. Of course, I don't like this. I don't like it if the bill's objective is to bring 50% of the hunting into area A to the other areas. Final assessments will change the completion of local registration. Is that supposed to be a celebration? Or are these some kind of restriction? They may want to be rescued and to go where they go most, to fill the boat very quickly, to be entertained, to enjoy the best weather, and to make a better weather on some beach, when they are shut away from there to survive. There are both benefits and defects. Of course, it's possible to keep humans from jumping between areas and making miles from their homes, I understand that. I'm asking about the big ones. What is the safety of increasing total activities? Mr. Secretary is not here in the hall. I miss it, I think he could answer the best part of it all. I agree with what. Senator Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson of the fact that a minister has not been involved in this case with me. It would be interesting to hear what he says about this dinner and when he's going to shut down the system if he's finished, as I may have spoken most. If the dinner runs out in July, will it be added? How much? What's safe? Will it be closed at the end of July, or will it be extended? Will individual areas be closed, which I consider to be easier to prevent some from catching up at expense? ' There is a lot of talk about broken - down areas, Mr. President, which brings to mind that no matter how this works, we also need to consider how this affects the settlements. In my opinion, it is a worthy subject to research how the last ten years of coastal fishing have been affected on the basis of the country's population, especially the less stocked and fragile. Has it been studied? Are these locals who are fishing from their homes, or are they some kind of circuit, some adventurers from the urban area that may temporarily move to shore, perhaps having a bearing on these areas for a long time? Has it been studied? I believe it is worthy of research to find out what the Coastal Effects really are. I know that they have many positive effects and are not going to reduce them at all, but what is the long - term effect on very small settlements? I'd like to know. For the fishing itself, the Olympic fishing system or not, I believe, Mr. President, with full respect for many of the good things in this bill it is made that way because it is a parish, that it is over, especially when the summer passes and becomes at one end of the labour market, that it changes to what none of us want, to some kind of unmuted fishing, men speed up the tickets to get to the last days and the last three. Although I'm doing the whole bill, I see various baits on it, as I've mentioned here. I have mentioned most of them, and because of them, despite its advantages, I cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u21	Madam President. I had to run down and get some data to make sure that I was right before I corrected myself. A senator, so I'm a little mother. Hv. A senator said half of the labor would catch on region A, but now we have real numbers from e.g. 2017 and, in fact, more years here, just back to the time when the beach fishing system was recorded, and it is certainly true that more tons will accumulate in area A, 3,699 tons last year for the estimated 9,800 tons. That may sound like a full bite, but if you look more closely, it's about 37% of the total. Then, if you look at the number of boats in area A, it is exactly 37% of the total boat fleet. It may be perfectly normal for this distribution. The volume of per area cannot be watched if overlooking the number of boats per area. In fact, in 2017, boats were 227 in area A, 135 in area B, 126 in region C, and 106 in region D. The number has declined amongst years, this system has been reduced. I hope it only turns around and becomes what it was like, for example. 2012, when we had 759 boats in this system, but it's certainly important that we not confuse the discussion by pretending that this is some kind of Promised Land in West Fjords in area A. There's certainly a great hunt, but to the region D was assigned out by other factors. [[The president calls.]] I think they've been hurt a lot because of the utilities.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u22	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthyr for the counter. Even if it's the right thing to do. As far as a senator can see, 5,100 tons are more than a third of 10,200 tons. My child's school education was that 5,000 are the half of 10,000. The next summer's estimates for the next round of the region A are 5,080 tons. The estimated total capacity for the summer is 10,237 tons. These are the numbers. As far as I can see, it's more than a third.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u23	Madam President. The problem with these numbers is that it's completely unclear where it comes from. True, 5,000 is half of 10,000, but it doesn't change the figure 5,000 and 10,000 are wrong. It is now assumed that the total pot will sound up on just over 11,000 tons, provided that it runs after a Regulation transfer of 1,000 tons from the line-link I expect to stand at the highest level. Secretary of the sea has promised. It remains that even if you expect some dramatic increase, we must look at how the trend has been going on. Perhaps one of the main reasons why my attitude was softened in this matter - I have statistics in front of me. I've been sitting pretty tired of calculating, and I can't see that this day of doom is going to pass. If this number, 5,000 tons, comes from some normal calculation or predicts, it would be nice to hear how they predict, who calculated it and on what basis, because it could well be some new numbers for me. Maybe you're right, but the criteria need to be followed. The figures I have in my possession are obtained from the Land Association of Submarines and Fish Service, so I think they must be quite correct. Perhaps there is a better projection, though.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u24	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Of course I feel better about it. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy figured it out. I know that he is careful and will not let himself be distracted unless he is convinced and, of course, I feel better about it. I'm simply quoting the figures in a follow-up card with the bill from the Committee itself, which says in Table 1: ▪ Estimated the power of coastal fishing boats, compared with 48 days conditions. This is just what I'm talking about. It shows that approximately 50% of the harvests land in area A. If this has changed in the treatment of the Committee, like the driving force. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson showed me here a moment ago, it in itself is another matter. I'll repeat what I said earlier. I miss the highest. The minister of the sea is not participating in the discussion, either now or in the 1st. or 2nd about. I miss him convincing us, who, of course, are unsure about a number of things in this bill, about what he'll do in the summer when it may be time to stop the fish.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u25	A respectable president. I just want to say something. The goal of this matter is to ensure the safety of sailors or to improve the safety of sailors. I can't see that these changes, which are being set here, serve that role. The safety of sailors will hardly be guaranteed by changing the number of application days. Like what? paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason has pointed out that some areas are actually reducing their numbers compared with what has been going on in recent years. If we are concerned about increasing the security of sailors, it would be closer to that bill to follow some kind of guidance or rules about when you can get the water, e.g. In the form of weather minimisation; what boats, what sizes, or what equipment they have to fetch from certain bets. The scheme mentioned here that they were to, in order to improve the tactics of the council - I don't see it either. The above discussion seems to aim to try to reach a decision on who can hunt how much in each area and when and more in the direction of pushing a so - called Olympic Fish. I'll join my platoon brother. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson's son, that there's no way of promoting the council. Us senators are supposed to be a real problem, and we're supposed to finish this kind of thing and not be getting pushed into a time pressure.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u26	A respectable president. I come here mainly to correct the chairman of the Committee that said no one had asked for a sea emissary to appear before the committee. I got it. paritaprevir The Sigurður over Páll Jónsson, who is in the line of duty in his district, asked for a sea emissary to appear before the committee, so to speak. Surely, then, we must describe our disappointment by not being followed by a minister's failure to arrive. It is wrong for the chairman of the Committee not to ask for these fine ministers to appear before the committee. It is interesting, however, during this discussion that very little is heard from members of the council. You have the feeling that there are all sorts of opinions on this matter, but you seem to have been silenced somehow. You miss something when you don't hear some powerful senators express yourself.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u27	A respectable president. The 2nd. I called for changes that could lead to the confusion, the confusion, and the uncertainty of the changes presented here. Uncertainty is much, especially for the fragile, the weakest that may need this system. It is crystal clear in the discussion of the 3rd issue. The issue of uncertainty and the degree of doubts that humans may have. Even men who support this issue come to the realization that this uncertainty exists, as shown in the previous talks. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthyr. He said: "Everyone wanted to see the matter differently. There is a possibility of a failure. I hope you don't. The case is full of both ◯ef and evenski. It is not an acceptable, dignified president to declare such changes in this case with such short notice, especially under the circumstances where there is a considerable increase in available resources. They've never been more than that. [[The president calls.]] It would have been possible to create here in the country and at a convention a great deal of reconciliation over changes that would have benefited everyone.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u28	A respectable president. We take steps here in coastal fishing. Although we do not take all the steps today, we continue to take on the security of Coastal fishermen. But we take an important step. We are also showing that the system is flexible. We're taking hunting warrants that should've been going to line up, about a thousand tons of cod, and we're going to take it to beach fishing so they don't fall down. We're showing that the system is working and we're taking important steps forward. We need to take further steps. We will take them in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u29	Mr. President. We vote for the beach fishing bill, which is a big issue in the minds of many people living in sealands wide and wide around the country. I have observed coastal fishing from the beginning, and I have seen that they have had a positive influence on the marine waters. I've been scared from the beginning because of the forces in the system to the Olympic hunts. There's been an accident, and what has driven me on an attempt to get senators on the contrary to me on this project is primarily the safety of the sailors. The flexibility and other factors that have been identified as having to be in this article so that we can develop the system, take up the situation in the fall, assess the experience, and establish a good system permanently. The experience we receive in summer helps us to decide to vote here. On the contrary, I hope a body of Congress agrees with a group to support this good case. Happy summer, beach fishermen. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u30	Mr. President. I haven't been to Congress in a long time, but I haven't seen anything of no risk yet. There was a huge risk in the LS case about the year as well as in other matters. There's certainly some risk here, but I think it's been minimized quite a bit. The point is, I feel pretty comfortable with it. I would have, of course, wanted us to go further on a number of factors, but I'm not afraid of the consequences of this bill. I think it'll be fine. Experience will then reveal something. We look forward to seeing the results, but the point is, of course, that we could have done better. We would have, for example. ... cangoto 100%oftheUfs rules. I had no argument against going that way. It's still enough for now, it's at least Just a step forward, and we're going to enjoy that step. Then we'll take some more steps later. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u31	A respectable president. We're finishing a discussion on a bill to correct the changing of fish control laws. This is a small change in the big context, but each quick step to reroute a single system is a success for the common people. It has been suggested that the Conspiracy represents much more radical, general, and fairer changes in this legal environment. We will continue that discussion. Reasonableness and justice are far from our own. A respectable president. Coastal fishing has been an important factor in meeting the views of those who feel the need for changes in the fishing system in order to ensure the public's share in the fishing and thus to profit from a common resource. Coastal fishing has brought life in the coastal regions around the country, and it is good and joyful. This brief, brief change will contribute to the growth and joy of some throughout the country, and we will take it out and evaluate the experience in the autumn.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u32	Mr. President. I would like to recommend a synonym of a change in the synopsis of no. 23/145, the Code for the Generals. The proposal is made by the presidents of the Generals and members of the Parliament who serve as hearing agents on the Presidency Committee. The proposal involves the response of members of the Parliament to the open discussion that has taken place in Icelandic society, including political ones, on sexual abuse and harassment within them. Before I acknowledge the proposal, I'd like to emphasize that in the current ethic, the main theme of the Code is that members of the Parliament are elected to the Generalis to work for the interests of the common people. The Code is also designed to promote the markets of the Generals and their responsibilities, as well as their belief and trust in the public at the General Assembly. This includes promoting the healthy working environment of the National Committee and at the same time that members of the Parliament respect their work, their fellow soldiers, their opponents, and others involved in their field of work and with those with whom members of the Parliament interact in their non-consistency. It is, therefore, natural and justified in view of the demands that in the ethics of the Generals, it is stated the principle that members of Congress commit themselves to contribute to creating a healthy working environment within a assembly that is free of sexual harassment, harassment, and other incompetent conduct. At the same time, it is the duty of each member of the council to reject such practices and that members of the Parliament do not treat other members of the council, employees, or visitors with sexual harassment or any form of violence or other disrespectful conduct. Although the Council is not a traditional workplace that puts under the control of a certain employer, goals responsible for equality and work protection laws are as good as allowing people to do their job without the risk of sexual harassment and thus promoting a safe and healthy environment, as well as for the general members and members of the Parliament and others. So there is clear evidence to explain how to prevent and react to sexual harassment at the General Assembly, as well as at normal work places. The proposal, however, does not limit such behavior to the Generals' housing, but applies to conduct wherever members of the council are working, including that. has meetings outside of the Generals as well as those within the country and outside. The proposal suggests that after the c-line, 1st.mg. Section 5. The code of ethics prompts new stipulations that representatives of the ethic are seeking to create a healthy environment within the council, as well as everywhere, where they do their jobs where any sexual or sexual harassment, harassment, or other disrespectful conduct is rejected. It is also suggested that the part of the moral code that deals with conduct should be followed by a new article that does not treat other members of the council, members of the council, or visitors sexually or sexually harassed, harassed, or treat them in any other disrespectful manner. The aim of the change is to make it clear that the current standards of the Generals are intended to promote a safe and healthy environment within the council, where all forms of harassment, sexual, or sexual harassment, and other disrespectful conduct are definitely rejected. When referred to the conduct of a senator to other members of the council, members of the Generals, and visitors in his work at the General or on the behalf of his representatives. In the case of the proposal, the rules of the Presidency Committee on Management and Management of Opportunities are expected to be revised and agreed on the basis of this work. Finally, it is suggested that following its approval, the Presidency Committee should include changes to current ethical standards and then publish them on the General web. I propose, chief. President, proceeding after the discussion to the management and monitoring committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u33	A respectable president. It's the finest council proposal, but I have a few questions. At first, I ask about transporters. Isn't this proposal made by a prime committee? Then I wondered why all the names are listed instead of prime committees as such. We looked it up because it caught my attention. Since a prime committee has previously presented a case called the Presidency Committee, I do not fully understand why all the names of the presiding committees are listed. There's something else. It's a new assembly and new senators. In the past, it has been noted that when a new assembly takes over, a new council and new senators need to submit to a moral code, not just sign it as it was. did now. There must be a certain induction procedure. People need to work on understanding and accepting the code of ethics. Third, do we hesitate to respond to moral violations? I think that's a really big question. That's what matters, not just that there are moral standards, but that they are followed and that something happens when it is not applied. I think that's a bit of a big question. What happens, and how do we react to offenses, especially with regard to this addition? This is a discussion that I think we need to take. She's very serious.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u34	Mr. President. As for the transporters, they are, as I thought they were in my background speech, all the prime committees, and the audience members of the classes who do not have a seat on the Committee to Presidency. That is why the names are listed, transporters are more than presidents, and vice presidents, which are said to be nine o'clock. Councilmen who serve as prime committees and audience members. Second, what's wrong. Of course, when changing the rules, there is something right and obliged to be discussed. Obviously it is assumed that all new members of the council who have not previously attended a council and who have not previously signed ethical rules will do so when they sit down. Similarly, if there is a change in the rules, it is best to introduce them and publish them again. The question, then, is, Is it true that everyone resupplys the rules, since their content has changed? That's exactly what I've been thinking about asking a board of administration and surveillance to review some of these features, including whether it's not the monopolize to make it more indistinguishable that all members of the General Assembly should study and sign the rules of ethics as soon as they sit down. In other words, that means just reviewing the rules, e.g. Recontractors when they enter. Regarding the third point, the code of morality in this regard is very clear. If the Council's Committee for Presidentship argues on relevant violations of ethical principles that meet the requirements for such action, i.e. Explaining the alleged offense, he argues that it took place, the presiding committee is obliged to consider it. But it is certainly in her hands what the outcome of the matter will be, whether it is further referred to the advisory committee or how it will be resolved. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u35	A respectable president. For a new council and new senators, I need to reiterate this. Signing a code even if it is totally unchanged is not enough. Studying them is not enough. It was noted in the discussions we had earlier at this council that there is a tendency to participate in the conduct of ethics. Although the code of ethics is established when new members come in, they must go through the learning process from the beginning to take part in the matter. It's not enough just to sign. Hv. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson used his search program to consult the Senate, and he found a case from the Presidency Committee, where all members of the Parliament and then representatives of the Presidency Committee are printed. This was specifically presented in a paper, but the prime committee gives the subject. But these are just formalities. For dealing with offenses, there is no problem. A carrier that requires an alleged violation to be passed to the Presidency Committee. A fracture has also to be identified, but it may not be known exactly where the fracture is or who caused it. It may be a request to examine the Presidency Committee because the availability of data is so limited that no accurate fraction or accurate fracturer can be identified. [[The president calls.]] I think there's also something that needs to be taken into account because the examples show it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u36	Mr. President. Regarding the introduction of transporters, you can simply visit the Generals website and check that the person here is speaking and speaking. Councilmen of Guðjón the son of Brjánsson Brján, Braunzur the Brynjar of Níelsson, Þörstein the Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson, Þórunn Egilsdóttir, Jón Þór the Ólafsson of Ophaph, and Bárdís, the Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir, appoints for the Council of the Council. Hv. The members of the Þorsteinn Víglundsson and Sæland Goiland are members of their audience members of the Presidency Committee. I think there's a valid statement on the case that the members of that council, in the power of their office there, their names on this proposal. In terms of the possibility of taking a case on the presiding committee, the ethical code itself is clearly clear in that regard. I think the easiest thing to do is to refer to them yourself. If there is a doubt in these matters, I think that the case referred to in the committee would be allowed to have the doubt. Men would at least Whether the relevant information is available for discussion. This certainly has proved true in the past. I don't think there has yet to be any experience that the prime committee is pushing aside that there are unconcerned indications or matters that are referred to.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u37	Mr. President. I'm not gonna take long into my mouth on this matter. I would like to express my deep satisfaction with this adjustment or improvement. I'm in a place similar to what I'm doing. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, on the conduct of the rules, and on the other wing; I am more occupied with the way we avoid the broken but exactly what the wood code is. Moral rules are exactly what they are, ethical principles, and such guidance on conduct. I'm just going to ask for an assembly, which is the first council that, if this is to be agreed upon, will have these guiding rules to guide us, to work together in creating a coolness that makes us not to worry about the follow-up because we are acting in a way that is being recommended by these rules. It is for us to set an example for us to follow them. That is how we stand our responsibility in promoting the interests of the public. It has been discussed in the past few weeks, and it has certainly been shown for months, thus working on the public interest.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u38	Mr. President. Well, that's really right, isn't it? A senator's view of these rules is that we hope that we will seldom try, and never, of them. I also agree with that, and perhaps in the past I could have added it to a previous answer, that it is important to introduce the rules and that they are all involved. It is not enough to push down his name to the point that the problem is solved without knowing the contents of the rules. Rather, we need to make sure that everyone is asleep. Councilmen are well informed about the rules, know them, and are introduced, and have been reviewed according to events regularly. Now it is obvious that since they come into existence, the presentation is part of the presentation that new senators are receiving at the beginning of each terms when they attend the great course of the state of Congress, or what it is now called. But there is also the matter of doing better. It was happening here, in our excellent discussions earlier in the winter, when we had the barbershop event here, and on this point scholars have stressed that the rules need to be alive in the minds of those who work for them. Then there is more hope to do so, or it is not to be put to the test.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u39	Mr. President. Thank you very much. This introduction, and I wholeheartedly agree and reiterate what I say, that I have the expectation that this change, and its introduction and introduction, will lead us to create here the culture that the Presidential Assembly of Iceland will be responsible for these matters rather than to follow.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u40	A respectable president. First, I want to express great joy in the fact that this matter has been presented. This is an important step in the way we need to proceed in order to ensure a decent work environment for men and women in the Generals wall. I'd like to go back to my last year. You see, I think Iceland and I are pretty proud that there's an equality beyond that in many countries. We were at the beginning of our last year, one of the countries in which the proportion of women was the highest within the world council. There were 48% of senators here, and then we set world record last year. We were the State that lost the proportion of most women from all those who chose to be members of the council in 2017. We lost six women over a council, leaving 48% to 52% to the fact that there were only 38% women here. That's the situation that came to us after the election. In the fall of the year, independent of anything else, called for some action within the council. Although it hadn't been for the #metoo wave, we would have had to face the circumstances within the council to make sure that this oversupervising of members of the Council would not be the result of the job in the panels, the job in the side halls, the job we have to work together, coloring some of this curious gender ratio. It is worth noting that the International Parliament's Association, which covers these statistics, also points out that there is a clear link between the sex ratio within the council and other polymorphisms. We'll see, for example. In the fall of the year, we also lost both members of the Parliament who had an immigrant background. We now have only one member of the Senate at 30 years of age. In fact, this is the same ratio of young senators and, on average, globally, something we should try to do better. Shortly after elections took place in the fall, political appeals came from women who have been involved in political activity that they resented sexual violence, harassment, and various forms of indignious conduct within the council and elsewhere in politics. So we are likely to fail, and to this end we stayed here at a council, such as an authorityman mentioned, a barbershop, where we all sat together and discussed how to revise work conditions here. Part of the yield can be seen in existing protocols. Then let me mention a third point that appeared in the letter of the Synod committees, which was part of the reaction here in the fall, and that is to map and evaluate the extent of the crisis within the walls. It is important that we be able to ensure the safety of all the important things at work. But because this has been the importance of being well informed about ethics and familiar with them, I'd like to mention an interview with Vilhjálmur Árnason that I saw the other day in Silfrina, not skunk. A senator thinks so. A philosopher, where he was asked to work expenses and discussions about them in the community. He pointed to the barber shop that we had then used as a fine example of how a unity, such as the Allied Council, should adopt a moral code or take up rules that apply to the people who themselves are going to work under it. This was a very useful day, not just because of what came out of him, but because it's a methodology that I think the council should use much more often. When it comes to reevaluating ethics, it is not always enough to add two articles to deal with certain problems as we are doing now, but regularly to have a conversation like we did with the barbershop, where we will discuss all the protocols and how we want to conduct our jobs at the council so well, as we will discuss employment expenses or what it is, anything that might bring down on the job within the General Assembly wall, a loss of confidence and confidence in this institution. These are things that are very fertile to discuss in a similar way, and we have made changes in the ethical principles we discuss here. I'd like to suggest to the prime committee that she has behind her ear during the next year, perhaps in the middle of the term, perhaps at the end of the term, whether it would be unwise to keep another barbershop where we are going. over how it has been achieved to introduce the code of ethics following the #methoo revolution, but also how the other aspects of the code work, whether we need to improve it further. I would like to agree with what the previous speakers have mentioned in their talks. Now we are responding to pleas to take up the rules and respond to them, but then the next step is the courage to respond when a situation conflicts with our new rules. There I wish the prime committee of all the best things to do and to have the courage needed to deal with difficult issues in the complex work environment at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u41	Mr. President. I'd like to use this opportunity to celebrate the proposal being presented. I think it's a very good step in the right direction, and I think it's important that this is discussed in just the norm. Everywhere in the world has been a great awakening to sexual violence and harassment, under the mill #metoo, and it has also happened here. This awakening is designed to bring the violence to light, the violence that has been in the dark, and now it is to come. This is also part of changing civilizations in that sexual violence and harassment will no longer be tolerated. How important it is that the Allied Council of Iceland, although this is not an ordinary workplace, participates in this, especially because sexual violence and harassment have been used to keep women under the political force effectively! A second hundred accounts of women, political women, who appeared last November, related their own history of violence and discrimination that they had had to endure. At the same time, men were required to shoulder responsibility and to settle matters within the political parties. It's been done within the United States, and I don't know any better than other political parties are doing the same. As a result, hundreds of accounts from various parts of society were published where women came out and related their own stories. It's a serious damage to the community that they pulled out of there. The #metoo revolution has to go on. They need to encourage the trend and make sure it doesn't go back to the same way, so we've actually taken steps to change our society and not let such violence go down. Of course, it is also true of mobbing and other disrespectful actions, such as those cited in these suggestions. Mr. President. I welcome this step. I know we haven't finished this job, I know we're keeping it awake. I hope that all of us are united in this hall that sexual violence and harassment have recently been used to keep women under such circumstances, that it is over, and that we are making society a better place in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u42	Mr. President. First, I want to thank you for these suggestions for changing the rules of ethics for the Generals. I think we're taking an important step towards better practice. I also think that we are showing the public, the whole population and the world, that we are very serious about our meeting, the barbershop meeting, by our attitude against sexual violence, which we have truly wanted to send from us publicly, both in government matters as well as in social organizations. I think it really matters that there's a clear message from the council that such behavior, such as this, is not over. But there are a few things I think important that we talk here. In that case, perhaps first the way we are going to deal with these standards. If there's a violation of ethics, what? We recently received GRECO's report on defenses against corruption. This latest report covers the highest executive executives of the European Commission as well as the police. It discusses the rules of ethics for these two parties. One of both indications i.e. The chief executives of the European Commission as well as the police, it is important that the implementation of the protocols in the presence of these two sites is important and that the repair system is not in accordance with protocols. I think it's a very important thing, even here at the council. Because the code of morality cannot be ignored if it is ignored or ignored. The Code of the Code as they appear today is more related to this kind of interest. They're trying to make sure that when they're here on their jobs, they're guarding the interest of the public, not of any special interests, that they don't accept payment or gifts for their work here, etc. All of this is worth the effort. However, this change is being made clear. I think a board of administrations and monitoring committees must deal with this, too, in a slightly wider format, i.e. Just the whole attitude. Of course, there are people around here who disagree about various things. But manners need to be observed, being careful not to display violent conduct. Because violent behavior can be directed toward all genders, manifest itself as physical violence, or simply frightening behavior. In words, too. I think we need to look into this a little bit in the wider context. This disrespectful behavior, sexual violence, it's all up to you. This is a very positive step, but I think we'll always have to talk about it from a slightly wider angle, i.e. In word and deed, in demeaning conduct. I wondered about this with a code of ethics referred to in Parliaments' Code, this board of ethics mentioned in 15th. g., whether or not she's ever come together, whether or not a case that has been handled by the Committee of Moral Affairs. It is not easy for those employed here, whether by members of the council, staff, or guests, to feel that the code of morality is more an alibi than just a bridge. I wondered if there were really issues. There is a considerable number of people who work here at the council and outside the council that is dealing with members of the council. I think we'd both like to introduce the Code to members of the council who are here and have a good discussion about them, but also to introduce them to other members of the council. Even they get to eat the table of this work so that they will be able to discern the moral principles that we members of the Parliament have committed to us to follow. Or I'll say, "I'm celebrating this most generous contribution." I think we're setting a very good example here, and I'm looking forward to dealing with this work.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u43	Mr. President. For GRECO, they are certainly discussed in their latest view of ethical rules, such as the highest authority of the European Commission, law enforcement, and courts, all the way in the way of the police. This report was not in itself on the legislation; it is an earlier 2014 report. GRECO's comments have always been addressed and reviewed. We will do so in this case too. Actually, it's working with two of GRECO's older indications from a previous report that hopefully look at the rules of interest registration, etc. Of course, regarding the current ethics of the Parliament, the presence and post-traumatic period, it was much discussed when the current Parliamentary code was prepared and placed in place and in line to some extent adopted from the European Parliament in Strasbourg City that the penalty is essentially in detail and the results of a follow-up or follow-up to the European Parliament. This, of course, involves the history of the special recruitment relationship of elected representatives with their clients. Hadn't I said it? I believe there is reason to review these comments, too, in this context. Has the Office of Moral Affairs, or the Advisory Committee for Presidency and Ministry, met? Yes, it has, but it was to give us a review of this change in ethical order. It was put together and assembled for the first time to give us a review of this proposal, and it gave us helpful tips that we made our own. [[The president calls.]] But it has not been activated yet. I'm just saying, fortunately, there has not been an attempt for her to take for an alleged offense.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u44	Mr. President. Thank you very much. President of Congress for the answers. It's the one with the wood that's pretty complicated. Wherever there's a code of ethics, this will always be the difficulty level, i.e. Whether it is an elected representative or not. It's also how far to go, where's this gray area a suave, what if it's illegal? Who's the one telling the law? And so on. It's complicated. Yet, I feel very important that there is a clear process, and there is a possibility that there is more than a public slight on the council website. But I may be wrong. It's very good if the lack of meetings of the Committee is because it's all right. Let's hope it is, it's just a good environment. I think so. I have no reason to think otherwise. But these many stories that came to us in the autumn months, in the #methoo stories from political women, suggest that we may not be quite clear about our behavior toward one another. Sadly, this has been the case with political women who have experienced many sexual violence over the years.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u45	Mr. President. You're absolutely right. A senator's supervision, follow - up, and depending on events, is one of the most difficult factors in this matter. Of course, it is happy to have a board of directors and monitoring committees look into it only as it has time to do so now and can see to the data available from the time it was prepared in this regard. I think it is in the very gray area - where there is a violation or alleged violation of ethical principles, some unacceptable conduct, or some sort of conduct that is not legal, not criminal or criminal - in which people are in the difficulty of settling laws. It is generally viewed as a well-designed conclusion as quite a law for an elected representative. If the bottom line of the matter is clear and he feels that he has violated a code of ethics, at least there are some penalties or penalties in itself for an elected representative to be found guilty of publicity. However, it is expected that a prime committee will be able to complete matters in many ways, depending on how serious they are. From the absence of an unprovoked case, by interacting with the person, by urging him to improve his course, by reaching the outcome and after the events making it public, or by going all the ways that would likely be in serious cases, and by applying the Commission and then to complete the case with the prime committee. In general, you assume that this is a serious matter. But as I'm saying, this, of course, is one of the very good and beneficial things to be considered by a management board and a surveillance committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u46	Mr. President. Thank you so much. Thank you for these questions and for those answers at the highest. The president of the council has served here. I'll think about that, too, about possible wood layers, i.e. the result of an issue published. But, of course, these are all the details. However, I do not want to disappear here from the platform without mentioning that the person who has the case, using a word of language, or who believes that he has been wronged can be the last to experience the subject's name so that it will simply be burdensome to report a violation of moral principles. Also, there is always the need to make sure that all of this is done in consultation with the person who announces it, for it is also a very strong act. How pleasant it is to complain about improper behavior! It's for some reason, as ridiculous as it sounds, sucking on the person who is going to be complaining about violence. That's an intolerable fact. That's what we're trying to change with all this revolution. But for some reason, it seems that the person who claims to be violent or disrespectful behavior needs to be made up: Am I the one who points out that the senator was acting in such a miserable way? But this continues to work. Once again, I welcome this assignment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u47	Mr. President. In the beginning, I want to say that I am very pleased with it. The prime committee and audience members in it should contribute these fine matters and be pleased with the interest shown by members of the council. You see, here's where mine doesn't know a small thing. This is actually a continuation of the response the council made after the #methoo revolution that began here this fall is a matter of great importance to the council showing tangiblely that we are not going to do anything to tie any ends to that matter. We're not going to buy absolution by doing something, and then it's fine. On the contrary, we are going to try to prepare for a follow-up. This is especially important to us, huh? General members and members of the council as an institution because of the nature of this institution, most other institutions in the community. Everything we do in this room is recorded and recorded, all that goes on at the Senate Hall, and it's actually very important. Everything we do is wrong. Senators are a reflection of all the activities of the council. Everything we say out loud reflects in some way the council is all we do on and out of the same mirror. I have at my previous political level, i.e. to the county government, engaged in composing ethical rules, similar to those of the council, at Kopavogsville. There, in that case, the town council began writing its name at the beginning of each terms under the code of ethics, establishing the rules of ethics itself at the beginning of each terms. I wondered if it would be easy to say a little more about this, but the rules are made as they are now, and therefore perhaps to consider whether there should be a law on it every time they change it, that all members of Congress have to confirm the rules, but at least every time. which is chosen by the council. I may have a point similar to that of a why. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson was earlier when I also wondered if not even at the beginning of each assembly should be some sort of lecture, a meeting where members of the council met and then write their name on the subject of a lecture. In my last job, there were all kinds of rules, when I worked at a university in the United States, that at the beginning of each service year, everyone had to sit for a lecture on the dangers of tuberculosis. If they did not, they were grazed until they could show that they had read one such lecture that year. I draw this out to show that there are all kinds of ways to get people to understand that we don't just have this as some word on paper, we have it because we really think it matters. We feel that this is so important that somehow it is a matter of intertwining in a very specific way. Hv. The senator and chairman of the Commission and Commission, Helga Vala Helgaa Helgadóttir, came on only the penalty. It is a joy to know that the ancient man intends to accept this matter in a good way. Board of Directors and Control Committee. It's very important. How can you create such a thing around such a rule? I got it. I got it. The board of directors and monitoring committees to take an honest discussion about it on the Committee whether this trip could be used to look at it better, whether it could be used to further examine the proper application of some of the laws, not as the most militarized ones would say, hang men out to be a servant, or women after events, but so that it would push men to understand the proper importance of the rules, to understand what this is all about, that it is about more than just some particular act, this is all about so much more. It's about the respect of the council and the respect of the community for the council. These are things that I think are important to look into. I'd like to go to the end again to direct it to what? The committee wondered if they could expand the provision of the proposal's b-join, with the permission of a president: ▪ Councilmen must not treat other members, members of the council, or visitors sexually or sexually harass them, bully them, or treat them in any other disrespectful way. I feel as if there were some more social connection that would turn them toward not necessarily being someone who's right here in the wall, visiting the council, or something like that, but being a senator's conduct in the everyday life in general. Even if we are private and not at all times at the Assembly Hall or on the behalf of the council somewhere, we are everywhere we come while we have this commission elected members of the nation, and therefore it is important to consider this possibility. I wish at last. In the review of this matter, the board of directors and monitoring committees are looking forward to receiving a mixed product following the work of the Committee here at the council Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u48	V.E.G. President. First, I'm going to say that I'm both grateful and happy to be a part of this arrangement. I don't think any of us have been prepared for what we've heard here during the recent sexual harassment and so forth in the community, in politics, and so on. So I think it was a good decision to declare it immediately by saying that the Allied Council will not tolerate such behavior by those who work here, sit, or come along. There is another matter, and in itself I don't see the need for it, what shall I say, that we will extend it. I'm just so crippled that I don't feel that I'm just a general when I'm in this house and I don't think we have anything to look at. We are all councilmen everywhere, wherever we came. I think now people must make it up to themselves when they allow themselves to do this work, that they will act reasonably wherever they come and be themselves and those who gave them the authority to do anything that would bring them credit. What may also be a factor in this matter is that respect for others requires self - respect, a person's respect for himself. I think they're going to make it up to each and every one of them, whether they're going to want to find out what's going on here. I think we just need to think about it. We will also be able to read the words of love if we are wondering how we want to walk in both the house and the other places. I think we're all alone never on vacation, with the members of the council. No matter where we are, we are always at work. We are always representatives of those who led us on a course to be here, and we represent the council wherever we are. It just means that we're probably not gonna push in the queue at the store or have another kind of pimp even worse, that's just the way it is. I think it was a very necessary step for the Council to react. I agree with it. People have previously said that the conference held here earlier, the barbershop convention, was extremely successful. It is a very good shape to get to the core of a matter. To that end, I agree with what. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson that we could use this form more widely, i.e. of other matters and of such deep discussions, as we did there. Especially, as one says, in a shelter for throwing light. I think it is necessary for us to do so, both in this matter and in other matters, as time progresses. I say again, I'm very glad this case is here. As a member. I'm looking forward to putting the case right there. If you think there's any reason to make matters better, I'm sure the committee will do so by carefully reviewing it and taking time to look at it. Otherwise, I'm once again celebrating the contribution of this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u49	A respectable president. I want to start with 2. A senator's moral code, which accurately states that the rules of these terms apply to the Generals and to their public progress and involved their duties as representatives of the National Committee. That's exactly what I want to understand, as we've seen before, e.g. When co-administered, the risk was increased. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson, so this applies much more than within the council's walls. Hv. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's straggler also said that in a presentation on the council resolution proposal. This concerns us everywhere we come, on the shop or on vacation, abroad and wherever we are. I'd also like to mention the principles of conduct in the B-team 5. ... withauthority of the President's permission: ... making decisions in the public service. Some members of Parliament are also ministers and ministers also have the code of ethics, the code of ethics, and, as members of Congress and Ministers, they must be on both sides as well. I call attention to this because I have produced some questions about the ethics of a minister and their conduct in the recent years. Respect for the questions I have been given will not give me much hope for the value of moral principles they should have. Moral standards are of utmost importance, but it is not enough that it is merely a symbolic formula to sign and then do nothing with them. I asked, for example. The evaluation of the social status of Iceland's property in a foreign land was a matter of public interest, as it is clearly stated by the Minister's ethics that a minister should take initiative to publish information that he has in the public interest of the people, but it also states in the Congress Code that he should make decisions with a public interest. Several comments made by a minister after the incident involved putting that report into a drawer of the election indicated that this decision was not guided by public interest. I asked them if they had asked whether the material was a public interest concern or not. The answer was that a report on Iceland's property in a foreign land had been carried out on the initiatives of financial and economic ministers and that its publication had thus been completely unmistakably without any external signals or assessments of whether they were relevant according to ethical guidelines. I really need to breathe deeply when I read this because this answer simply shows that it was deliberately overlooked. They did not apply in this case when the matter was taken by financial and economic ministers. Then I'd like to make this connection as good as any. Senators have told us here to ask if our work here and our code of ethics are compatible only when we are handling exactly our defined duties, etc. but not when we take our own initiative, even if it is in our name as senators or Ministers. That answer, regardless of the ceremony that led to this, I feel dishonored by both Congress and Minister's code of ethics, and that's why I'm worried. I'm convinced that because the code of ethics is mere formality. They should not be, but the examples show that they are ignored. The only way we can prove that they should produce the desired results is to let them work and hold them responsible. This is of utmost importance to send a message that the code of morality has a meaning that we are writing, as mentioned earlier in a talk, and we take it into our heart and into our conscience. I wouldn't want to sign a code that would violate my conscience. That's not the purpose of ethics. I would hope that the code of ethics reflected the customs I represent, and I hope it applies to more people. We make these very good rules, this addition to the rules, and if we can't sign them, we shouldn't. This is the first step in following the Code. We set the limits we think we can follow. There is also a message about what we feel we cannot follow. It may well be that someone disagrees that something is not in a moral code that the person feels should be in a moral code. It's just a learning process. The first step is to sign the rules of morality according to your own convictions, as with the Constitution. Another is that it is a prime committee that oversees the complaint over violations of the protocol, and I make a comment. I don't necessarily see other possibilities because we're very independent of our jobs as individual senators, with our authority in that way, but we also have a set system of commissions arranged by category. In that environment, we have a self - examination of the Presidency Committee, where there is a hint or complaint about even our party members. At the same time, we're on our own. In between, there's overlap. Another example of ours is a letter letter board, which is where we're deciding our own authority. The situation, although not yet doing so, could result in changes in the outcome of elections. I didn't remember much at this assembly, I was on a board of letters, and I didn't have much votes. No matter how they would have gone, they could not have made any changes, but if they had, I would no doubt be incompetent, and in other cases I would feel unable to decide my own authority. We're not supposed to be put in that position. You see, this is very important. When it comes to certain protocols and their conduct, people must not be placed in a position to determine a conflict of interest. This is exactly what it means to report it in advance. I think we should take care of it a little bit more. There's also a suggestion in the GRECO report that we're not good enough, we're not too extensive on this. I'm hoping we'll do better, but it's at least A very good step.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u50	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator very much for his discussion here, which was very useful and informative. It's really fun to be here and think about all this with the code of ethics. I just want to come into this thing with the set of values. In our current moral code, it says, by permission of a president: These terms apply to the General Assemblymen of the State Passes and to their duties as representatives of the National Committee. That's exactly what you're wondering. Does this code apply only when members of the Parliament are in public interest? Are we in the process of human evolution to the code of ethics such as this, especially in the case of political representatives who are temporarily employed here, about public success or unofficial, perhaps of no importance? Of course, it is always this discussion about when a person should be allowed to enjoy privacy and all that, but for many it is a temporary job to be a public servant. Perhaps it is in the interests of the public that you just act in this way not so complex, even outside the council, even in unofficial endeavors?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u51	A respectable president. I could easily interpret this field of values far beyond what it looks like, public activity, etc. When someone stops me at the store and asks me something, he's more asking me as a senator than a person. This will be a part of a public ceremony. But checking on a personal site or something may involve no one, and no one has really touched on it. I think we may be closer to a place where people can better understand what is private and at peace with one another. There will always be grey areas on which we must meet safely. There's always something new coming. I could go through some technical tests, little cameras that have been put in glasses, and then you can see who's behind you. I've put on glasses with faces, always pointing out, you get certain information into the glass, who this is, some friend, but you can, of course, point the camera backwards and see his friend behind you and not enough about it, but he's looking at your ass. You know that all of a sudden. This is an extra witness you didn't have a chance to find out before. And thus possible changes society, making it a foundation. Surely we must always examine these boundaries and where we are as public figures and where we are not. I look forward to continuing that discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u52	Mr. President. When is a person revealed, and when is it not revealed? I have to agree with what. A senator, in this new field, more and more are asked about everything in heaven and on earth, even at the table of meat at the tabernacle. Or over the coffee at the basketball game. It may just be the charm of this job, that the public sees us a little as their employees. We're not labeling ourselves out. This may be why it is also desirable for people to view it as a certain location on their journeys. Now, about signing up on a private page, I'm just wondering, uh, section 5. Senators' Code. It says, by permission of the President: The members of the Council shall serve as members of the National Assembly: do not use their official status for personal gain... You wonder if a senator would sign up under his own name on such a page, whether he would violate this code. But then I'd only like to step to 2 mg. Section 5. these protocols, current. It's about the deputy senators. Presidents do not sign the code of ethics until they have been sitting continuously for four weeks. It's rather strange to me. As soon as you get here and sign this pledge, you're now representing the National Committee. You've taken your place at the Council. Then I think that all of us must agree that the code of ethics should apply to the individual as well as to all the others here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u53	A respectable president. I experienced the beginning of the Internet Revolution and the possibility that people had lost in the past, i.e. Being anonymous, being able to behave in a certain way in a social setting, not under their own name or under the responsibility it brings. It was a process of learning that you went through. You have the chance to do anything without responsibility. But then you are no longer you. At least that was what I thought. Although someone can be played, it's not me. Or is it me? I think it's in the direction of what I just described earlier. You have the chance to do something, but do you? Is that what you're following? In part, that answers who you are and what your moral code is. It's somewhat informative, it's self-concerned. At any rate, I decided that no matter what name I was on the Internet, I would just be myself. I find that interesting to this discussion about what I am as a public person and what I am in my personal life. What choice can I make when I am signing a code of ethics? They care about me personally, not just as a public person. [[The president calls.]] I can't sign a code that I can't follow. Not just me as a public person, but me.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u54	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's carriage before the talk. The Senator got to talking about when you're a public person and what a public person is, whatever the senators do is public. In some ways, this is a existential question. Is it now, if it exists as a phenomenon, not becoming a public being nearly to all of us? Isn't it somehow all we do in the square almost every day? Then I'll come to the content I meant to do even. dwelling in question with the senator, this use of community media and the Internet into it. Most of the senators are probably registered on Facebook. Many of us who click on any link there or cure all the time - is that official activity? Are we saying that we are supporting something that might be applied to a moral code? Or do they even have to accept the code of morality in some way? Do members of Congress even have to have a personal Facebook page and a Facebook page that shows up by members of the public character?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u55	A respectable president. I've been in a lot of trouble snapping onto something that may be part of a big story or a record, and it's often chiseled, it's really fun to do that. It is full of walking, and especially what you do as a public person, seeking it, and looking for it, if there is something that you can interpret in one way or another. All right, and how are we gonna do that? I think that this thing with a personal Facebook - private tattoo or whatever it's called in Icelandic and public Facebook page touched what I mentioned earlier. I can't sign a code that I can't enforce. It has nothing to do with my official person. That means they apply on a personal bank page. That's how I interpret it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u56	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. I'd also like to discuss another matter with the senator, who made a point of his own. It's about penalties. In fact, more members of the council have introduced them only in their talks today, i.e. In what ways can we apply the laws of the law? The senator simply has some ideas about or tips, probably to what? The management board and the monitoring committee, how could such possibilities be considered? In fact, I mentioned in my talk earlier that this was something that was wrong. A committee would need to be examined. As the senator realizes, this is by no means easy. If you try to look into the constitution, you will see that you have a lot to go on in order to, for example. After being elected, the councilman's commission can be maligned. There are all kinds of laws in progress that make it impossible for people to give up wages or incomes or that they must treat all members of the council in the same way, etc. Since I don't see it as some sort of hurry to find the way in it, I wanted to ask the senator if he could help a congregation in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u57	A respectable president. This is the huge question that everyone has tried to answer. The only thing I've been doing in my injections, even in recent years, is that when I sign ethics, I should also be signing specific guidelines. Then it is my informed consent to violate the code of ethics that goes under the penalty. They can vary. Obviously, I think that's not all, but I don't know. I have previously seen an example of the wedding, how it is, and how senators can technically see only Majori, or the same as that, for four years. There's nothing to do about it, nothing to do about it. It's obvious to me that this is a violation of moral principles. This, however, is done, by North American senators who deliberately depart to the British Parliament, who engage in a campaign with the intent to say that they are not going to sit down at the council. Then they're elected to Congress and not to show up. This is how they fulfill election promises and that is not a violation of moral code. But this is the only solution I can see, that at the same time as you sign a code of ethics, he would sign the wood he's going to follow. But that is where the problem comes from, we are in a self - examination with a prime committee, where there may be several other reasons why someone is said to have violated a moral code but are actually.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u58	V.E.G. President. We have a code of ethics. The paper on the proposal discussed here, on the change of ethics for the Generals, says, by permission of presidents: The development of moral rules for the Generals is to reinforce the ethic and their responsibilities, as well as their belief and trust in the public at the General Assembly. This includes promoting the healthy working environment of the National Committee and at the same time that members of the Parliament respect their work, their fellow soldiers, their opponents, and others, including those involved in their field of work and those whom members of the Parliament interact with in their non-consistency. It is, therefore, natural and justified in view of the demands that in the ethics of the Generals, it is stated the principle that members of Congress commit themselves to contribute to creating a healthy working environment within a assembly, which is free of sexual harassment, harassment, and other unwilling conduct. At the same time, it is the duty of each member of the council to reject such practices and that members of Congress do not treat other members of the council, employees, or visitors with sexual harassment or any form of violence, or any other disrespectful attitude. In the perfect world, we would not need such rules, but we are weak, and we need to set boundaries and have rules of conduct. There was a step that we took by signing this code, but after we had kept here quite an excellent day and a good conference that sprang up from the #metoo campaign, this proposal was made, and I celebrate her behavior. This day at the council as the highest. Our president was a very pleasant and pleasant surprise for me. The fact that we could sit here for a whole day and have such a useful day and a good discussion was truly unique. There, Trinitarians had nothing to do with it. We talked across groups, could be open and sincere, and expressed ourselves to the extent each one chose. It's precious to me. The discussion here may tell us that we need to make room for the council to deal with these matters and discuss them completely along with the politicians and everything else. I think we're all nice people. All of us want to be decent people, and not to resort to violence will guide every decent person. It's supposed to be totally clear. Somehow, though, it seems that there is a pale spot, and then we need to help one another into the right direction in that regard. I have full faith that we should be able to do this here, agree with us to accomplish this matter. I want you to know that I'm here to welcome the conduct of this mission and to look forward to dealing with it on a board of administration and monitoring committee. It contains many points that we can roll up. I'm not going to have that discussion here when I feel like a senator and when I don't. I think this job is going to kill us, and we're just senators while we are. There is no one activity between the evening and the morning at any given time or at any time. We're supposed to be at least To our parents'credit, and as long as we succeed, we must be a credit to our workplace. I agree that when they come in here, we need to see if the same rules are not valid. As soon as we sign this vow, we're going under those rules. Regarding ethical standards, it has often been identified as not being able to set groups; rather, it has to be established by the groups. That's why I think we should take more time to discuss these matters and deal with matters of opinion than I know that we are fully capable of doing so. I look forward to my work, and I appreciate the attitude of this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u59	Mr. President. I was going to thank you primarily for an excellent and useful discussion. I'm glad that the director of the Board of Directors and Commission has sat here with us and shared in the discussion and heard it as well. Councilmen have added a useful piece, expected, to the committee when considering the matter. First, I have responded to some of the factors before, but I would like to mention them. paritaprevir The Helga Helgadóttir Helgaóttir took up the very important point, which is to be careful about the particular person who complains or sends in a tip about a possible fracture or something that has to do with ethics. We can call it the informant or after the experiences of an tolerated person. That is exactly what they intend to do and to be able to handle the situation very well, so that they are absolutely careful not to cause anyone who calls the attention of the presiding committee to see that such a thing might have taken place. Second, several members of the council have mentioned here how the registration is to be carried out and after the events of the renewal of commitment. For example, it is to be done at the beginning of each terms such as the winter. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson informs us that Kópavogi is being made? It has been noted that these regulations are in accordance with local regulations for noncombatants. I think I have an explanation for why that rule is the way it is. This is probably because they used the same criteria as the rules for interest registration. This accords entirely with the agreement on the registration of interest, that members of the Parliament shall record their interests if they sit for four consecutive weeks or more. It is by no means possible to apply the code of morality. That's why I immediately mentioned in my reply or in my introduction, whether it was, that it was something that a board of directors and patrols might be considered. My personal opinion is that it's most natural for people to sign this immediately, that they are made to study the rules and sign them as soon as they begin their work here. Third, what many have mentioned has to do with the purpose. Of course, it is far beyond what you would expect from the rules of the rules, that it is only to create certain rules of communication that are to be followed and bound by. Of course, in recent years and decades there are standards and other aspects of society that have been taking up more extensive roles, as well as those for far more extensive parts of the community, i.e. improving culture, atmosphere, or environment. It has to do with what many have come in here, that men should respect themselves and the work they do, their fellow workers, the workplace, etc. Then I'll get to the fourth thing I'd like to say, i.e. The question about the set of values or when humans are bound by the rules and when they are not. The Advisory Committee gave a very helpful tip in its discussion of the results of this task group; that there is reason to correct and expand it, of course, that the rules of ethics apply not only within the House of the General but where a senator is working, is by the Generals, or is doing his duty as such. Meetings throughout the country or abroad as well as where they are in their work as such, as I told them in my background. Then we come to something else that, of course, members of Congress - even if they are somewhere on a journey as individuals, they remain members of Congress. This is a somewhat parallel question about what the media have struggled with, e.g. correspondent in Britain: When should we report something a senator says or can be seen doing and when not? Where does his privacy lie as an individual? The British have a relatively clear definition of these topics. Now, I'm going to avoid going into a foreign language and try to translate it: It's the media as the fourth power that accepts the authority they feel they have, when they think they're justified, and they often approach things that way - and this is what you've seen in a discussion of politicians, e.g. in the British media, which certainly go far and are demanding and urgent - simply saying, "A public person in public or public places is public. " And they do not hesitate to share what they see and hear in such cases. And in reality, I tend to believe that this is the standard that we can have in mind; that the public representative of the state is public and his conduct. Of course, this does not apply to him as an individual or as a person in his home or in his family or in a closed field, saying something about an old schoolmate or something like that. It's not official anymore, because it's out of public place, not in public. Of course, it's perfectly acceptable to review and examine everything. However, people must keep in mind, as the members of the council have only pointed out, that we then need to read together the Senator's immunity and his rights as elected representatives. It is not for good reason that the Constitution and the law govern that sanctity. On the other side, the danger of misuseing it. If men had the authority to intervene against a senator on unpredictably grounds, it will be necessary for him to be protected in his duties, to remain at peace. He should not pay back what he says. The Congress itself must take part if it is to glorify this immunity. We could also consider the duties of a senator. Where do they fit the code, etc., as some have mentioned here. I don't agree that it's all going to be considered and discussed. However, in all my kindness, I will finally say that I hope that this will not lead to a delay in the outworking of this matter. I think the changes we're here to make to current protocols are urgent and we should aim to make them available for spring.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u60	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The President of Congress is very much interested in the speech. Shortly as to who is a public person, I suddenly remembered that it has rather been discussed in court, both within the land and in the European Court of Human Rights, that a public person cannot really become an unofficial person just because it seems so expressly at that moment. It is possible that within the four walls of a household, as far as it is concerned, there is a standard for judging the very fact that if a person is a public person, he will have to endure the discussion, his actions, and what he says. That is why, during their duties, the code of ethics should reach members of the Parliament, whether on a sunny trip to Teneripfe, in any of the Houses of the Generals, or on public visits in any part of the world.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u61	Mr. President. I don't think it's a lot to add, but I think the a- team is trying to get a good grip on this with this expression: ▪ working hard to create a healthy working environment within the council as well as everywhere they're doing their jobs, etc. We're entering the code of ethics in two places, as I suppose it would be. Senators have come to realize. On the one hand, this first general approach is in Article 5. on principles and on the other hand, there is a new article in the following paragraph 7. where the activities are specifically laid on humans in this regard. I think it's quite clear that with this, it's really as wide as you think it is. I am limping under the interpretation that this means that the code of ethics binds you, and that they should respect them wherever they are, as political representatives in public.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u62	A respectable president. This will be a bill for a song about the change in films, No. 137/2000, with subsequent changes. The bill is written at the Ministry of Education and Culture in consultation with the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs. The main goal of the law is to promote filmmaking and film culture in Iceland. It can be said that the bill's content is divided in two, on the one hand, that candidates from other EEA countries can apply for support to the Film Fund, however many film reforms are being made that would lead to better explanation and increased transparency and equality. Changes to the law are subject to, including that candidates from other EEA countries can apply for grants to the film fund, but there are also more detailed conditions than there are currently, for financial support only through Icelandic films, Icelandic films, and Icelandic cultural or social appeals. This pattern and how these changes are taken into account in the Danish Film Act. So far, film collections have been confined to Icelandic films that live according to film law are films that are developed or costed by Icelandic sources or are partners with Icelandic and foreign parties. Such interventions in which funding to the manufacturer is not expected which is confirmed in other EEA countries or includes other direct or indirect national requirements are not in accordance with ESA guidelines, the EFTA monitoring centre on these matters. This is shown in 46 mg. ........... The need to ensure that principle 4. The EEA Convention, which forbids discrimination on the grounds of ethnicity, is respected in the implementation of regulations for film making. A respectable president. Nevertheless, according to 24 mg, it is permitted in the Member States. The rules apply to a language spoken in a small language, such as the English language. The legislation of the rights of individuals and lawyers on the basis of the EEA Convention needs to be re-oriented, and it is considered reasonable to do so by legalizing the prohibition against discrimination on the grounds of ethnicity. A respectable president. I'd like to explain to you another major change in six sides of the film. First, the role of a movie council is being sharpened and the comments of Iceland's movie collections. Two. has therefore changed the way that filmmakers and script writers are designated by the Society's Fégigrapher. I think it's a major improvement and it's gonna make the width bigger in the movie council. Second, there is a better explanation for working between Iceland's Movie Center and the Movie Fund, i.e. The film center oversees the operation of a film fund, but the role of a movie fund is to promote Icelandic filmmaking with financial support. Third, a new paragraph is being set for a climax during the campaign, which harmonizes with other comparable directors. Maximum time now will be 10 years. Fourth, a new arrangement authorized to provide display grants during the period helped to offset the loss of the movie industry's income when a valuable tax was placed on the way. This is expected in budgets for the National Movie Center of Iceland. Fifth, the role of a movie adviser is being laid down and placed on the basis of the basis for which their assessment is laid should be made in the Regulation. For the first time, it is discussed that movie counselors value the relevant rules of government law. Sixth, there's a way in which it's based, i.e. that total concentrations will not exceed the rules specified. If conditions in these laws or regulations are not met and/or costs due to the project are not met below the expected source of financial resources, the granter of overpayable concentrations should be overcrowded. As the Senate hears, a respected president, many changes are being made that aim to improve the film law. A respectable president. I expect the case to be followed by this discussion referred to a second issue. ... andtowhat. General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u63	President. Thank you very much. Minister for an excellent review of the material. It is clear that this bill is being built to a large extent by comments from stakeholders in this country, as well as the fact that we have to meet certain conditions in the EEA Convention. I just want to have a place to talk to. Minister on subject of 13th paragraph. which are authorized by a minister to this Regulation, especially by the basis and setting of evaluations, which include men and women's position. I'm interested in what I hear from the highest level. A minister has in mind if he has developed a policy. For one thing, I look at some data that in the first 17 years of this century, I think the figures are correct, four of the 69 films here were made, i.e. Icelandic films, be played by women. That is a much lower proportion than in the last few decades. You can't say that we've walked the street for good according to these materials. I'd be interested to know if it's the highest. Ministers and their people have conflicting views on how to react.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u64	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for bringing this up. It is true in her case that women have directed or come to a much lower number of movies than men. I agree that when we're talking about government funds and funding, we need to be more concerned about recovery. We have not developed a specific policy in this regard. On the other hand, we have a very effective Minister's Committee on Equal Opportunities. I think it's necessary, before we take the next step, that we go over this with the attitude that we're going to settle the game even further. I'm open to any good ideas as far as it goes, how we should approach it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u65	Madam President. Thank you for this reaction. I'm telling you, maybe I wouldn't necessarily bring this up if the fact was that this ratio reflected the gender's interest in these matters. I've simply heard too many stories about women who have applied for strength to this fine fund and have had the reaction that this has been done before. What has been done before is that women have directed a job in which women played, and women wrote the manuscript. I think it's a good reason for us to look at this seriously. I trust it to the highest. Ministers of education, culture, and sports take the ball and also accept her challenge to bring ideas to the table. I can't wait to have that conversation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u66	A respectable president. This is a very important matter. A senator is calling the matter up. I'm very interested in hearing more about this. We left, following the revolution that has started, pretty fast and definitely into things about the sports movement. I think it's very important that in all the sectors or industry we're sponsoring from public funds, this should be examined with these eyes and see what's going on. Now I don't know if it's been done in my department. But I'd like to look at this, i.e. The proportion of people applying and the proportion of those who receive the result, continue to use this information. I think it's very important that we reflect our community when we're making movies or participating in sports or whatever we're doing; that we can reflect this diversity, this diversity. That's one of the things I also think about when we're thinking about getting out of the school system. Why do other boys disappear from school? There you will need to look from the other end. If there is some kind of stratosphere, there will be a gap between those who are developing policy shapes and those who need to work with it. But I like it very much and thank you for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u67	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct the changing of cultural values laws to other countries, No. 57/2011. The aim of the legislation is for Iceland to meet its national commitments to the EEA agreements and provide all new recommendations from Directive 2014/60/EU from the European Union. The purpose of the changes made with the bill is to clear the standards of the law in order to increase the possibility of their application. A respectable president. EU Directive No. 60 of 15 May 2014 Sources of Directive No. 7 From the European Union of March 15, 1993, to return the cultures which have been illegally transferred from the territory of the Member State. The 1993 decree set out an arrangement that enables Member States to ensure that cultural mines, classified as national value, have been removed from their domains in opposition to the measures taken by these countries, will be returned to their territory. Experience has shown that there are limitations in the arrangements to ensure that cultures will be returned. In particular, it has been shown that there was too much time in the law. A respectable president. Initially validated the Council of Iceland from 1993 by setting up a 1996 chapter in its existing national law. This chapter discussed both the export of cultural prices and cultural prices to other countries and was in it discussing the contents of the directive and the handling of them when Icelandic cultural value is exported from a land that is not involved in the content of the directive. Since this arrangement did not seem to be suitable for length, it was the part of national monumental law dealing with the contents of this directive taken out of parentheses and the laws of the law written on the basis of this directive made by special laws in 2001. Several material changes have been made on the original decree since 1993 to form in the 1990's and just after the turn of the century. All the changes were taken into account when law No. 57/2011 were approved. Thus, since we Icelanders are so well-deserved to own relatively new laws on cultural status, we did not have to turn much into Icelandic legislation to meet the requirements of this directive since 2014. It should finally be possible that the Minja Institute of Iceland, which is carried out by the law, has rarely or never had to be applied. A respectable president. After saying this, I suggest that the bill be after 1st. Pointed to why. General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u68	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct the conversion of the Christian Fund, etc., by subsequent adjustments. Before introducing the matter, I would like to mention in particular that this is in effect proposed by two members of the Council of Pirata and the Revolution. This case was also presented in its own future by a Council of Bjarts, the same council of Pirata, but this time it evolved so that we presented this bill, but the restoration also proposed it, and completely, on our own initiative. When we found out about this, we decided to bring the bill together, which is why these two members of the council are counted in exchange. That's on purpose, and I wish there could be two of the first transporters, and then it would be the one standing here. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson However, the transporters of the bill are all members of the Porta Congregation and the General Assembly of the Revolution. 1st par. this short bill is simple: 5.g. The law goes away. According to Article 5. Laws About Christian Funds, No. 35/1970 rural communities are obliged to contribute free weights to churches and to keep them free of charge. Now a priest is obliged to have a shop or a shopaholic and is obliged to offer free property under his apartment house in the case of an authorized priest's residence. The Christian Fund, etc. based in all the main suggestions made by the clergy committee as minister of the church ordered on April 23, 1965. At that time, the religious life of the nation was much more uniform, and there was a greater agreement in general regarding the involvement of public members in religious affairs. According to 62 st. The Constitution of the Republic of Iceland enjoys the European Lutheran Church's position of a national church in Iceland and will therefore be supported and protected by the State. For 65th. The Constitution, however, requires that all be equal in law and enjoy human rights, regardless of sex, religion, belief, ethnic background, race, color, economic, tribal status, and otherwise. Though the church council of the Icelandic Church has the oversight and administration of the Christian Fund and is responsible for the Synod of its government, there is no question about 5th. law on Christian treasure was not specifically referred to as the churches of the State but as churches in general. This is an important point. So it cannot quickly be seen at the 5th floor. The law's on the 62rd floor. the constitution that gives special protection and support to the State Church. However, this point is disputed and is one of the problems involved in the interpretation of the Law. A recent example is that, based on the Constitution's equal rule, rural society should also provide free land under comparable housing to other registered religious organizations, which, while reference to the Christian Fund to the Icelandic Church, separates it from the crosscutting tax. Since 1999, the provision of the city of Reykjavík has been interpreted according to the general sense of equality and thus made it a policy not to interfere with religious organizations when it comes to the distribution of free property under a house of worship, whether of Christian churches, temples, mosk, or temples. In 2014, however, the decision and its consequences led to a number of elections in rural governments because of the proposed building of the mosque and then whether the realm of the law was reserved only for the State Church or for a Christian congregation. This conversation was particularly marked by religious suspicion and hostility toward the decision, based on the Muslim community and the building of the mosque, not the Christian congregation and the building of a church. As previously attributed, 1.mg. 65. g. The Czech Republic's constitution was designed to ensure legal equality. Although the city of Reykjavík does not refer to 65 C.E. the constitution, especially when interpreting Article 5. The law on the Christian Fund does not allow for a general sense of equality. The Constitution is designed to ensure equality for law regardless of religious beliefs. Despite the interpretation of the law, which has sometimes been promoted, only part of the community would be responsible for giving free territories under the local church churches, not churches or other congregations worships, after the fact that this limitation is not directly made in the legal language itself. Similarly, when rural communities have looked to the general issues of equality, comparable to those of 65 C.E. The Constitution is designed to ensure that, communities have also given free property to other congregations under their places of worship. If a community's obligation to contribute free property is restricted to the churches of the National Church, it would seem that this would be in accordance with 62rd. The Constitution, despite 65th par. ... ofa legalcommunication. On the other hand, if this obligation of the local community according to the words, the churches in general, not the religions of life and religion, which preach beliefs or principles other than Christianity, would be required to stipulate Article 5. a law on the Christian Fund would be inconsistencies with the 65th paragraph. The Constitution of law. Hence, it seems that the arrangement is not compatible with the constitution unless it specifically defended the Church's churches according to the 62rd paragraph. The Constitution, or equalness, according to Article 65. The constitution. In view of all of this, it is safe to say that because of wording 5. the law on the treasure of Christianity can lead to differing interpretations depending on whether or not to be looked to at 62th or 65th. the constitution for its interpretation. In view of this, the transporters of this bill feel that the law needs to be changed, and they seem to be different. Two steps can be taken to clarify the procedure in the light of verses 62 and 65. The Constitution, the State Church and the Serenity Act. One is that it specifically identifies the churches of the National Church, which would indicate that it would be in strict agreement with the discrimination on the basis of the beliefs of 62 C.E. In spite of 65 C.E., the Constitution is authorized. ... ofa legalcommunication. It would seem that the interpretation of the provision would be made by members of rural society that only free property was to be provided under the churches of the Church and not by other congregations, even though Christians were. This is thought to be a step back, not a step toward society's evolution towards tolerance and equality for law independent of religious belief. Similarly, when a discussion directed against a particular religion on the basis of its religious beliefs, the requirement is not prerequisite to another popular religion, as it might be expected that such would further address the tensions and conflicts that have already been caused. The other way is to remove the article. Transporters of this bill count the law of the child of the time when religious and biological organizations were considerably more uniform than at present. The operation to oblige rural communities alone to dispose of valuable land without charge for religious organizations that would thus not be relevant in modern society, where property is limited resources. Furthermore, the movers believe that no valid evidence is given that rural society is obliged to give up property free of charge for religion and principles rather than for other partners. Thus, the movers of this bill suggest that the law be removed, and religions pay for lands, as is usual. It must naturally be that rural society has its own right to its own territory. Religion and belief in life are inherently controversial, and it may be supported by a hateful speech that is at odds with the objective of an open and enlightened discussion. It is unacceptable for the Icelandic law to cause a difference in understanding of its goals and interpretation to cause differences between religious groups, whether the law includes discrimination or even whether it should be there. It is safe to say that the Lawgiver's purpose was never to bring such social reversals when the law was first put into law, but the carriers of this bill consider the simplest and most reasonable solution to the problem of removing the article. A respectable president. Now I've read from the bill's report, which I basically read all over because I couldn't find anything I thought could escape. I'd like to reiterate that bill is, in effect, submitted by two members of the council, both of which took the initiative but presented separately, and then discovered that they had both submitted it. I consider this to be a group of members of Pirata and the Revolutionary Party. The only thing that controls my name is first, not my name. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín's Friðriksson is that we'll send her in to do a little earlier. That's the only reason. I would like to mention just in the final words of the report that you can understand that at the time, when the religious life of the Icelanders was characterized by Christianity and a certain Christian congregation, such laws may have been appropriate. I probably wouldn't have if I had, but I would have understood the cause better then. I would like to stress that this is not just some innocent law that is harmless in our time. It's not harmless, it's caused noodles. Although it is not only natural but, rather, that religious groups have a different view of life and express the different visions, insult one another, and sometimes goads with one another, it is only part of human society, where opinions are more than one. The debate that arose during 2014's district election, which arises from time to time, is a debate that I'm afraid of, discussing whether it should differ on the basis of religion. The answer to that question is clearly no, and this is made clear in 65 C.E. The Constitution of law. The problem is, we have a law that according to the sound could. It is a controversial matter, but we should not view it as harmless. It's a rather serious problem if we let it boil in our society. The only way for fleas to allow conflicting beliefs and principles to flourish on their own terms and to settle their opinion in a moral way is by allowing each one of us to be equal to the law. It's fundamental, it's part of democracy itself. We cannot be without the basics. So I say this matter is more important than it might seem quickly. I really hope that in the coming district elections it is not the same debate as whether we should stand between people on the basis of religious beliefs because this discussion alone is repugnant and not in any way at any rate with anything I would call a civilized society, let alone democracy. Finally, I thank those who brought the matter with me, but these are also the reasons why. The members of Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, Thorfredur Ævarsdóttir Övarsdsson, Valdimarsson, Halldóra Ólafsson, Þorsteinn K. Gunnarsdóttir, Jón Víglundsson, Smári Mccarthy, and Leví Gunnarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u69	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator of the past and thank you for the way the matter is worked out. As the senator was well versed in them, discussions over these matters too often fell in hate talk against certain religions and religious groups. It is important that we approach it in only a more objective way, as is done here. It is only natural for us to reevaluate these rules because they spring up in a very different environment than we do today. I hit e.g. According to the term "indecisional rights of a community" in the matter of the day. And it's pretty cute. Now I haven't been at Congress as long as I am. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson, but I've had a lot of times, it was that when the government moves something towards the rural communities and the rural communities see to some expense of their actions, this private right of society is often mentioned. I wondered if the senator had any idea of what the situation was like in 1970 when the government decided that there were weights that could be given and that it would be the government's choice. What did the communities think of this? So I know that the Senator is just as interested in being outcast and boring as I am, I'd like to ask him how he understands the opening words of 5. The law, which is, by permission of presidents: It's not locals, business stores, and shop shops. Does he understand these words, so that these laws reach urban areas, not rural, rural communities? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u70	A respectable president. I have to admit that I just hadn't thought about the point of the last question. Senator. I find her very interesting. Look forward to seeing if this is going to happen to a committee, but I'm guessing it's going to the committee as a matter of course. A senator is in. No, I'm wrong. A senator is no longer on that committee if I recall correctly. Anyway, I can't answer that question, but I think this is an interesting question. As for the rest, how this has been in the 1970's when it seems to me that when it comes to national or predominant religions in each culture, there will be an automatic respect for a particular institution that is the most popular at any given time. In Iceland it is the European Lutheran Church, the so - called National Church or State Church, as I call it. In a community where religion is not much and there is one religious belief that in some way self - determination in the community, I assert that there will be an overwhelming fear of ever suggesting something that is against the interests of that church or that religion. This is happening regardless of whether it is Christianity or something else, I think. While men may not have found this comfortable at the time, and probably some in that hall at the time thought that this was now a rather advanced way, etc., I'm not sure - with the warning that I haven't looked up myself - that men were very eager to fit that view, because when there is some state, they have a measure of holiness, a holiness that I think is appropriate in a religious sense, but I don't think it's appropriate for a statehood or an institution that is especially supportive of the state. [[The president calls.]] This is my guess in advance that I have not studied the talks. But for asking why. Well, then maybe I'll do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u71	A respectable president. Because the senator called the State Church a State church, perhaps I would like to look back on only the time when it was a state church and when it had a superior position that is still in some respects reflected in law. While Church and State were completely alone, it may have been reasonable for the church to have access to all the advantages available to the government, including land use. Since then, things have changed, and likely things will change. Maybe I'd like to think twice about the senator. It is often the church meeting, but if we were to take the step further and go to the State Church's private service so that there would have to be some final payment between Church and State, would it not be necessary to look at these items that have been assigned to the church, as it were today? Is it not part of this perhaps coming act? If we thought this further and began to view a bit of a civil world in which state and religion are just separate, would we not still need to have some formal support from the public with churches and religions such as other communities and other cultural institutions and to support the work that is taking place there in some way? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u72	A respectable president. I'd probably be able to give my own talk about questions why. A senator, but I grabbed two. Others are concerned with the so - called church meeting, which is, in my opinion, a very dishonest agreement made between the State Church and the State at the time, which included the state's receiving weights from the Church, various weights such as the Field, and against which it would pay a price for many priests, etc. Forever. That, in my opinion, was nothing more than an attempt to make it really impossible to separate state and church fully. Some church members today say that the state and church were separate. I think it's the best thing to do with misunderstandings, the worst dropping of simple outbacks, because it isn't. 62. g. The constitution I went over earlier is still there, and there is still all sorts of discrimination that leads to it. I'm against all of her, so I'm just saying it right now. But there is something important to bear in mind that this matter does not have to do with the church meeting. This is the property that has already been given. I can't see that it can be taken back, but it's not the same relationship, some contract that needs to be canceled. It's much more complicated to go to the church meeting than this. I don't see that this has any such effect. This is where I see that these ends, that these weights will simply be stopped. Actually, I'm not quite sure what would happen to requests that have already been received, there's something I'm assuming that the committee needs to take a closer look. Now I don't have time for a second question. A senator, but who knows who we'll be able to do more in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u73	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator for a nice trip. In his answer to what? paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson may have had some problems with the main thing I wanted to ask the senator about, but we're fine. However, I wanted to introduce it, since I had some time ago participated in the city affairs, that I could inform me that many elected representatives in the city system have been waiting very long before the Council would consider this matter. Although respect and understanding are very well - understood, the thinking that caused these laws to be passed at the time may have been performed on that law over the last two decades. asked very important questions as to whether this is in harmony with the original purpose of the law and the sense we have in today's religious life. As a result, I feel that this bill is very good, although only to open up the subject and the discussion, although it may not be quite able to determine how it ends. Then will I know that, as there were two companies here, I know that, for example, I do. that the mayor's group of Independence Party has been officially calling after a long time for the General to take this matter to himself. In recent answers, religious organizations that have already developed lands were introduced. It's easy now to have been on the side of the city and to have this request, but now that you're in here, there are all kinds of questions. I wanted to hear a little better from what I heard. A senator will see how he feels about those who have already acquired a property and an equal in this regard. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u74	A respectable president. I have to admit, I don't have the final answers right now. I assume that the committee taking over this office at the General Assembly would find out, and especially when there are other sources, which I look forward to reading and making sure that they come from various rural communities and certainly from Reykjavík. Generally speaking, I'd be quick to say that I'm now just a senator, not a lawyer, but a lawyer, that the rural communities could in themselves provide these weights if they so desired. Now I just don't know if my community needs any special legal rights to supply weights to a particular function. I just don't know. I suppose that's what the committee's gonna find out. On the other hand, I am personally a firm spokesman for the fact that my rural society should rule itself as much as possible and what I really think is the worst thing when I read this law is that rural society is obliged to do this. The fundamental issue behind this bill is law-to-law equal. A community may decide to place a specific site on a particular sports club, as an example or under a particular art form, to say music rather than art or anything. All things must be based on material views as long as they are not based on discrimination on a religious basis, as long as it is not based on discrimination illegally based on 65th. The constitution. But we also have 62 st. According to my interpretation, the Constitution, the National Church that allows to some extent, discrimination on the basis of religious beliefs. About what question? A senator would be quick to assume that local communities would have to figure out for themselves how they were doing with requests that had already been received. Nevertheless, I would personally view the obligation to have fallen when the law was changed, but my communities were no longer obliged to do so. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But as I say, there is something better revealed in committees after 1st.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u75	Madam President. I appreciate those answers. What I think will be a problem in this discussion, and this legislation is why this is the case, the reason why this situation has come up is that the city of Reykjavík gave the note two decades ago about wanting to look at the definition of the church that was prescribed. In this context, it is worth considering the future, in fact, a competitive prelude to the religions that have been given property over the decades. Then there is a stop, and nothing will be available for possible religions that follow. As the basis for this discussion is equal, I think it's worth keeping in mind in the commission offered here, and it's a good idea. I reiterate that I think these legislations are about many children of their time. There's nothing wrong with it, legislation's outgrown and changing with society. We're just supposed to celebrate. But my charms into the Committee office, where I will not participate, are making sure that the purpose of the appointment is not forgotten.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u76	A respectable president. I just want to thank you for the tip and assume the committee will review it all. I think you're right. A senator says it's a child of his time. I'd like to be more aware of that, the occasion, and maybe I'll try to answer the second question why. Andrés Ingi Jónsson's senator on the way. At one time, Christian religion was self - determination, it was only part of what you were supposed to believe, just as it is today, that you should believe that sports is healthy and that you should believe that the State's main goal is to ensure public health and that it is always a trumpet. Happily, the times will change, as the examples prove. I hope there will be more changes in other fields, but at the time, the religious life of Iceland was more uniform, and then I understand it a little better. I think the people back then thought it a little bit like they were building school or something like that. This was just part of mankind's basic spiritual needs. As I say, the times change, and now we've come to the conclusion, I hope, this isn't exactly that way anymore, but it's a personal belief and belief in life, and it belongs to whom and the state should not be of particular importance. According to this, it is not unusual in itself that the State will support all activities, even religious activities, as long as there is equal support, as the same goes over all. That's mostly what I want to fix by taking away this monstrosity, I want to get rid of this particular species of potential discrimination. It's good enough for me that it's possible. There are only two ways, that is to define this more narrower in connection with the Church that I believe is the wrong way, or eliminate this article, and that's the way we should go. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u77	Madam President. The provision here for removing law has been determined by certain social differences. Like a snooze. paritaprevir For example, while others wish to interpret that, in the light of the Treaty, in view of the equality laws of the Constitution, and where the church is not specifically stated in this section, some people of Hrafn Gunnarsson's Helgi mentioned in its own good and careful review. law on the Christian Fund, this will lead to the taking up of similar facilities for every registered religion. This is the interpretation that Reykjavík has been followed, for example, and that has been discussed here. I will not think further about the interpretation of these provisions. Hv. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson has done so very well, and since then it has been mentioned here in protests too. I would like to focus on this unnecessary burdensome duty that the current Christian treasure laws place on the rural communities, especially on the constitution of local independence and on the 8th paragraph. Substitution of decision rights for the disposition of local assets, that it is in the hands of the rural communities themselves. Thus, at his meeting on September 19, 2013, the Council of the City of Reykjavík concluded that in the future it was most desirable that religious organizations would eventually be gathered around and paid for lands in the city like other people who care for important activities. In the opinion of the city council, it says under the permission of a president: ▪ It is a matter of time to oblige rural communities solely to reserve valuable cities without charge for the religious organizations seeking it. This was taken from a smaller section of the mayor's office as well as a petition to the General on the review of the law that has been implemented here by force. paritaprevir Sverrisdóttir. There was a total political agreement that this law had to be removed. Then it's ideologies. The work of religion and principles is important. I think we can all agree on that. But there are only other functions. Whether the evidence is in particular to obliging local communities to contribute free property to sports companies, private music schools, charities, to a wide range of health - care activities, these days are not available. That's not what we're talking about. In fact, rural communities have felt free to dispose of their possessions without charge of such organizations. There is, then, some strong evidence that it is not safe just to eliminate this arrangement. law on the Christian Fund. Discrimination on the basis of religious beliefs is not compatible with the community in which we want to live if we walk on another level from the interpretation that I have come back to. It is also not necessary to fulfill the duties of the State, according to the King James Version. 62. g. The constitution, it goes beyond the constitution. In this discussion, however, the most important thing to me is that our community's right to determine the disposition of their possessions is protected. That is what we are measuring for today, that there is an unnecessary and burdensome obligation to be withdrawn from the law. We want the provision rights of property in the hands of local societies and that the law reflects society's demands and priorities. This article agrees with the Council of the City of Reykjavík that rural society should not be obligatory to other valuable cities. I hope there's a unit among the council to secure the bill. Many good thoughts and questions have come up during the discussion. They are all of this because they are addressed to the committee when, if and when hopefully, the matter comes to her, and that is related to the person involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u78	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. She stresses the decision rights of her community. I can say that it is important that our rural society is not pressured to give valuable weights. What's happening to me is that we're taking this discussion when Iceland is becoming a population. When we're going toward more diversity, which we should be celebrating when more congregations start to work here, we say, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, religion doesn't get free weights and this isn't going to work like this, there's way too much variety in this. The church remains in a very strong position. Hv. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson spoke extensively of the equality in the constitution, etc. I understand exactly what it's all about. But when we look at the religions, and that religious differences are not to be made, and it was important for all to enjoy themselves and all to sit at the same table when it comes to religious beliefs and activities, we should say: "No, we can't do this because there's so much variety, as soon as we celebrate it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u79	Madam President. Thank you. Harðardóttir It's a very important discussion and a very important question that she's rolling up there. I can totally agree that I think the discussion, what took place in the field of Reykjavík, about interpretation of this law, has brought some attention to this law, someone who may not have realized it. In my mind, however, the self - determination rights of the rural society are at the focal point. From now on, I believe that religion - because it does not rule out in any way, not according to my best knowledge, would have the opportunity to dispose of its possessions in this way - certainly be on an equal basis as a conflict and an interpretation as it is today. Like a snooze. A senator threw it hard. paritaprevir Hildur Sverrisdóttir raises this question about equality earlier. It's just something I'm counting on getting good publicity on a committee, so we're getting the best of it. It's certainly not - and I think I can only refer to the discussion that took place earlier on the talk of the 1st transporter - the plan to set matters up so that we are faking for other religions to sit at the table, so to speak.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u80	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answers. When a discussion on the construction of congregations and religions came to the fore, it was because it was thought that the mosque should be built in such a fine place that it was not a good idea to do so. What I'm afraid of is that decisions like this will contribute to the discrimination between religions and congregations and give local societies the opportunity to say: We are here with the National Church. We allow no other religion to build but costly prices and in some special place we choose for them. I don't object to your bill, but I urge that these things will be carefully treated carefully on the whole committee, but those things will also be rolled up and they'll just be said in Icelandic; just look at the examples that existed and what they've led to. I want to ask you why. A senator whether she knows whether this has caused trouble in other rural communities across the country, other than the example I picked up earlier; and perhaps it wasn't even a problem but a discussion that went through.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u81	President. I thank you again. A senator for his input and questions. I think, in the end, that this is a need for a reminder that we will react sooner - when we are stuck with songs that have become a child of our time, the times have changed - but we may be doing in this situation. We wake up to the fact that there is a discrepancy, that there may be differences in religions, even though the situation went the way it did in Reykjavík a few years ago. Again, I think there will be a discussion on this subject, the review of stakeholders and the people involved, the people who will be able to proceed with the situation, and possibly improve it. So I think there's an important discussion coming up. Now, about the question, if I know that other societies have caused a case, I don't know how to get into this situation. I know, however, that many people have this obligation to give up land - even where there is a shortage of precious land, I don't talk about income - causing some problems.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u82	A respectable president. Three things, quick. It was introduced into a transport address that had been convenient for more than one transporter. So this is the second time I know of this assembly that it would have been good. There was also a problem with access to digital structures. That's where I was and why. paritaprevir Elíasdóttir Flanders, daughter of Elijah, at least to that extent, 1 but had to choose. Just because I brought the idea first was why I was a 1st transporterman on that bill. After all, we, according to our work on the bill, should be both 1st transporter. I also wanted to shoot because we're dealing with Congress. As much as I wanted to have finished this Senate case, for the most necessary, there's another Senate case in the middle of 2nd. which I think we should try to finish first. Only materially. I was a tourist in Barcelona a few years ago. There are an exceptional number of churches and extremes of luxury. There you go on special trips to see churches that are remarkable. But then I began to wonder, why did people go so hard to build churches or places of worship or what they might be; why not the same energy in school or in health? I feel that it is so obvious that we are more focused on building schools and health centers than on churches. In that sense, I would like to send it out into the universe that we should better consider our duty; quite a lot of money goes to these religious gatherings that could ever equal, that I know, only to be a good social home, a multiuse. But that's just my opinion. But I found that an interesting line that flew into my head when I examined these churches and pondered at the same time the health and education systems were at home.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u83	A respectable president. I keep silent because I know what to do. A senator is a great amateur for inquiries. This bill has not been established, but it is helpful for me for the discussion to remind me that at the 144th legislature, the Minister of Justice responded to a request from Ingibjörg Ingadóttir on grounds of religious and biological institutions. It was specifically asked, and there were examples of two recently inhabited churches, one of the Godly churches, and the other of the Linda churches, which were the two church churches that had been built ten years earlier. A minister was asked to draw out the effect of a five - point departure. would have had them on certain churches. The minister points out that for each church, society had survived some 15 million. K. the cost of perforation. This is the result of religion. And on top of that, you'd be expected to have a weightier range of 345◯372. K. for these churches. Something that comes in the local funds every year, but it doesn't, because of this article. I realize that there may not be a direct question in this, but I suspected that the premise of the year would be interested in being pointed to this good old inquiry.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u84	A respectable president. No, it's a very good point. At any rate, if the change is made as it is presented, it would make it possible for the current churches to pay real estate and so on. There's a very good addition to the discussion. There's nothing more to say about that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u85	Mr. President. I apologize that I did not get to ask the first two speakers, who are also the couriers on the bill on this point, so the point I'm going to ask did not come directly into speech. Senator. Hv. The 1st transferer Hrafn Gunnarsson can then pick up the thickness and whistle behind the discussion and answer the question in a special speech if he has the tendency to look at it. The proposal assumes a 5th stragg. a law on the Christian Fund. Transporters suggest that this is no longer really the duty of rural society to provide weights under religions and institutions of life. Then comes a question that I've only wondered about. By doing this at this point, without having any objections to the religions that have not already been given these provisions, are we not taking the place of today and thus developing a stronger position in this regard than in other religions? Is it not against the goal of the bill to create this position? Does it not, then, even have to have some kind of sunset rules or such that enabled other religions to achieve the same benefits before the law is canceled?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u86	A respectable president. It makes an endless circle. If we keep it in, something new will always come later, and the church will have to build new churches all the time. She's been getting these benefits so far, but from now on, the local churches, like other societies, can't get the finesse for the future churches. In fact, as mentioned in the previous inquiry, real - estate fees can be paid to the current churches. There is nothing to say that they are excluded from them anymore. I don't think there's any sunset rules that would have to be permanent, other than the time of the bill and what it will be like in the Committee, whether the current applications fall under the law as they are now or after a change. If we had any sunset rules, I'd say we're creating a prospect for the future religion or the philosophy of life in order to try to get into this deal too, and I think it's unnecessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u87	Mr. President. Like a snooze. Harðardóttir So now we're slowly turning into a population, and I'd like to say, "I'm happy to say, that's just great. It's great that more and more people will want to come to Iceland. It's great that we're not all going to share that opinion. As we look into equalitarians, we must make adjustments in legislation so that it does not establish what is right. Transporters are talking to some extent of injustice by experimenting with the long - term position of existing religions that have been given weights. The real estate thing doesn't solve that problem. For the resistance of free property, we cannot have paid afterwards. Although we started having some real estate fees paid now, the person still has a very big advantage over all the others. I do not agree with the senator that there could not be some sunset rules or that the religions that have not been given free land can continue to apply within some particular period of time. In terms of real estate fees, local societies are not simply to give discounts or to pay dues for their own property. A large number of other nonprofit associates are applying for such things to fellow rural areas. I don't know how we define religion in this regard, but I think for most of us, normal religions are not profitless. Some might even think that they are charity. How should we avoid this? [[The president calls.]] That's why I think we have to make it better than we do on the bill, at least. in the discussion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u88	A respectable president. I think we just don't have to get involved. In view of the bill, you can take from your rural society that you should get some land. As mentioned by the prime minister, they can continue to do so. It is their choice, then, to provide free land, even for nonreligious members. If we stay out of it, maybe it'll work just fine.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u89	Mr. President. It seems now that this issue is characterized by it, and must be counted as a compromise, that the fact that the people of Iceland were a Christian for 1,000 years is minimized. Our history and culture are marked by this fact. Only the Allied Council, is an earlier organization in the country than the church, but Christianity was adopted here as a historically known member of the General Assembly of the Þingrell in 1,000 C.E., according to the standard history of 999 according to the conclusion of Ólafía Einarsdóttir in the 1960's, written in Sweden. It is suggested in explanations of this bill that there may be a risk of a collision between the two branches of the constitution, i.e. 62. g. and 65. G., on the other hand, about freedom of worship and the State Church. Of course, lawyers must discuss this subject and will probably continue to do so. It should be noted, however, that this point is disputed. It is also so, Mr. President, that it might be a little negative, I must allow myself to say, in a case. It seems to some extent that it is continued with a group of poorly adjusted discussions that were running around the mayor's elections four years ago. It refers to social reversals and hatred speech with no mention of it. Of course it is, Mr. President, so you just put it right out, full of unsettled people who, in the force of social media today express themselves in a way that many find unbecoming desirable and uncoolable, and of course, it's unfortunate. To discuss this subject, I have to say that I don't fully understand it. I would like to quote a well - known and respected scholar, Professor Davíð Björgvinsson, who is now a judge of the National Court and the vice president of the Court. He has discussed these matters on his own website in an article entitled ◯ About Religious Freedom and Faith as the basic human rights of June 2, 2014. I will, with the permission of the president, refer to this article in two points. First, the author says that neither the European Court of Human Rights nor the Constitution guarantees an uncircumcised religion's right to build a religious home in Reykjavík, to the extent that this is limited by public rules and discrimination, without the trap of circumstances, and taking into account the uniqueness of the State of the Church, according to the same law. In the same article, the author later states: ◯ Less is under the official obligation to provide territories free of charge to build a house of prayer, to which it is said - to the authorities to do so, then all religions (at least 10 percent) are to be built. those who are active and have the required number of active members) sitting at the same table, taking into account different types of congregations and their different needs for such reasons, etc. Thus, there is no obligation to be equal to allow religious organizations to build a house of prayer, a number of cubic feet [m] on a pair at the Hallg Monster Church! That's where the author of the cry-in sign stands at the end of a sentence. It is true to also mention, Mr. President, that the question has been asked whether the deportation of municipal property, including property, to this purpose, or has always been supported by adequate legal authority on the handling of public property. I have to say, it's rather unfortunate that this point has not been given more extensive coverage. Perhaps this will lead to a closer look at this question and a good time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u90	A respectable president. I'm sorry, I assumed I'd discuss it. A senator would be slightly longer. Hv. A senator felt that this was a small part of the fact that the Icelanders had been a Christian for 1,000 years. I'm just going to make a note of the concept of a Christian nation. Nations are a collection of individuals, nations are not Christian or faithless, individuals are Christians, or unbelievers. Hv. Councilmen may disagree on that, no matter. Then I come across to a point about this: It has nothing to do with this bill. I don't quite see how it is. A senator would get it because the Icelandic story is certainly that most Christian, or that it is in any way reasonable or fair, that rural communities have to give free property to churches or religious organizations. I don't see the connection between that. All right, I'll wrangle. A senator who is interested in the Christian nation will be in a dining hall. I wanted to ask you what. Senator: Did he not become involved in social reversals and a negative tone, negative discussions, and hateful discussions, during the 2014 election campaign? I don't want to take any examples here in a pita and repeat what was said in that campaign. I could go and search the Internet, no doubt, I don't think it's necessary because I experienced it very clearly, very strong. I wonder what. In fact, a senator did not experience this in any way. I'd like to ask you, too. A senator: Is he to believe that these laws should be so that they were merely a matter of general churches, Christian churches, not religious temples, or places of worship, of other non - Christian congregations?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u91	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I agree that we can best discuss outside council halls the finer shades of the concept of a Christian nation. I think the Icelanders will fully understand the meaning of that term, but because of questions at the same time. A senator, whether I had not spoken up, as he puts it, a hateful discussion. [[Up front.]] Of course, I noticed that there was a rather negative debate - hatred is one of the seven deadly sins, if I may say the right thing; for a word is meant to describe strong feelings, and I shall not pass judgment on it. Of course, we do. A senator and me and others present, that in many areas there are unnecessary negative discussions and better opportunities for careful management and proselytizing than there have been in some places. We're not gonna solve it, we're not gonna solve it, we're not gonna solve it. About the other thing. A senator mentioned, how to understand Article 5. The Christian Fund is referred to as a church. I will not hide my intention to follow legal explanations here in the General Meeting chair, but I can say that for me this law is quite clear, that churches and churches are named at the meetings of Christian people. I believe that the constitution of the Constitution of the State Church supports that interpretation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u92	A respectable president. I'm not in myself looking for legal explanations, I'm much more looking for an attitude of course. A senator for what things should be. That's why we're here. We're not here to pass a sentence on the law. We're here to make it. Like what? A senator tells us that churches are specifically referred to, which are generally mentioned in Article 5. The law of the law. The Lutheran European churches are not spoken of, they are not spoken of as the National Church, churches in general. True, there are churches in the Lutheran European congregation, but there are also churches in the Catholic congregation, there are churches in the Russian orthodox Congregation and the Greek Orthodox Church, there are churches in the Baptist congregation, what you should call it, the Pentecostal congregation, and such congregations. Counts 'em out. A senator doesn't insist. I'm asking questions about the mind. A candidate, referring to churches of the Christian congregation, or only to that particular congregation, i.e. National Church?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u93	Mr. President. There's hope for it. A senator asks how things should be. A decision has been made on how things should be done. It's in the constitution. The National Church is particularly protected in the Constitution of the Republic of Iceland. I have full sympathy with that view. A senator, who may want to see things differently than what they are registered to the current constitution, including the regulations of the Icelandic Church. He has full democratic rights and, in fact, a very good position as a member of the body to promote changes in that subject. That's what I think is the point of it. That while this law is in force and in the absence of any change, the nations have a special status, they have special protection in the New World Translation. Of course, there is something that humans must respect.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u94	V.E.G. President. I just want to say something. This discussion will be in place. This law has a longer way of life than is mentioned here. A 1907 C.E. law that came from the World Council was about the National Church, where the church was ordered to turn his property over to the custody of the State, which took possession of these assets. A priest's fee was founded that was to be sold and rented, costing the clergy's services. I'm not going to trace the fate of that fund, but I'm going to refer to the final payment of the therapy made by the 1997 contract of state and church. The Kingdom preserved these assets, reserved for, sold, and gave as it should, including its own. to live in a small area today and, including the urban population in Reykjavík. The law of the Christian Fund then has nothing to do with the constitution, but the agreement is older than that. It was thought that the church had the right to build on its own land, for financial rights do not result, and at least it is the moral obligation of the one who receives the right to care for the interests of the one who had the right to take care of the rights. So behind the Christian Fund is a long story to be viewed in the same way as the 1997 agreement between state and church that is legalized in folk law. It is the purchase, the delivery of property against payment, and the payment of the payment that is the law of the Christian Fund, including the proper Congregation for the situation mentioned in Article 5. The law.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u95	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator very much for the lesson. I'd like to ask you what. A senator sees it as a natural trade between the two institutions, such as the State and the National Church, provided I have understood a lesson. It is true that the state will receive an exhaustive land from the National Church against paying the wages of priests and other things forever. In other words, the price is infinite. At the top of this, the state of rural society was to place territory under churches free of charge. Is this the dot in the first place? A senator was describing? Second, feel it. According to Christian standards, is this an honest business?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u96	The President reminds us that Icelandic is the Senate case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u97	V.E.G. President. This is a agreement between state and church and what I feel personally is a valid thing, the deal is in force. [[Up front.]] After that, we can discuss whether this price is forever. Then we will also be able to discuss whether the property entrusted to the State is forever as well as whether it is morally right in that sense. Maybe there's another discussion. That's the law, this is what they're doing, and this is the deal. The arrangement for building on this right of the church is her right to build on her own land because the original agreement was that the State preserved the property and was to sell and rent it out and thereby stand a stream of priestly and various other services. That was the deal. This is not about the fact that now the State is giving property to the church. As church property, it is in the sense of their law.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u98	A respectable president. Thus, despite all the glory of the church and all the glory and holiness that it may give to itself through the Holy Scriptures and all its features, it is the general body of law to set in the land, and it is the institution that determines what things should be. Not the church. It's not the church. It's this institution. Hv. A senator in his lawsuit would like to deny that this is something we can't affect, if I understand him correctly, he will have to correct me if I'm wrong about what he was saying. But if the message is that we here can't change it, that somehow we'll be due to the older work of state and Generalis at the time to force the local communities to give their property to the church or to hand them over to the church that they always had, if I understood why. It simply means that these contracts were made to prevent the General from making changes in this arrangement. This would be in harmony with the dishonesty behind the church meeting, which was very apparently and deliberately done to represent future generations who would want to change this particular point in their society. I'm not asking what. A senator on some legal basis. I'm asking you what's wrong. There's a senator. Now that we're here, we've come to this legislature to decide what things are like. In fact, we may even suggest all kinds of nonsense. We can suggest breaking contracts, that's been done, rather recently, and I don't want to. I'm going to say how I feel about the contracts that have been made even if I don't suggest that they've been broken. I'm gonna ask you again why. A senator: From Christian values if he wants to, he believes, is honest business to give up on earth to the State and receive the reward of priests forever and more and free land on top of it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Got it. A senator's honesty?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u99	V.E.G. President. The legal authority of the Icelanders is here at the General Assembly, where we stand and the laws discussed are from the General. We can certainly change that law, and I won't object to it. I feel, however, that we should obey the law. Talk about moral and moral matters that were mentioned earlier on the program of the council today, that is, how we should behave morally, is it not? [[Up front.]] It's a deal, and it's in full effect, and I think it's normal that we stand by him while he's in effect. I think it would be normal if we were to discuss the changes in that contract, then it's done on the right terms, and it's not going to be taken to some shorter baptism of legal explanations when you're about to come up and talk for primes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u100	A respectable president. First of all, I want to raise the Christian Fund. I'm just a little bit interested in legal aesthetics, and I always find it interesting when I'm an old law like this one, who's become more like a street because it's been abducted at 1,◯4. .., that was done in 1990, the same year that disappeared, 6,◯10. " Five years earlier, " he said, "they had disappeared. " ........................... par. are gone and part of 20. Now it is suggested that the 5th disappear, so in the end there will be quite little left to these laws. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] But that wasn't what I was going to make up my main subject. I've enjoyed the discussion. This is a matter that affects questions far more than the bill itself. I also find it interesting that the difficult road involved is that we can discuss it with respect for the religions and opinions of people whom these laws come to influence, whether they are Muslim communities that had been built with a stick of swine on a property they had given them or to the religions of Christians who see the potential of paying for the punitive fees they had other grounds to accept at such times. It's not a simple matter at all, but something I look forward to dealing with within the General and Education Committee. It's going there, isn't it, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u101	Presumably, yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u102	I suppose so. There's one thing I'd like to consider that I hadn't realized until I started looking at this bill, and that's the extent of it. It's like I went back to answer the question. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson saw the financial scope of this law in response to a request from Ingadóttir Ingibjörg on grounds of a religious and biological society. It revealed that two of the country's most recent churches had been paid down to tens of millions, to 15.1 million to God's Witnesses, and to 29.1 million, so for each building, it is an enormous cost to start. In addition, there is a permanent discount on the property laid down by the budget that affects the income of your community. For these two churches, it was estimated that the rent would be between 345,000,3372,000. The country has a fourth - hundred churches. If we just multiply it together, it will probably mean tens of millions of communities will survive on land rent because they would have chosen to take full charge of religion. This may be a great deal of interest to the communities involved, but, of course, for the irreprehensible religions. Various pleasant words have been made to fall. I'm not going to overdo much of Hanna Katrín Friðriksson's disagreements, talking about religious and biological research companies, we're going to let it lie in between parts, even more fun, thought amer was going to get competitive at the moment. þm. Hildur Sverrisddóttir applied to the religious organizations that have already been given property, which thus lead to other religions, which later come into the market and may have to buy their property at full cost. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I recalled a story that appeared on autumn days in which churches and religions are not assigned just any land. These are usually somewhat powerful and fancy buildings that need large weights in a very cool place, perhaps up top, perhaps where they appear from the distance. If the pure market laws were to govern, this would probably be a very expensive property as shown, for example. ... and here I am to the autumn point where a news report appeared in the November 17, November. that the tower would grind gold in Hallg Monster's treasure. You see, churches are attracted not only because they have a bit of a foundation but also because they are well - located and have a tower from which a good view is made. For example, in 2016, as 238 billion of the Hallg Monster Church's tower, a tourist stream has not been covered by a trawled stream. K. This is a huge contribution to the parish, and this is probably higher than the amount given to the subsidies the local community gives for all local churches, possibly several times that. This is another thing that I expect us to consider on the Committee. When we discuss these matters, I am, for example. I have mentioned the church meeting and the huge gap between state and church, which I think is reflected in the fact that the law about the church is more often than not more likely because it never takes over because it is so extensive and heavy that it has not been put in it. I think that there is good reason for us to discuss how to nurture religious and biological organizations, such as other public - service members of culture, as we would like to place athletes under some roof. It is full of niggers who have good reason for the public's support and support. Would it not be more pure to have the same rules or similar, rather than having special rules on the property of this kind of organization when other communities are not at the same table? Is it reasonable that the State collects social fees for religion, not soccer companies? There is another question about the equation that this case is not meant to address, but there is a discussion that I think is a full reason for us to start. Looks like it's down there. Gunnarsson I'm assuming that he does exist in that conversation, and I assume that we may have it sometime at the next legislature.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u103	Mr. President. I'm going to try not to extend this discussion much, but there may be a few views that I thought would be appropriate. Like what? The people of the council heard from here, in my answer to why. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson has more details on this matter that we need to consider. I trust each other. A top-of-the-art Board of Education. There are factors like that. paritaprevir Hildur Sverrisdóttir, think I was, came on with this competitive prelude or what a man can call it, it's certainly something to consider. I'd also like to mean that the views presented in the speech Þór Þorvaldsson. Jón Although they may obviously not be addressed directly in the context of this bill, they are of great value. There have been certain legalities. There have been agreements at some point. I suppose that's an agreement that has to be resolved. It may not be possible in itself to accept the contract from someone who has made it in good faith at some time. That's what I'm thinking. In fact, I think the problem we face, we can call it a problem, maybe a problem -- in a sense, the senators, I think, are involved in this matter with a good mind, trying to balance the position of religion in a small way by the bill on Christianity -- that we really need to take the discussion of whether we should have a national church. That's the discussion we need to take. I started my political career on being on the side of the line thinking we should have a national church. But I've moved on the other side of the line. I have come to believe that it is important for the National Church, that she will live on as an independent and strong institution - I call her the National Church, she would soon be called the European Lutheran Church when she ceases to be a national church - that it is a matter of life for her to take this conversation with honesty: Will she really want to remain a national church? Would it not be better off being equal to other religions and then in that position? Those who don't look up in the press, like hell. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson can read my talks on how I feel about this fine national church, i.e. My personal position. But she has nothing to do with it. It has nothing to do with it because we are a society that wants to be equal, or at least I believe it, we are a society that wants all citizens to have the same rights. Then we will not be able to take this discussion until later. About how we solve this as a boy. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson was talking about this position, that one church has hundreds of millions in income and others less than nothing, so it's natural to wonder: Do we have to start creating some sort of religious equation as much as any other member of society would guarantee that any religious movement that would not get access to the quality of the other people, if that happened? For the fun of it, I think I'll go for it. A top-of-the-art Board of Education should be fully equipped to try to find an landing in this case in accordance with the discussion that has taken place here. I hope the committee is good at that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u104	A respectable president. Thank you for this interesting discussion. As time passes, it tends to become more interesting when we discuss matters that have some appeal to the local church or religion in general. In my opinion, it's because we still have a state church here in Iceland. I'm still saying, because there's a time error that's going to be laid one day. It's just a question of whether we're moving on or going back somewhere. It is not critical of the State Church as an organization or as a religion. It is not a criticism of Christianity. I could put aside criticism of Christianity, but I'm not going to do it because it has nothing to do with it. It is about the role of the State in Christian religion. I believe that it is not the State's job to oblige societies to hand free territories to religious and biological organizations, I just don't think so. Hv. paritaprevir This is where Jón Þór Þorvaldsson went over the context of the church meeting. I thought it was the first time. A senator would just be confusing something with that matter, but then he went into it that there was some connection that surprises me, I didn't know about it, but I intend to look over. At least I'd like to say this. In the 5th. This law is part of a church meeting, if anything in that agreement doesn't mean changing these laws, it underscores what a tragic agreement it is. This underscores dishonesty behind the agreement, how it was used, and has been used to prevent future generations from ruling these matters themselves. It's dishonest. That's wrong. People are not to act that way, and especially people who call themselves Christians, i.e. If this is the case with the 5th parr. a seat at the church meeting. I'm going to get confirmation. I'm gonna go check it out. I think it's an interesting point. Hv. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson made quite good words earlier, which I would like to say and repeat. We are to discuss the matter of having a national church over our heads. We always go there when we discuss these matters. There's a reason, because it's relevant and it's important. But I would more reiterate the rest, and make them strong as the dog. A senator said, which is that we can have certain views about certain congregations or groups of living. These opinions are of no concern. It doesn't take a smart computer user to find out that I was in the management of a society called Civilt, a society of moral humorists in Iceland. I might in that government have sought that society would seek free property. I didn't do it because I think it's wrong. I don't want to do that. I'd rather change the law so that there's equality between religion and philosophy. I just want to reiterate and re-enact these good words. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson and make them mine again. As to the discussion here regarding the so - called competitive prelude to which religions have previously visited the following events, I find this interesting. Still, I wondered, " To what extent can I take such a thing, and it controls our choice of future arrangements as discrimination on the basis of religion? ' I don't quite see how we can afford to do that, because there's always someone who came first. What if we set this up in connection with gender equality? There's all kinds of head start there. At least what I find unacceptable is that we can't change this, that there's something in our history or our culture, or in our constitution, that makes it impossible for us to change this. So I'm not going to believe one second. I refuse that we can't change this. We can totally change this if we want to. The question is not how we feel about Christianity, whether we are Christians or whether we are members of the Church, or how we feel about it; it is all about equality for my law at least. That's all it's about. I finally thank you for the discussion. Of course, some of the questions that have been raised here will be discussed at the moment. A top-of-the-art Board of Education I trust will consider. Finally, I'd like to encourage specifically, it's not now the custom to do this, the individuals, the members of the community, and, in particular, religious and biological organizations, to post a review to the General on this matter because it has to do with the larger question that is what is the role of the State in religion. Finally, I'd like to finish this talk by thinking about it: Is it not a little strange to be standing here in this pontta legislation of the Icelanders to discuss religion? Isn't that a little strange? I think so. I look forward to the day we can stop.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u105	Mr. President. I recommend here a bill to legalise a change in the law of liquor and tobacco, the laws on the extra income of state funds, alcohol laws and the price of alcohol and tobacco, the law on the surgeons and public health and the media, with subsequent changes (silver of alcohol). The fact that this is not the first time a matter of this sort ever happened to the council is not necessarily a matter. In recent years, this has been put forward as prime news; in 144, 145, and 146 C.E. However, this case is not different from the first but, in all principle, take into account the work of the General and Education Committee during the last term, or the 146th legislation panel. The bill suggests that the law on alcohol and tobacco trades, the law on the increase in government funds, alcohol laws, the price of alcohol, stated earlier that the State's patent of alcohol and tobacco stores will be canceled; that a small deal of alcohol with alcohol will be given free according to pre-filled conditions and a special focus on the growth of public health funds with increased donations, as well as allowing alcohol to be advertised with any restrictions. So this is basically a different subject, but previously it has been suggested that a small sale of alcohol at the grocery store be allowed. This is not only a matter of selling alcohol in special stores with alcohol and groceries according to a closer definition. Since the establishment of the combined alcohol - tobacco trade in 1961, all the general commercial environment has improved and society has become more open and varied. Alcohol and alcohol consumption have also changed dramatically at the same time. Wine has become a major part of productive food culture, and the domestic production of alcohol is taking place and has become industrialized, closely linked to landindustry and services to increasing numbers of tourists. Here we can also bear in mind the dramatic change that has occurred in short periods where the number of manufacturers of alcohol, especially beer and special beer, can say, has arose, but it is important to remember that the position of these small manufacturers is very different from that of the major manufacturers, in particular at the stores of Vienna, where it is seriously restricted to the well - to - to - sell type. In recent years the availability of alcohol has increased dramatically and the sales of the State with alcohol has increased dramatically. The pay period of the state's liquor stores has been enlarged, the quality of the watch has increased, and the network has been established. During the past 20 years, wine sources throughout the country have also increased dramatically. I find it important to draw this point in particular, in view of the fact that one of the main factors that have been mentioned against the changes in the State's monopolyism of selling alcohol is the very bioavailability and the public health policy. Little has been said of this discussion of the exact change that has taken place with a vast number of alcohol sales facilities. If I recall my first knowledge of tabernacles, it was set over a table in three places, I think in the place of the seas. Today, these are modern shops, which are all over the capital area, including the main commercial standard of the capital area. Bioavailability has grown dramatically in recent years, and you have not heard the same objection to public health, as is often seen when it comes to breaking the state's low profile. In 1922, at the time of this dramatic change, arrangements for the state's patent to use alcohol have been essentially unchanged for nearly 95 years or since strong alcohol was again made legal consumers. The only major and significant change on legislation can be said to have occurred on March 1, 1989. Such a legal, monopoly system inhibits normal, healthy competition and impairs the freedom of people to work. Long ago, it is time for a change in the arrangement discussed here and the purpose of the bill to legalize the necessary changes. The main element of the bill is, however, the removal of a private alcohol exchange. By taking up the government's patent on a little liquor and by allowing privates to sell such items to the level of certain conditions, it is assumed in the bill that alcohol will be generally allowed to be sold in special stores, with food and beverages, instead of supermarkets and grocery stores. Then it is stated in the bill that a minister in the Regulation can require that certain rural communities be allowed to provide a reserve from the special store principle, although it is considered indiscriminate because of the small person to run a special store only with alcohol, in which case alcohol should be kept in restricted spaces or in special space within the general stores, even though it is not a visible customer of the common store. When this is done to meet the views that the arrangements of the special plant could prove to be adverse on the land. It is not suggested in the bill that ATSVR will be stopped on alcohol. Nevertheless, the implementation of the government's patent of retailed alcohol calls for review of that activity in the light of competitive rules, and it is important that private people fail to compete with the State in retailed alcohol. Then the bill assumes that drinking ads will be allowed under restrictions. These restrictions are more important than the fact that any alcohol ads should follow warnings about the dangers of alcohol abuse and should never be directed to children and young people for advertisements. You should carefully step down to the ground because of the speciality of alcohol, which is not to be used for general consumption, so it is emphasized that alcohol advertisements are primarily aimed at presenting the product in connection with its sale or production. It is fine in this context to bear in mind that in many parts of the country alcohol advertisements are found despite the ban on advertising. The primary purpose of the change is to control and monitor alcohol advertisements better than today and to balance the unreasonable situation between foreign and domestic parties. In the current court, any advertisements on alcohol and individual alcohol products are forbidden, but this includes discrimination in the way that foreign producers have access to advertising that appears in this country whether it is advertising in foreign contests, on the Internet, or in other audio, print, or videos for example. By increasing networkisation the bioavailability of consumers is greatly increased by alcohol advertising, and it is therefore clear that the current prohibition has the highest impact on domestic production and domestic product development. It has also been observed for a long time that the largest alcohol producers, who also produce posts, advertised this product by appeal to a similar alcoholic product, have thus been overlooked by the ban, thus enjoying a competitive advantage in a presentation for their production capacity. It should also be said that if a small sale is released without a commercial ban, it will create an imbalance between a little sale and a total sales point. So small halls would be the next monotonous plan for goods. The changes proposed to the legal environment of a business party with alcohol are in line with the indications received through a early bill and were consistent with the minimal rules of content and format of alcohol ads presented in the European Parliament and Council Directive 2007/65 of 11 September 2007. Then the bill has been reviewed by the work that is published in a financial group report on the global re-examination of alcohol law from January 2010. It suggested that advertisements for alcohol should be used with restrictions, and in fact, similar suggestions can be found in recent guidelines on the media work environment here. At the same time, contributions to prevention and the growth of public health are suggested to be greatly increased, with a special price today of 1% alcohol charge and a public health fund increasing to 5%. It is also suggested that a new provision be added to the surgeon and public health law, where public health funds will be made to emphasize special emphasis on preemptive work in the field of alcohol protection in the years 2018-022. The change in alcohol - tobacco trade, as presented here, includes only the fact that non-publicity can take care of a small deal of alcohol as well as rooming on literature for advertising. Thus the bill does not include suggestions for changing alcoholism, emphasis on tobacco prevention, or the government's revenue system on this subject. I think it may be important that when we consider the point of this matter, most people agree on the importance of instruction and prevention when it comes to drinking alcohol. This is precisely why contributions to public health will be greatly increased, and no one is reducing the great success we have achieved in reducing e.g. From youth drinking here on the land. It is worth remembering, though, that we have achieved this primarily on the basis of education and prevention because access to alcohol has increased throughout the period of this success. It is completely biofuel that alcohol today is compared to what was at the time when teen drinks were at the worst, perhaps about three decades ago or so. In reality, this bill, is the primary question: Is the core of our alcohol - control policy that the state alone carries a little alcohol because of private homes selling alcohol in a variety of ways, not in stores? Last time I checked, there were e.g. A wine license issued in Iceland, around 1250, all of it more or less alcohol saving permits released to private hands. There we trust privates to take sales of alcohol, but for some reason not when it comes to the level of sale. I do not agree with the approach that success in the prevention and education of alcohol, especially in young people, will be achieved only by state worship at a small level. On the contrary, I feel that it does not matter in that comparison and that it is perfectly normal to look to the natural competitive environment in this area, which in the case of others, will finally take this step and eliminate the monopoly of the State on that particular product.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u106	Madam President. Thank you. A senator reviewing this fine bill. It seems that the one being present was a bill, correct as it appeared after a lot of work at the council, at the second - to - last assembly, at the 146th Council, where it took a very big change after a lot of comments and a lot of work at the council, so I know this bill very well and can testify that it was a great deal of work to do it. Then it may be strange that I'm standing in front of you, but I've got one thing I'd like to ask a messenger in, scene 14 g. where it is stated that the pay period should be between hours. 11 o'clock in the morning. 22 o'clock in the evening, but the government can issue that appointment. I wanted to know if there had been a discussion that should still be placed on the farms from the moment we left the bill so that certain rural governments couldn't even have time off.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u107	Thank you. A senator resists. It's quite right and important to remember that there was a very, very good job being done on the National and Education Committee at the 146th legislat in this case, and as mentioned earlier, this case is based entirely on that. The answer to the question is: No, it has not been discussed, but the point is important, for the thought of this law is not that it really is possible to cut down the amount of time paid to nothing with such a warrant. I think it's important for the committee to keep this in mind about the case that it might be wise to set some of those floors.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u108	President. I thank you for that, but it's not a big deal in the big context of things. This is primarily a key bill to replace the State's monopoly on legal consumer products. That's what it's all about. I'd like to follow, since I'm not here very often, I'd like to encourage you all to join me in completing this matter. It's been a lot of work. A lot of comments were taken to investigate and respond, and I can claim that the changes presented here are for improvement, they are modern, and they're being added to the prevention and general public health benefits we would like to make, so I just thank you and wish you luck.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u109	President. Because there was no question directed to me in this counterargument, I intend to take this opportunity and do what I refused to do in my speech, which is to say that the couriers of this bill now are members of the Parliament, the Independence Party, the Controversies, and the Pirates, and the representatives of the bill based on this bill were members of the Independence Party, Action, Pirate, and Bearts in their time. I agree with what you're saying. Senator, I think it's time for us to take this change to a serious opinion. It's an arrangement. It is unmistakably true that we have the strongest conditions for selling alcoholic beverages in all the northern parts of the world, even though we like to compare ourselves with them. In this context, it is also worth remembering that this case has been boiled down to one simple object, an amassing of state isolation, nothing else. The legal environment of alcohol sales is certainly being sharpened, since it may be more necessary than before if private sources are allowed to sell alcohol into retails. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u110	V.E.G. President. This matter of Congress is a lifebloody devil. Hv. A merchant said the 1961 liquor and tobacco dealers had been combined in the State's Alcohol and tobacco trade. I want an answer from what. A senator's record of how much drinking alcohol in a clean alcohol source has increased since it was taken. I'd like to ask you what. A senator expects this bill to add alcohol to a person's clean alcohol consumption. The last time we made a dramatic change in the alcohol industry in 1988, 1989 when beer was allowed, alcohol consumption has increased from 3.7 liters to 7 liters. Now I'd like to ask you what. A senator how much will be added to each person's consumption of pure alcohol per year will be the law of this bill. Number 2. How can you tell? A senator of the income to himself? Now the government's liquor store pays six months' time. [[The president calls.]] Counts what? A senator who will continue with these departments?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u111	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. It is true that in recent years alcohol consumption has increased somewhat in pure alcohol consumption. A senator points out. Two things would be good to keep in mind there. I think most of us would agree that Iceland's drinking culture is far different and much better today than it was 20 or 40 years ago. This is the moderate consumption that has increased at the expense of abuse, which is greatly improved. And I think it's good to also keep in mind when we talk about these statistics that so far, about 2 million tourists per year are streaming on these consumer counts. It could be used in a way that allows for about 70 of you. a man on vacation every day. We all know that we may drink a lot more alcohol in foreign lands than at home every day. I think our tourists do the same thing. [[The president calls.]] I can see, however, that I've had a crack in time. I have to come to the second question in the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u112	V.E.G. President. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson. For information, the 2012 number is 7 liters. At that time, the number of tourists was not as common as they are today. It's a walking system, it's a bad idea. Senator. The World Health Organization may be completely at odds with what it is about to happen. A senator. It says: All nations in Europe should go on the same path as Icelanders, Norwegians, Sweden, and Finns to reduce the damage to alcohol consumption. It's something else. A senator said there was an improved culture of wine. We have a record in domestic violence. People are still being beaten in the Eastfield under cover of night. The booze, what's she scraping us for? For the first time, significant cirrhosis. What makes it? It's the drinking, the drinking. How is this improved culture, huh? Senator? I want the answer. One more thing about the increase in sales here. There was talk of increases in the majority of the country's TVR branch offices. The country surgeon's sales are the wine - feeding grounds, 1,250 licenses, which were 150 a few years ago. [[The president calls.]] How is this going to fix the situation?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u113	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. I think it's pretty clear that we may not agree very well on this subject. In fact, it sounds like something. A senator and my names would be next inclined to reduce the number of wine stores and to close a considerable number of wine - feeding facilities in the city to stem the trend. A senator describes. [[Up front.]] I just don't see eye to eye. [[Up front.]] I think it's a simple matter. Alcohol is legal. This is a warning against excessive drinking. That's why educational and predestination work is extremely important. But to restrict human freedom for sale of legal products or in an unnatural way restrict the individual's freedom to access that same product, I don't think it is the right thing to do. You're right. A member of the U.S. National Institutes of Health (WHO) points to counseling, but it also does well to bear in mind that the Agency contains a huge number of factors that would be the preferred way for prevention, which reflects the very sum of all the procedures used by the Agency's member of the Member States. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There is no one way that works indiscriminately. And I repeat what I've said before, we have a much stiffer frame here than, e.g. in the countries of the North, where one might be referred. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u114	The president asks why. Councilmen to respect the deadline.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u115	A respectable president. I wish. A senator is happy to have brought up this matter. On the contrary to what many people think, I find this to be more interesting. We are often asked here at the council if this is now the most important and important issue we should be talking about, but it is clear that the community really cares about these matters, so I like to talk about them. But I would like to ask. A senator in punishment on the bill. I now laid and others, including. Councilmen Refining, recently forwarding a bill that was about to eliminate the prohibition on home drinking for personal use. I notice that on a bill of what? A senator and a messenger are the changes in criminal orders, but quite extensive, that I get the most I can see, which I don't fully understand. On the other hand, I would like to ask myself, " Is my personal consumption still illegal according to this bill, and if so, perhaps so? ' A senator can teach me something more about how to deal with these laws.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u116	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. The short answer to the first question about whether homemaking is still punishable: I think so in this sense, i.e. the agreement between the matter and the question would need to be taken into consideration. A senator referred to and to this bill here. The central review of punishment laws is the attempt to sharpen and better define the already existing penalty frame and, in the same way, to reach a free retail store. This is a point to be careful about in the work of a committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u117	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. You see, I had eyes on the 2nd team. Section 4. It is stated, with the permission of a president: To prepare alcohol for personal consumption or to sell. And there it is, how to punish, according to Article 27. Their law. For a bill of what? A member of the council and a member of the shipping sector are the same as the B-in the first section of Article 17. The bill, which says, by permission of the President: ▪ Although not commercially available, he produces alcohol for personal consumption and sales. It was interesting to me. But I just ask them why. A senator, so that we don't go to a lot of legal technology here, whether it's open to introduce changes into this bill that would reflect the exception of domestic rock for personal consumption, according to the bill that has been submitted before.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u118	Madam President. The answer to a question why. The senator is yes. I'm open to that, because I myself am a huge fan of the beer culture that has developed and that has often been born from home brew. These small producers of beer that have grown up in many places have become a very entertaining part of the flea, creating specific characteristics. I think it's good for us, too, for tourists, for ideologies directly from farms and Icelandic characteristics; Icelandic beer, etc., which is actually in many cases moving out. I think it's a good idea to feel this way and make it legal.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u119	Madam President. I think it's a great bill that's said to be about alcohol and tobacco, it's a little about alcohol, it's about business freedom. I think that's an arrangement for shopping and services. The thing that caught my attention is that in an explanation of 14 pars. The bill considers permission to sell alcohol as a small sale. It says: It is suggested that the principle be allowed to sell alcohol at special stores with food and drinking products as well as special stores with alcohol instead of in supermarkets and grocery stores. I have to admit, I just don't understand what this camp is that sells food and beverages, but it's not grocery stores. What kind of stores sell groceries but are not grocery stores? [[For example, it's big markets.]] It doesn't stand in supermarkets and grocery stores, which is then theirs. As far as I can see, this is the first step in making markets sell alcohol. [[The president calls.]] The next evidence will be in the name of freedom of business. If another camp is allowed to sell alcohol, can we forbid the major markets?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u120	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. In fact, I say that freedom of business is not an invitation to shopping and service, which is open to consumers, which is primarily to their benefit, whether in the field of liquor, grocery store, fuel, or elsewhere. We believe that competition will eventually bring us a more varied variety of products and if I do not have high expectations for lower prices when it comes to alcohol, the majority of the prices on the part of the government. About what question? The senator's comments are very clear in the 14th chapter. The bill: The European Commission shall only grant a small sale to the special store falling under Class 47.2 (suspent on groceries, drinking products and tobacco in special stores) Clearly, markets do not agree with that authority. This makes it clear that large markets would not be permitted to sell alcohol on that basis. This is exactly what is being compared to the bioavailability point, not increasing the bioavailability from the current level.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u121	Madam President. I still don't know what these grocery stores are. Does this mean, then, that these are some small shops that sell sandwiches and yogurt and can sell alcohol? I just can't figure it out. It is clear: ◯ large markets and grocery stores I can't believe people are also the simple thing to think that big business chains, e.g. Bonus, don't just open little cute shops. They can do it. We know there's gonna be a few races on this market. Of course, the markets will be those who really sell alcohol, and it will simply be few and less choice.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-57.u122	Madam President. Of course, it's fun to do that. A senator is concerned that this will create an environment of few people. That would be an immediate improvement, since there is now a monopoly, there is only one person who can be sold. Actually, I'm not afraid of that. Of course, it could be a point that the committee wanted to consider on the subject. Do they think that this needs to be defined clearly? This refers to a clear category of shops. It is clear that special shops are being referred, of course, to anyone who is allowed to open a special store. However, it would not be a supermarket or a grocery store in that sense. It would have to be in a special store. That's perfectly clear.
