ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u1	I want to draw attention to what. All of the council members say that we have a guest at the Assembly Hall today; the president of the Greenlandic Parliament, Lars-Lars-Emil Johansen, at the council. The president of the Greenlandic Parliament is visiting the International Assembly Hall in connection with a work visit to Iceland. I would like to welcome the president of the Green American Parliament, Lars-Lars-Emil Johansen, to the Assembly Hall. I expect his visit to Iceland to further strengthen the good relationships between our countries. Lars-Lars-Emil Johansen has been one of the most prominent statesmen in Greenland for decades. He became prominent in a new generation of Greenlandic leaders who fought for an increase in domestic government and the self - control of Greenland. His name is often mentioned in the same breath as his associates in that struggle, Moses Olsens and Jonathan Motzfeldts. Lars-Lars-Emil will disappear from the council later this year when the election will be in Greenland, so it is very pleasant to have him visit now. Allied witnesses of the presidents of the Greenlandic Parliament and the Greenlandic nation are friends and respect. Wait a minute. All the councilmen, that they should answer my words, that they should stand up from their seats. [[Senators rose from seats.]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u2	A respectable president. Last week was an idealavitation. This time, the weather was rough and difficult to travel in the South Sea. The members of the Independence Party had prepared a six - day program to begin at the Cape on Sunday, but because of weather conditions, only two days last week became useful to us according to the program we had made. It was interesting to meet those we met, though. We independents put special emphasis on meeting with police, rescue teams, and ambulances in individual places where we could reach them. It had a good time. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason, a special detective for law enforcement and rescue matters, has been prepared. So it was very good to have your pulse on this vital function. As I've said here before, it's the police and nursing homes that keep the work going. It's the same thing in the sea. If you need one man in the crew, the rest will do better. That's the police and the help departments. It's a hell of a job, but they're also down to the fact that the police team is short-handed, and today, when we're in here, 10% of the police in this country are sick at home. That is the daily supply of the illness of policemen because of much concern and stress. We, this nation, need to improve the quality of these relationships, and we also need to improve the situation of those working in nursing homes because they too are peoples. The people there always need to make up for one turn because they need a man in a ship. Let us work at improving that in this room.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u3	V.E.G. President. The ICP, or Iceland Sustainable Fisheries, is the owner of the fishery that has been identified according to the MSC standard for hunting at major crops at Iceland's headquarters. MSC certification is a widespread witness introduced in Iceland several years ago and is the most practical certifying system for sustainable innovation. In other words, this may be called a health card. On January 4 of the past, the MSC Witnesses were withdrawn from grey - free fishing, and the cause was too much power from the teaiest, dieh, and sell it into the nets. This is a very serious story, and it has already led to the risk of business ventures by foreign merchants. The members of the European Commission have examined the matter thoroughly and concluded that these calculations are not relevant to any evidence. According to them, the data are derived from very limited information from very few boats in a very limited area. A marine chief called for a meeting on February 1 with key experts and authorities and is working on the case. If the data made are incomplete, as the National Association of Submarines claims, this is a very serious matter. According to information from the Seaway Department, they cannot measure the quality of the benefits they receive. Rather, they are processed as they are received. During the next month, gray - free fishing may be a source of great anxiety on the subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u4	Mr. President. Yesterday we received the disturbing news that an offer offered by a foreign hedge fund was offered in 13% of the State's share at Arion Bank. In fact, this process began in the time of the 10 - month - old government, which is likely to be burned to the point that only as few people have done so much harm in this short period of time as that government has. In contrast, the work of government is now under way, and the situation is that it is the remnant of the 2009 government and is subject to its leadership. V.E.G. Last night, the prime minister said that the hall of this 13% was a huge public interest. What position does the Minister take with these huge public interests? Yes, against them, simply said. In 2009, the present government is completing a bad journey by those who had begun in the days of the left government, with discouragement at the feet of foreign people all along, and this process is now under way again. [[Up front.]] It's really going to happen. It is very serious that this is happening because one of the richest interests in the modern nation is rebuilding and reorganizing the banking system. This is not done by lying flat in the face of foreign power. This is not done by ignoring that the government fund has premarital rights. This is extremely reprehensible and will be remembered for a long time, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u5	Mr. President. Last night's Parliamentary hall discussed transportation to the Western Islands and the importance of using the same fare in Her Seaf, whether to the landport or to the Pacific. I want to take my heart into it and encourage the highest. The secretary of transport to the fore in this regard. In this context, it is important to discuss flights to the island. The airline Eagles has been taking care of these for the past few years, doing so well. It's the oldest airline in Iceland, and it's taking on a very powerful new plane that seats 32 people and is to celebrate. Sadly, though, flying to the island is far too expensive. That's 32.800 bucks. flying from Reykjavík on an airport to the Western Islands. And unfortunately, subsidies are not on a flight. Of that 32.800 k. I'm going to get the money. It's gonna be $1,400 a.m. ...in the form of taxes. It is very unfair that this transport can be taxed in this way at the same time as public transportation, such as buses, will be paid up to 85%. We should encourage the public to make good use of the way they fly. That's what we do by canceling the cost of air transport. I'd like to encourage the highest. Unfortunately, a secretary of transportation, who is not here today, has to work on the loss of domestic flight costs.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u6	Mr. President. I was going to use my speech in a different way, but I don't think I can escape from going through the comments. paritaprevir This is Sæmundsson's village. I think there's some kind of misunderstanding going on with him. I hope he's familiar with at least the available data, available and available for the sale of 13% of the State's share in Orion's bank. Let us keep the facts straight and respect the facts. It is clear that in 2009 a contract was made that included the one - sided purchase of the State's stocks, the 13%, of Arion's bank. You can have opinions about how good the deal was, but that right was not tied up at any time, it could be activated at any time. The price was predetermined in that the formula was available, that included interest on government bonds plus 5% stress. The situation today is just when the beginning was and when the end was, how long it was. That's the final price. You can have opinions about this deal, how good or bad it was, but I hope no one has. A member of the hall is urging that the government does not accept the agreements made, no matter what the opinion of a person since making contracts. [[The president calls.]] What consequences and messages do people think it will send to foreign sources and to all of us if the Icelandic government is not going to respect established agreements?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u7	Mr. President. Among many projects at the University of Iceland's National Institute of Moralology, services are government service, including to provide advice and reviews on legislation. Especially is the Agency's work important when discussing matters such as death support, male circumcision, treatment of senators, surrogacy, error in scientific research, and organ transplants. The Agency also presents issues that we members of the Parliament are pleased to discuss in the field of environment and trade, those with refugees, the use of new technologies, and personal protection. According to the National Institute of Morality, it takes even we have made contributions from a wealth of state, as laid down in financial terms. But there is nothing in the budget, and the Agency needs to rely fully on the National Science Institute and private contributions. I think most of us can agree that it is dangerous that our community is thus open to possible conflict of interests by relying on external contributions. We may not have to worry about that, but rather the fact that such donations are not there. The pot is so full that it does not have a ball volume to keep a paid employee outside. I simply call for the reactions of the states to this position and specifically mention in many countries, including in the states of the North, there is a code-based board of ethics, which is the government's advice on policy development in this area to prepare careful legislation and assist with the sort of discussion I've listed here. I ask: What is the government's vision of the future regarding professional discussions on ethical matters? Or perhaps more: Does such a vision cover a future?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u8	Mr. President. I, like other members of Congress, went through the Southwestern District. We visited the local community and had a very helpful conversation with the people there, and we received helpful information. In any case, whether we were in Hafnarfjörður, out in Nesi, or up in Moso, the message of education reform was clear, including in the realm of organizational matters. But transportation was a key factor in all the message we received from our local societies. Whether we have an opinion of a city line or not, transportation was specifically mentioned in the main context. We're on our way to finish the double-freaking smokejanes track, put the Smokey Way in a park town, and they say "Waves" in Reykjavík, etc. Therefore, when we now have a government that was designed to build up wood in the country, it will blow away in order to promote, in fact, the country. The country's transport, that we hear it from the highest. Transporter to show the cards about transport plans only at some point in the fall. It's not like the highest. A secretary of transportation came to the empty cabin after his premeditated career, what. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, not at all. I know there were lots of pipes there. So we must pray to the highest. It's about joining members of our council and pushing to the highest level. Transporter to show the cards, to demonstrate transport plans, especially for rural elections. If things are true, I think it's more of a campaign plan for the forward party than the rest. That's why I'm now asking myself, " Why is the secretary of transportation afraid to show a policy plan? ' Maybe all the big words had nothing to do with it? Aren't you going to improve the transport around the southwest corner or in the country? It is clear that at the council, we call for a first transport program. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u9	Hv. President. I'm going to discuss a housing situation, but first, I'd like to thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson for turning our attention to the National Institute of Moralology for the University of Iceland. We often call it her opinion and knowledge, we know it here. It is true that the National Institute of Moral Science does not directly employ funding but rely on Iceland's Supreme Science and Administrative Institute, but it's probably a matter to consider the revenue model of the National Institute of Science. To housing, to a respectable president, I'm going to discuss the role of an apartment loan fund. It is from what was once debated about a competitive venture or about the fact that the funds of the apartment were critical and were being fought over the fund's existence in the field of the council. Today, the sea has a very important social function. To provide loans on social grounds, to provide deposit offerings for the public, to keep track of planning housing, and to cooperate with the rural communities there, to monitor the development of rent markets, and to carry out housing improvements. In addition, the Substitution Fund is required for housing studies, thus supporting government policy. Clearly, we today need a collective effort to carry all the resources and equipment, including camp loans, rural communities, and construction agencies to meet the tremendous need for housing building. In a new report on the economics of the apartment loan fund taken for special discussions here during the days, this lack is made clear. A respectable president. Here we need a joint, broad campaign, and I look forward to the change in the role of the fund that can further strengthen our understanding of our country and our community.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u10	V.E.G. President. I have to say, it was very special to listen to a talk. paritaprevir Kárason Björn's son earlier. For a moment I thought I was back in the Icesave debate, where people stood warning that there was a conflict between the International Empire and the big states, and so on. Hv. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason was standing and giving the exact same speech that could have been given at the Icesave speech together. We're discussing public interest. The fact is that inside Arion Bank is one of the things called Valitor, which is worth 60 to 70 billion. The bank's money is about 180 billion. No, the government is bent on selling and getting some 23 billion, some small interest in a hopeless agreement made in 2009 by the left government, the then government. For this, men boast. It's amazing. Then it says why. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason here is talking about contracts. But was it not so that the other side did not fulfill its end of the deal? For example, in 2009 he had no cash to fulfill the contract. Aren't both parties supposed to negotiate? What's it like? Then there are men who say we've had to meet these contracts? The Danish government, Norwegian, British, U.S.A., took the nation's interests above the interests of the hedge fund and released the banks that had to be redeemed. I went on my way to reorganize my system. But what do we do now? I suspect that this is the way, dear senators, that this was the freezing of the Independence Party's interests, to hang on the left shoulder, on the left. Let them walk around here like they've done in this government, lie flat, get their balloons scratched. By whom? Yes, those who made the contracts and wrote them and made them in 2009. What a tragedy to see! Where are the nation's interests in this, my independents? Why not take care of them? No, they lie flat under the hedge fund. I'm just reminding you that all the data, not just what you can access, like croak. þm. Óli Björn Kálmson said, all the data on this case must come up on the table immediately. [[The president calls.]] There's got to be an idea where people are really messing up and whether they've known better. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u11	Mr. President. In the past, the worker of the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter has made publicity possible. And I still have to cut the same knees. December 17th. I asked you a question to the highest level. Tourism, industrial and innovation ministers on business plans and the provision of aquifers of the New Arts Fund of employment. Last night, the answer finally arrived. A minister had requested every time to return his reply. So, frankly, I was to expect a thorough answer and a vision of the Minister of Creation after a two - month supreme treasure. Minister. Mr. President. What a disappointment. The answer is so dull that it was a surprise that it was taken two months to make it available. The answer tells us that the work group has been delayed but is working well. When asked about the Minister's plans and his goals regarding the fund, the answer is, by permission of the president: ▪ A position to see if there is any change in the fund law will be taken when the report is available. However, if the work force adds to the legislation, it is not realistic that the bill will be submitted to this council, this is too short. Mr. President. Is it possible for the council to offer themselves such a work ethic? Is it acceptable that it takes two months to say that a report from a group has been delayed and that it is waited? The other is so amazing to the highest. Ministers seem to have no independent opinions on the future of the New World Fund of employment. So it seems to me that there is yet another example of lack of direction and inactivity - or is that a problem? - Governments of Katrín's Jakobsdóttir and the highest. Travel, industrial and innovation ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u12	A respectable president. I'd like to challenge members of Congress and Congress to accept the bill for a change in elections to the government as soon as it happens to a 166,17-year-old minor will have a vote in the coming district election. The decline in election age strengthens democracy and is natural democracy development. The change is the actual introduction of the children's covenant to ensure the civil rights of children. Even now, at age 16, 17, the age class is responsible and gives of themselves to the community. They're criminal, they pay income taxes, and they've finished their school duties. This adjustment will increase the campaign program with the growth of young voters and guarantee a fairer age. Decisions made today are most likely to affect the younger ones. That fact requires that young people have access to decision - making and real power. When the age group is 163/4,17, it is more likely that young people will succeed. During the last total election, only one senator reached his 30's, but young people are more likely to vote for young people. They need their agents at the council and in the countryside. If democracy is to survive with future generations, it is extremely important. A respectable president. When young people don't vote in their first election after an election, they are less likely to vote in the future. We know that information campaigns and Obscurial elections have a positive effect on a campaign. # I accept the democracies project will support such results. The voters in the Obscurial election were likely to vote for the entire election. The last voter's entry increased most between the 2016 election and 2017 by 9.5 percentage points. This is where the parish passes. I pray to the government to support such projects and to ensure the election rights of 16 to 17 young men in spring. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u13	Mr. President. Recently, an increase in real estate evaluation was reported, an annual event. The increase is about 14% in an apartment building and up to 40% in summer houses or vacation homes. This increase in real estate evaluation leads to a corresponding rise in real estate costs, unless rural governments determine a corresponding reduction in the landing rate. This tax burden affects the entire population of the country. There are tens of thousands of vacation homes in this country. The labor force officials have informed me that such homes are commonly owned by union members, so these are the interests of the public. In view of these large increases, the contribution to economic stability can be asked for consideration and other factors. Those who suffer from such spells know what they are in store for. It's the tax cow, for such a house is a taxpayer, as one knows, irreprehensiblely. Mr. President. An increase in real estate costs occurs without anyone making that decision. There's only an institution in a town that'll re-evaluate this and raise the taxes. This basis for taxation, which the real-estate assessment is ruined and unacceptable. Because this is a debate over the work of the council, I allow myself to proclaim a bill of reforms in this subject, which I hope will be of widespread solidarity. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u14	A respectable president. During the last assembly, I presented a request for tips in the Generals' case reports for financial Affairs. She was not finished because an election was being announced. So I again proposed to the current council. A repeated lecture in the Senate stated that it would be better to switch the report to the Ministry of Economic Affairs, to the Minister of Health, and to the President of the Generals to give an appropriate answer to a subject that was heard under his field of activity. The request was made by members of the council and specialists of the council, and it received a multiplicity of lectures. In fact, the section directed to the President of the Generals was finally directed elsewhere for technical reasons. On January 24 of the past year, when the petitions came to the council, the minister of finance was allowed to comment on the request. Hv. paritaprevir A Birgir Ármannsson of a year said that the inquiry was too extensive and unsolvable, yet it included a financial minister along with more, a welfare minister, and the president of the council. Then they were encouraged to check the report request that I agreed to review. Since then, I've waited and pressed for ideas of reforming from the complainers, but I haven't received anything. Meanwhile, I went over the matter with the senator's experts who said that it might be possible to specifically say that a minister should answer just for the tips under his field of work, which should be said itself. No other comments were made, and the report request is prepared professionally with the loyal assistance of the senator's specialist. Requests are directed to the secretary of finance, the highest. The Minister of Social Affairs and the President of the Generals, who shall sum up the tips of the report relating to their Ministry or Council in the case of the president. A respectable president. I must make a serious comment to the intervention of the Minister of the Parliament's report requests, the judgment he imposed on the council's work, and the Senate quality check. The words of a minister on reporting request fail to pass. Those who have criticized in less than a month do not reason on their own issues. So I suggest that the reports be reassigned to the council program.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u15	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir for mentioning a transport plan or, rather, a lack of it. I choose to use this scene to do the same, which particularly draws the attention of the Generals on a position that appears on the Smokey Way, where it goes through Hafnarfjordur. It is a highway, a highway, a highway, leading to and from the nation's international airport and the only way to the capital area. Over the past few years, major increases have been due to the development of new neighborhoods in Hafnarfnarfjörður, and the large stream of tourists who have had a tremendous impact on road development, leaving the number of people who travel from job to job. The general assessment of the road safety programme for the town of Hafnarfjörður shows that by the year 2010, there has been an increase of more than 50% in the number of trafficways on the Smokey Way by Hafnarfjörður. It's supposed to be over 45. car averages every day. The same report also shows that the most serious road accidents in Hafnarfjörður and on Smokejanes Way, 42% of all automobile accidents in the countryside between 2010 and 2016 were on the streets of the Roadmaker. It is urgent to complete a double portion of the Kalsaluran chapter to the mold of Cysavík Road, but it is no less important to improve the two - road corners on the corner of Cappakika to Snækway Street. A preliminary project is expected on that cross line, but everyone is aware that it is not enough. So it is important to immediately consider the future solution at these corners, which are among the most accidental perforations in the capital area. Mr. President. A total policy must be set for implementation on a Leyjanes Way in Hafnarfjörður, where timing will be established and capital assured. I'm calling for a transport plan. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u16	A respectable president. During the past few days, there has been quite a lot discussed and written about the cost of Congress and the reimbursement on it. It is a pleasure to see that the council seems to be creating a parapolitic position to greatly increase the transparency of these payments. Of course, it is reasonable to remember that it is only natural for members of the Parliament to be paid back their job expenses and travel expenses. It is also quite normal that the cost is considerably higher for the local council than for members of the local capital. That should not be questioned. So the transparency is very important. This involves an important checkup for members of Congress. But to me it is not enough to stop there and say enough to increase transparency. It is clear that we need to adopt a review of work expenses rules. This caught my attention as I began to consider the rules of driving costs for members of Congress, i.e. The weight - control values and scale numbers on the drive a mile away and are tax-free under Parliamentary contracts, are considerablely high, while the head of the state is supporting the public's public drive and the rules for the public in general population when it comes to reimburseing the cost of driving. We cannot set rules beyond those that we intend for the public in this country to work and work for. That's a hell of a lot of money. The tax manager aims at 15 o'clock. a mile or more should be paid 65 k. every mile. Our average is probably nearly 100 k. This corresponds to revenues per month that may vary from 100 to 200 units per month. A.k., taking into account taxes, if driving, you'll be 15 ◯45. miles such as these have been in the discussion. It's not available. That's what we're supposed to change. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u17	Mr. President. Yesterday, there was no political issue. This may be normal, since Mondays are usually question days at the council. Today, there is one matter of Congress from the government, and there is a correcting of the law. What was distributed today is not a single administrative matter. We were expected to have some cases from the board on Thursday, but we can't see it. Perhaps there will be only one case from the government this week at the council, and there is a correcting of the mistakes made in the legal process. Mr. President. It may now be that the reason is the failure of the government, the work of a member of Congress, or that it takes too long to accept a view, but we senators cannot go into it here. However, if the government's going to pile at the end of the council, our work will be affected. I want to pray. The president is joining this case and making sure that it is inhospitable and is not intruding at the end of the period.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u18	Mr. President. I strongly agree with what. paritaprevir It's a whole new Oddný Harðardóttir about the government's inactivity. It's not that we don't know what the government was made of. It was made up of fixed position, of keeping power, but first and last of building wood. There is no barrier on our part in the government, I know, we'd like to support the construction of transportation systems, health systems, and education systems. Get to work. I agree with what. Senator. I don't take it so I don't want to say it. I don't know what to say. paritaprevir The Björn of Leví the son of Gunnarsson. I second my support to his request that the program be arranged for a report, including a report, on the part of the Parliament. will follow up indications from the WHO study report. It's crazy that this place has the highest power. The secretary of finance and the government of Iceland prevented a report request from being supplied, despite the fact that professional people have followed up on the council and have made extensive consultations and follow-up on guidance. This is a rare hearing, and has not happened for 30 years that the council, in effect, prevented the legislation of the legislature authority from reprisaling a normal report request. [[The president calls.]] I'm the highest. To put this report on the program. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u19	A respectable president. I must agree the criticism of the government in terms of presenting few cases and doing so late. It is the same song that was in the most exclusive period when another government was in control. But I'd especially like to mention one huge case in terms of personal protection, from Europe like a variety of other good things, and I'm something we need to introduce here. Enterprises and organizations, even those in society, often have to change their place in personal protection. The matter was to come from the Minister of Justice into this room in January and is not yet known. This means that we are taking it longer, we have less time to understand its consequences, and society itself is less equipped to cope with the changes to take place. That means that it's not good enough. We're going to have to have time to be careful. It's still the same old song that matters aren't coming in early enough. This is important. It's not about us senators, it's about national justice, that the public themselves can respond to the legislation made here by us. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u20	Mr. President. I come up here to say something. paritaprevir Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter of what we see here, i.e. Total failure of the government. I remember a few weeks ago, a month ago, that we were encouraged to show ourselves to the side of the sword and to join with the government in all the good things to be done there. We're still waiting. I'd also like to mention, if it should help, that last night's prepared question period here was neither more nor less than six of the highest. Ministers to speak for us, ready for the half-hour offered to us. And I'm sure there are more members of the council than I would say: Slip through the three of us, four, if it would help do the job. Still, the others would have that half hour in their plot of making some work available.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u21	V.E.G. President. I will do everything I can to keep myself this team, the President's conference board. Since I'm having a meeting with President, I'd like to encourage you. A president to use himself to get the government in a document and bring some of the cases into the council that she stated in some kind of document that was supposed to be the government's declaration of the government's policy on what case to be proposed. I wish they'd come. It may not be so strange, for if we read the government covenant, which we have all expected to have done once, because it does not have to be read anymore, there is very little to read. There's really nothing there. A broad government that focuses on the inside is spoken of. But then we hear from this symposium that the minister who has to be the most efficient of the infrastructure, i.e. Transporter's not coming up with any plans. He does not intend to show us what he intends to do in the infrastructure. Not even a matter should be brought to the council until one fall or God knows when. A matter to be stressed, though. What, then, about all the other matters that did not fit into the text of the Law covenant? They don't exist? A respectable president. Something needs to talk to this government. Can we all agree on that?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u22	Mr. President. I come here to join a lot of other people. It is not only that committees have repeatedly met, visits with no committees, rather than with the taking the case, but that there are many meetings that are extremely short because of not having a problem. We're a little bit in the first gear now and then, as we've often been, we're supposed to go to some turban when we're in May. Now, it looks like there is a full need to take charge of Congress if the government is not able to contribute enough affairs to get us to do something at the council. But I'm going to say what I've said before: The lack of organization on your part will not create an emergency on our part at May.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u23	A respectable president. I'd like to agree with most of the people here who have spoken about encouraging the government to impress them, to bring a case into our table, so that we can go to the full extent of our work. I'll wait for the same excitement as the rest of you. Councilmen here have spoken after the good things I know are coming here. I look forward to dealing with them. The positive effects may be that we have had plenty of time to discuss the matter of Congress now. But I agree with someone else. The members of the council here have spoken: The government must now spit in our hands and bring a case to us. I'm not sure I agree. paritaprevir Katrín Frirduk's Friðriksson to limit the number of ministers who represent the answers here. I know, having sat on the other side, it's good to be able to ask a minister whatever you can think of. But I'd like to go to the top. Governments to bring a case on board at Generals.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u24	A respectable president. I just want to continue with the discussion of the report request, and I would like to draw the attention to the president that during the discussion of the vote earlier in January, the costs of making these reports were mentioned, of the General Assembly and of the Congregation Book Study. He was tall. The reason for this request of my request is to not really lose the amount of money made of the reports and something will be done with the tips introduced there, it will be made of them, not just a bag that collects dust on a shelf. I think it is extremely important for the council that we complete the case, see where the tips are in the system, what the benefits we have received from the funds we published in the General's research reports, that we take advantage of the funds we have already submitted. I urge the president to make sure that the reports are submitted and that the Senate is urged to make a success of them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u25	Mr. President. I'd like to agree with this group's advocate of criticism of the government's inadvisability. There was no big word from members of Congress left green, and advance last fall. After the election, it was so great. Health Ministers and spoke of them as being there to save the health system, save the education system, save the infrastructure, and transport in the country. They certainly did not do so by means of financial contributions. But they may try to slip in some matters that solve it. Now that I'm up here, I'd also like to describe some new work ethic, express my cooperation and cooperation with government opposition. None of the things that have been left to this average period of time have been allowed to interfere with anything. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u26	Mr. President. I'm not gonna criticize you. Parliaments of the government's stand-up for describing a prime launch from the government. I just hope that their call will be accepted so that the number of primes from the government will begin to rise. I expect more people will be distributed below, but we'll see what happens with it. However, members of the government's stand may rejoice to have more time to discuss their own prime points, as it was on the program today. The point on their part, however, is justified in that this must not result in the formation of too many proverbs at the end of the council. Of course, it is the wise thing for all members to place this evenly over the duration of the Senate, rather than a large number of cases to be gathered before the council ends. Because of this special case, which was put on, well. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson was the CDC, which may have included one of the helpful visits of members of the Parliament to the institutions of the State, i.e. This morning at the visit of the Universal and Education Committee to the Federal Protection Committee, this was specifically discussed. [[The president calls.]] There, workers are preparing this bill in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice and, in fact, other advisers. It is hoped that the work will be completed, so that the matter will be returned to the council. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] No one question the importance of the legislation and the importance of it reaching this council, however, it must be able to establish the European Commission Directive and the Regulation on which this case is based is not included in the EEA Convention. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u27	The president asks why. Senators, watch out for deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u28	Mr. President. I feel compelled to join my colleagues. Einarsson The only thing I see here are the same old practice. It's supposed to be piled up in the final meters, worked hard and in a time crisis. It's the same old business that secrets still exist. Now we're going to publish information about the travel cost of senators until the end of the year; there's more transparency and the new process of doing it. The same old work, if not worse, with the unprecedented march towards what. paritaprevir The Björn of Leví, the son of Gunnarsson, to prevent his request from passing through the council. It's not a lot of news. I'd like to encourage the highest. A president to employ real new tactics, not this joke that we're looking at today.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u29	A respectable president. The following part is a case that is available because there was not enough time for a complete study of that subject. I understand that this will happen when there is no time. That's why I'm especially concerned that new personal protection laws don't get enough discussion and attitude here at the council. April 27th will come. It's got to be set up by now. Society's institutions must have had time to see the law as it is in its final form and to respond to it. They can prepare to a great extent already, but we must be able to master these laws so that there will not be a mistake like those we are about to make right for the next month. Time is important. It's about two months. It was due in January. I expected this to come in January so that we had plenty of time. I fear that we are still making the same mistakes, that we just don't have enough time to cover matters as necessary in order for the citizens of this country to defend their rights in some decent way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u30	Mr. President. I want to agree with what. The members of the council here have spoken of the fact that the government is beginning to suffer. The Constitution of the government has some 140 cases, if I recall correctly, but I think there are less than 15 people present at the council. So it's quite a tail. I think it's true that the government is about to leap up the cards and let us know what dozens of these 140 are that they're actually going to contribute and what's for ornamental purposes. I trust that now there is such a space of time for Congress that it will not be that it will only be available to committees and reviews and some discussion on committees, but it will continue to get first priority while possible and will be taken care of at the council. Although it is important to visit institutions and learn about their assignments, I think that time is better used now to put Congress officials through the council rather than to let them all fall asleep in committees, which will likely happen if I know the tactics of this government properly.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u31	Mr. President. I'm gonna take this opportunity and agree with my colleague here on the treatment of Congress. I don't think it's overhistory that most of the councils here, some of them from government positions, while some members of the administrative organisations, are being held up by the council these days. I point out that there are five issues on the convention program today. Seems like there's a lot more to be done and no way into the evening. Most likely, though, this is not done simply because there would be a meeting tomorrow or the next few days. I pray, encourage, and expect the issues now under discussion at the council, which will be held up by members of the council, to be taken care of all the way, that it is part of the new methods that have been advertised so much but only a little time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u32	The president has not noticed that further requests are being made to discuss his current meeting board. He would like to explain in this discussion that he now seems to be successful in finding reasons for a discussion, even if a matter is being planned. The other is true that it is important to pass matters in time from the government so that time will be used here for difficult work and that all will be able to do well. The president is counting on to the highest. The government is well aware of that. Of course, the President of the Generalis does not have direct authority over the executive authority in these matters. Regarding what has been discussed here on reporting requests and that they will be scheduled, the president will consider it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u33	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to legalize the changing of criminal treatment laws and the law of full penalties. The reason is that when the major changes made in Icelandic judicial legislation by the intermediate level were adopted in the spring of 2016, it was a mistake for the corresponding 221 gre. the law, the treatment of criminal cases, fell. This law includes discussing how to collect criminal expenses. There was also a recommendation on the obligation to cancel criminal costs in certain circumstances. This mistake was discovered now when the criminal treatment laws were updated and published in whole on the World Congress website in January 2018, at work at the Ministry of Justice, were submitted to a charge of charges. It is vital that we correct these mistakes. This bill is suggested that the law be added to the law again, in the unchanged form of, of course. In addition, the corresponding legislation on criminal treatment laws and the law on full punishment is provided. Other changes are not in the bill. The bill does not include any information relating to the constitution or commitment of human rights, as these are laws that have long been under law. So I suggest that the bill will be following this discussion. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u34	Mr. President. Now we were talking a little bit about this fast, often resulting in errors. The report explains that this was not discovered until autumn. But No. 49/2016 has been available on the Generals' web since their approval of June 7, 2016, a year and a half ago. How could it have been that it took so long to notice? How could it be that we've been doing something so fucked up for so long? The bill made mistakes that made no charge of charges. The rule is, if you lose a criminal case, you pay for it. This mistake made it impossible for a rule from January 1 when the law went into effect. From January 1, we have had 82 cases of criminal conviction. Who will pay the charge on these matters? There hasn't been any law to collect him. Is it on the government fund? The report says: Then the bill will bring no expense to the government budget. How can that be? Who's gonna charge this? On the basis of what authority? I'm asking you, how much does this mess cost ours this time? Now, this is not the first failure we see of this sort, especially in the case of courts and other things. At least it's a mess that may cost us some money. How much is this? Why does this cost us so much? Why was this not discovered before?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u35	A respectable president. It is as if in times past, it is often the case. The senators do not save the rabble and the pomp of speeches in this chair. The account speaks of great failure and failure, and it is not authorized to collect charges. From a talk or two. The senator will be the only person to be hired if he is in charge of the bill discussed here, on the nature of charges and legal rights to collect criminal charges. In XXXVI. section 6 on criminal treatment including of 233rd par. And 235. .................................................. The defendant will be found guilty if he is convicted of his sentence. It hasn't changed. The penalty here is merely in favor of the defendant, which includes the State's obligation to cover the expenses, temporarily, and also the authority to cancel the expenses under certain circumstances. This law and the law. A senator referred to, the law of No. 49/2016, did not go into effect until the end of the year and the criminal treatment laws were not updated until now. No one has ever been harmed by this, not least a government fund, because if this law cannot get back into the law, if this bill is not approved, then only government funds will profit from it rather than the defendants. It sounds like a reason. A senator misunderstands the nature and purpose of this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u36	Mr. President. I now asked for answers to questions rather than presumptuousness from the highest level. Minister of Justice. I would really love to get a bold answer this time. She may well describe the first sentence in 1st. 221st par. The law, then the 2nd. 2.g. The bill. Still, the question is, How can we understand it? It says, by permission of the president: ▪ The cost of paying according to court decision, decision, or decision by a convicted person should be collected from him, by means of financial training, and by forced sales. That sounds like a warrant to me. In addition, if you try to collect this, which is probably what you have to do because of the 82 counts that have been convicted, it would not go against the ban on retrospective penalties, i.e. if this was to be collected back into time because of the 82 judicial cases that have been judged since January 1? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u37	A respectable president. The defendant's charges at all costs remain unfashionable. As I mentioned earlier, the law did not count until this time of year. I understand there has been no harm either for the defendant or for the state's sake. In this case the mistake was found just so that a businessman's decision to refuse the criminal charge was charged with the Ministry of Justice. In this process at the Ministry of Justice, it was discovered that this law had fallen. I understand that a businessman has been informed of this and is not likely to be affected by this mistake.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u38	Mr. President. In view of this correction, I would like to reiterate a question that I posed to the highest degree. Minister of December 16th. In fact, in the first place, I said that we had to stand in a so - called mood because of this law, i.e. Legal procedures on the National Court and courts. Setup in this judgment level has been rather fucked up in many people if not all places. At that time, I said, with President's permission: In that light, I wanted to ask if a minister would realize that there will be more temporary laws that we will have to pass through this council in order to initiate this national right. So I'm paraphrasing this question for a second, I'd like to ask the highest level. Minister if she may need more time to review the Lands Court law and to re-vise them, since we're always in some kind of trouble. I would like to ask: Do we have to stand in more trouble because of these laws? Is it a matter that the Ministry's employees carefully review the law and make sure that we are not always in this session? It's getting a little tired, the only case coming from the Minister of Justice is a legal trial for the National Court. Is there any reason to put staff at the Ministry to a thorough review of these laws and to make sure that at the council we are not in an endless session for the Minister of Justice?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u39	A respectable president. I would now like to consider that this is not some form of renovation for the Minister here. There's been a mistake here that could protect the citizens of this country. Of course, the Lawgiver is to be updated if he chooses to do so, if it is acceptable to the Law text, for the benefit of the nation. Then I'd like to reiterate that this bill does not specifically point to the National Court or Justice. It is only possible that with the dramatic changes in a number of legal columns, one set of laws fell down. There are, of course, criticisms of the way things work. First and last, of course, of course, the very nature of the council itself, which is being discussed in committees with staff and members of the council; it seems to me that all of them have strong opinions on the issues presented here and are bound to work with the existing legal columns intended to be fixed. Hence, the senators must first and last examine themselves. However, I have personally taken it up with the Ministry's staff whether it is desirable to establish some other arrangement for such extensive, legal adjustments. Of course, this will not necessarily prevent us from making a mistake like this. They happen, as in the contracting of a bills anywhere, both in councils and here at the General Assembly. In fact, I recall in this regard some well-elected senators who have been committed but have been judged incontrovertible to the Constitution. All of us are willing to improve procedures at the Ministry of Justice and undoubtedly in other parts of the Council of Justice. And I believe members of Congress should consider that, too.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u40	Mr. President. I was simply asking a minister if there was a basis for a thorough review of this legal procedure, as it turns to the land's rights in view of how far we are in conflict with it. To blame this council for this repeated fuck-up, well. I just remind you that last case came down here on December 21st, and it was done on December 27th. To expect members of this body to have limited access to staff like this in the case of an entire agency, to make sure that everyone's mistakes are handled as well as their viewpoint. I just wanted to reiterate this question: Isn't there any reason why the Ministry is going through the legal process as if it's turning towards the Land Court, so we don't have to go through a mess like this again?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u41	A respectable president. I make a fact that there is no particular bill here for the National Court. In case of a moment. A senator is referring to a law on courts, and I have declared that there certainly are aspects of that law to be considered, such as any other law at any given time, so that it is reasonable to update according to new circumstances in society or human opinions or established government at any given time. This legal legislation, such as other legislation under the Ministry of Justice, is for repeated reviews. There is nothing that requires special consideration for legislation in excess of other legislation, particularly in terms of possible legal errors. Mistakes arise regarding these laws as well as those of others, and this will only be handled. I hope the legislatures this case quickly and safely.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u42	A respectable president. German philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche once said that life repeats itself over and over all eternity. That's an idea some people are afraid of. But Nietzsche taught us that the art is to learn to love life as it appears to a man as that eternal repetition of the same. I can think of this because we're the highest. Ministers have stood in this situation, not even twice, but six times before. I haven't been in Congress for a long time, but I've often corrected the laws of foreigners and courts. Track No. 10/2017, law No. 17/2017, No. 53/2017, 89/2017 and No. 90/2017 were submitted as primes of the highest. Minister and law No. 54/2017 was presented as a bill of the General and Education Committee to deal with mistakes that needed to be solved pretty quickly. I'm kind of going to get used to it. There is no need to blame the council specifically, nor is there any reason to blame the Ministry specifically. It is our common responsibility to establish laws that measure up to time but that do not result from rights. It's only natural for a mistake to come up, but I think it's a good idea; the five cases that the minister has set out in his eight cases as a minister, five of the eight cases that the Minister has received at the council have been adjusted. I imagine the Minister, like me, would see his political ambition in other things besides correcting errors. [[The president calls.]] So I wondered, " How can we, the council and the Ministry together, fix this? '
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u43	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for enforcing these laws I've submitted. Hv. A senator thinks they're all concerned with some kind of law correction, I'm not quite sure that it all works, but one of these initial reactions to changed circumstances. Let it be between parts. Clearly, he wants to write my place in history so that the minister here corrected the mistake of another minister, referring to the minister before me. It is now, and there doesn't have to be anything to make it sound like it's something different, that legislation is, of course, a living document. It needs to be alive, and adjustments in circumstances need to be made. Legal like, for example. The law on foreigners was an enormous task when we agreed at the council to put a whole new set of laws instead of changing existing laws. In fact, they all knew that, and in fact, they were doing so in their own time, during the last term, that they would need to be changed very soon in view of experience. How can this be dealt with for the future? I think and I've been talking about how far from here from the Council, there's far fewer legal initiatives than there's ever been in the last few years. I believe that the speed to treat things, the processing of the bills, often during the frequent pace of conniving treatment, is way too high. I think very few cases of urgency that they need this speed, and I believe that it would be good for everyone to be good at legislation, and that applies both to the production of bills in the councils and also to the members of the Parliament's prime project.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u44	A respectable president. V.E.G. One of the laws I listed that these matters were not about correction. This is true in that other factors were allowed to float along in that way. But I was reasonable when I recorded it. Track No. 53/2017 focused on the fact that the ban on the land had not been brought into operation. Track No. 10/2017 was about the fact that a committee to evaluate suitable judges had not improved to appoint the National Court. Track No. 90/2017 focused on private matters as to the establishment of the National Court. Track No. 89/2017 focused on the loss of industry visas. Track No. 17/2017 focused on the fact that there was a print error, as the minister himself said, when it came to the marriage and relations of foreigners. Track No. 54/2017, the committee itself, focused on the fact that they had forgotten to think about secondary students in high school. [[The president calls.]] It was all correction. Because the Minister says there's often too much urgency here, I'd like to remind you of the personal protection laws. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson mentioned earlier, that is an enormous number of antiquated legislation. [[The president calls.]] Do we want to stand here after a year with five adjustments in that law?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u45	A respectable president. I'm not in any position to answer for the work that was done on all the legal columns at that point. A senator named here, i.e. the laws these bills were seeking back in their time. I didn't come to them in any way. It was long before my time as Minister. Some of these things are unfair to mention as some sort of correction of mistakes. Since this is the case, I take an example of criminality or civility for the National Court: It was considered to be both private and criminal matters to be taken to the land's rights. The decision was made in consultation with the Supreme Court and other parties, that only the criminal case was transferred to the National Court, i.e. to bring an unscrupulous criminal case to the land rather than to the end of private affairs. It is only a procedure that was perfectly normal for men to wait to decide and see how they would develop right down to the end dates. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator and I can agree that there is a need for legalization and not too fast on that subject. [[The president calls.]] I think that's what men want to do for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u46	A respectable president. As it may be clear, not much material to say on this subject is more about why we are discussing it. Like what? paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson was reviewing them as a certain theme, a habit, which is very bad. We need to figure out how to fix it. First, I'm going to take care of a few things, in view of the highest discussions. Minister of Justice. It's like the highest. The minister of justice is then trained to leave him responsible for the council, all right. Then I'd like to mention that for years there's been an ongoing complaint about the lack of time and facilities at the General Assembly. This suggests that governments that have formed a greater part of the Generals and as a result were in a position to change them for the better, have primarily been appointed to the highest rank. Minister of Justice. Let's leave it between parts. Minister of Justice noted earlier that the council sometimes approves laws that conflict with constitution. It happens, of course it does. A fine solution to that can be found in the bill of the Council of Control - I use every opportunity to mention it - but it's a phenomenon called law. I'm the highest. One day, a minister of justice will study that solution and share his opinion of it with us. Back to this case. To me, it doesn't matter what the mistake is. It doesn't matter to me whether it's the General's fault, right now. Minister of Justice or former Justice Minister or whatever. All I'm interested in is how we solve this and try to prevent it from happening over and over; that we are not taking advantage of clumsy fixes because time was not enough, clearly, and equipment and conditions could not be prevented. In view of this, I'm particularly worried - as I mentioned earlier about the President's conference board, but I'd like to mention again - the Council of the European Union, which is en route. It is called GDPR, or General Data Development. This is, of course, an extensive update to Europe's personal protection legislation - Iceland is a participants in this, this is a Regulation - and, in my opinion, for the better. It is time for us to take Persian protection seriously enough for companies and organizations to wonder if they are equipped to meet the requirements set out in this Regulation. I'm thinking that if companies and organizations weren't worried about it, I probably don't think the Regulation is going far enough. We've broken Perone's protection and privacy for so long and so much that the only thing that could possibly fix it must cause anxiety here and there. It is important that the implementation of national legislation succeeds and that society institutions are equipped to respond to it. The need for legislation to be clear. It is important that mistakes are not made, whether here at the Council, at the Ministry of Justice, or at Peritoneal Protection, or anywhere. There's a side to it. What matters is that we have plenty of time to win things. This bill was to appear in January, according to the Government Constitution, but is not yet mentioned, as it is now February 20th. That's about it. two months on April 27th. Then we're faced with this problem if it's not yet agreed then - I don't have much faith in the fact that we won't have to accept the bill yet, but if we do, there would be a discrepancy between the law here and Europe that could be very uncomfortable for us on the basis of the situation. I'm more concerned that this will be done at such a pace and such an overforcing here that we make a mistake, that's a concern. That's why I'm calling for this bill to be finished. I also understand the irony involved in the request, for people in other institutions are also in a hurry, perhaps not having the time needed. This appears to be a growing problem in many European institutions. I have a lot of respect for it, it just doesn't ease the problem. I'd also like to call attention to two issues that Pirantar presented at its time. In fact, another was adopted at the 145th Parliament, which was a political arrangement entitled Computerized for Congress. This conclusion was given - now I hope that I won't be too technical for listeners - that Congress documents were published in a computerized format that would allow the content of a Senate document to be used in custom programs. Then I'm not necessarily talking about a giant software project. I'm even talking about simple shell - writing, so - called - 100, 200, 300, 5,000 lines of shell music, depending on what is pleasing - to cover laws and analyze things. If that were the arrangement, I'd say the mistakes we're talking about here wouldn't have been. There are already some good data, called side data, in English megamedia, on the evidence of the Allegorium; on items such as carriers, Ministers, Parliamentaries, reviews, timings, votes, numbers of speakers, length of speech, and the like. Already, though, there is a fairly large community group, although not necessarily connected to one another, who is studying the data, playing with them, and finding out what you can do to make fun of them. Sometimes something very interesting comes up, such as. The fine analysis that we're looking at. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson mentioned earlier. Various diagnostics can be made. They are useful for the discussion. They are useful for the treatment, even if each person does not necessarily know how well on computers. That's not the main thing. The key point is that the data are presented in ways that a computer can be used to solve problems; e.g. that people may not notice things or be unable to think that the context of things becomes clear, or whatever a person is considering at one time. As I say, this resolution was agreed, and there's still a working group working to figure out how to get it all together. It's more complicated than you think at first. The bills are all over the place, not just here at the Council, and not just in the council. The way they are won varies. They're also processed by traders in town. Piranus have already laid out two prime products that we call Bergethor the prime products because they're made of wind. Members of Pirata. He wrote them, and we made them available after he gave them to us and we have considered them; of course, they are wonderful, as you can expect. That means that anyone who writes Congress files is not about to use a custom state software to do that. People only use Microsoft Word or whatever else they can think of, or Libreoffice, good listeners; people use whatever they want. It's for us to accept it in a way that works out. This is not necessarily part of this, but it is an important and useful project that I hope will be done soon. We'll see what time it is. Another matter was proposed by the Pirates of his day, which was a proposal for interpretation of the definition of change. I'm going to read the whole motion material. I remind you this proposal wasn't approved, unfortunately. It's about a lot of the other's bodies and was pointed out by sources. It says, with permission from the President: ▪ The General concluded to hide the President of the Generals in order to set the rules and primes for changing the existing law, however, should follow electronic documents that show the laws or documents to be changed in final form to identify the changes planned. The conclusion is not so complicated, and the report is not much longer. Yes, she may be twice, three times longer, but at least it's not very long. If the work described here was to be done, I'd say, based on reading the report of the bill we're discussing here, this mistake hadn't taken place. The mistakes taken, according to the report of the bill we address here, were discovered when the complete document was published on the Generals' website. The bill that was submitted at the time that became the law and contained the error was a list of changes, a little difficult to dig through even for a senator, certainly in a short time. It'll be rather confusing if there's large and complex layers of law and if there's references here and there, it can get complicated and take time and make mistakes like this. We are only human, and even if we are very clever in our business, we can still make mistakes. There's no other way to expect, and there's never another way to expect it, I think. If the document had already existed, if the bill had been released and at the same time was a document that would have shown the changes to the existing law, I think we would have taken this point right away. In fact, I think the Ministry itself would have taken it right away. I don't think this would've happened. I also think that for those who work with or have interests that involve certain legal classes - let's say songs about foreigners or these courts, laws about all the main rights of the people in the community - there would be a better way to identify something that especially concerns them. However, when the group of work I mentioned above gives up their proposals, it will take some time to introduce them because it is a technically complex solution. I'm beginning to wonder, especially in the light of this bill, whether or not I should submit this synonym to the authentication process, back in spite of the task force. He'll take some time to give up, I suppose, and the induction will certainly take even more time, especially if there's no money. While I'm on a government stand, I don't expect to be funded for this important project, although I've actually learned it in this council that you don't pretend to predict the future too much. The most incredible things happen. When we talk about it here at the General Assembly, we're quick to blame someone or get defensive. If we do too much, in either direction, we may lose sight of solutions or may be available. Here's two. One of them is on his way, taking some years. One is rather simple. I'm hoping that there's nothing for the General to conclude about this. Rather, it's a procedure that documents would always include the proposed changes. If we look at this objectively and acknowledge the problem - the problem was very obvious in the first place. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson went over him here - we can totally solve this with an open mind, with respect for the problem, and by not being too defensive. Finally, I'd like to say that I generally don't listen enough to senators' complaints about how some things work here. I feel that the solutions offered in return are not usually sufficient or that go far enough. I tend to belittle those problems. I'll give you an example of timeless complaints. It's being minimized and said: You could have read it there. Or: It all lies somewhere on some web, something like this. But this is a ongoing problem. Senators aren't just complaining about this. They're showing off at work. This is evident in the fact that we are discussing this matter right now. If it were just this one thing, okay, then this mistake would be something we wouldn't necessarily have to control. But this is a ongoing problem. This happens over and over in huge law columns that affect some of the most important rights people have. For example, I mention laws about foreigners. Now I try to say this without defending a respectable president or management officer. But we have to take this seriously. We must listen to complaints in these areas and especially when faced with solutions that can help solve the problem. This does not necessarily have to be a problem subject. We just need to do this and put a couple of bucks on those jobs to finish them. Then we can fully improve our work without having to blame anyone or read the rest of the fistula for how to behave differently.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u47	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson took care of the situation. Perhaps the most important thing in the context of the fact that errors have evidently developed for error, making mistakes. True, it is human and good for us to try to deal with human neglect by setting up better procedures and accepting suggestions that come from people who have insight into things and how they can do better. I'm not going to trace it any further. But in my verbal exchange with the highest. Prior to that, a minister of justice took care of certain presumptuousnesss from the highest degree. A minister of justice that I didn't think was a reason for, especially in the light of the circumstances. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson was here referring to a number of adjustments that have had to be made. And in view of that, there may be reasons to act arrogantly and to give a positive and upbuilding view of this matter and some suggestions to resolve. But since I'm the highest. The minister of justice is wandering in error, and I would like to understand just how this matter all looks. And maybe it will be corrected. Now it's time to state that even if I'm wandering in error and smooching, I'm not even a lawyer. But at least I'm reading, Mr. President. I have read articles 240 and 241 under current criminal treatment laws. Yes, it's right next to the highest. The judicial minister that there is a legal warrant for the application of fines. All right. But the problem that has been discovered, which is why this bill has to pass, is that there is a lack of a way to collect in these cases where certain items happen. I'm reading from 2. The bill, by permission of the President: The cost of a government fund should be checked out. The cost of paying on the judgment, decision, or decision to be paid by a convicted person should be collected from him, depending on the financial situation and the forced sale. He must carry the cost of such measures, as well as the actions for the full punishment and other treatments against him, in addition to the cost of criminal justice. And this is just the second paragraph of this article. I think this would be a rather important article. Without it, there is no authority to take money or to sell illegally except on the basis of some other law that I do not know. But if there is such a law, why are we doing this? It is clear that there are cases, perhaps one of the 82 cases that have been judged since January 1, where someone does not pay guilt or fines and then lets go. Without this authority, it's just not possible. Then comes the question I asked earlier: Since it is in the bill's report that the bill has no expense for a government fund, there is only two questions: either the members that have been convicted since January 1 of this 82 cases pay their bills without a problem, or that case will arise where this law, which is expected to pass through the council, will be repeated in that matter. Then, in fact, we're using retrospective penalties, i.e. To make a mission to the human rights of the condemned by creating a penal force back in time, i.e. to force them to take over the money and forced sales back in time because of a law that was not at the time of the conviction. It's rather serious. It's quite possible that this is a misunderstanding on my part. I'm not a lawyer. However, it can be read from both the bill's report and the song text itself, a branch of the bill itself, that there is an essential tool in the law for making these laws possible. If there is not, these laws cannot be made. If these legal provisions could be made, this correction would be unnecessary. If I'm wrong with the reasoning on this matter, I hope that it will be corrected. But this is the case today at least. Because of the lack of this law, 221. The gr., that fell down, that's hazy. And even in some cases it is impossible to enforce it. It's a problem. A problem that was discovered already in the fall. However, as we have seen, since June 7, 2016, the law has been available on the Generals web for a year and a half. It is very difficult to understand why it took so long to realize this mistake. You would have thought that someone, even the defender of those people involved in these crimes, might have felt that they needed one basic point where they could be collected for a charge. But all right, that didn't come out until now. But the mess is there, and I don't think it's crazy to call it a mess. This is it. It's an entire set of laws that just disappears by hand. We'll fix it. All right. Everything's gonna be great. In the meantime, however, the only question of human rights that matters is that we are answered here: Is this the cost of a trust fund? Is the charge just the problems of state funds? Will that be part of a reserve or something? Or is this a time to break people's human rights? I don't know how to answer that question, but I'm not a lawyer. I hope someone can explain this to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u48	V.E.G. President. I'm gonna watch out for not being very arrogant this time. But I wondered, " What are my thoughts? ' Senator on recovery. Of course, there is now a general law on making up the full amount of fees. Nothing has changed and always is. It seems to me that this bill is merely a license to exasperate the cost and to eliminate it. Although this law dealt with the ability to collect expenses, I would not have been concerned about my recovery. If the requirement is judged, the state's budget is for the conviction of the demands he has made and the defendant is condemned for the sake of the charges, even though it is not authorized to collect such cases at the time of judgment, then it has nothing to do again even if such a warrant is later made. It's always not too soon, I'd say. Then the law says: Now you can collect it by law. I wouldn't worry about feedback in that case. But it seems to me that what it is. A senator is talking about a license to cover the expenses of a government fund that has been lost and, on the other hand, can be dropped. So I have to admit that I didn't understand one word of speech. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u49	Mr. President. Yeah, it's an interesting kind of friendship as a boy. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son is coming in here. Now I'm looking at chapter X of the law on the ultimate punishment. It discusses full - scale fines, collects expenses, and conducts recordings. Granted, there are some fine articles here that I am not entirely familiar - I thank you for that tip - but it seems odd to me that twice in the first part of the first paragraph of Article 2 of the paragraph. the bill, i.e. it is ignored, where it says: "Invented experiences and forced sales. " Now I don't know if I may have spoken in a vague way, but I think this was the core of the matter; that there was a particular authority to collect the expenses of abduction and forced sale, as the bill says. If the person was convicted, he will be carrying the cost of that action, to which I would also have thought that it was rather important -- then and the action for the full punishment and other treatments for him, in addition to the cost of being charged. I understand that there's some interaction between different laws. A legal degree may be needed to have a good sense of how it works. But I can't see at the moment whether it would be enough just to have the authority to cover the cost and even skip the rest in the light of this section of X on the ultimate penalty. [[The president calls.]] Or what? I hope this is where I'm going to be school.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u50	V.E.G. President. Just having the first sentence, it might work out at the expense of... - -- -- --How much more, because of the general authority. Of course, even more is being said here. This is where they say he collects. It's not in the entire law, if I remember correctly. I guess that's just allowed. But maybe that's the natural context because it put it that way in there. As I said before, I'm not worried about this. I think it's quite normal that this kind of law is exactly the same as in the criminal law, although the great general authority is in the law on the full. I feel that there is a very normal law to discuss, so there is no question about what should be done under certain circumstances. That's just the best part. Like everything else she has done, the minister is to be commended for this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u51	Mr. President. I appreciate those tips. It's clear that not everyone here at the council is legalized. Fortunately, I still say. There are certain bad habits that come into existence by law, such as. what is a capital sin among us programmers, to repeat itself, in this case in the legislation and to have the same things in different places. But okay. I understand it a little better now, though. I even agree that while I don't know the details of the argument, I may not be able to recover and hope that this will be one of the points that will be considered in the treatment of the committee and thereafter. There is very little more to say about this. Apparently, it's not as bad as I thought at first. All right. But maybe I should use this opportunity to point out all the respectable lawyers on the DRY shame chain, which means, by permission of presidents: 'Don't Repaphat Yourself, for developers. It is very nice to keep that in mind, and to make it a success to reduce the likelihood that members of the council and even those in the community do not understand the law or find it hard to understand how it works. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u52	The President wants to court members that the matter is Icelandic, which means that if a senator moves something into another language, he shall translate it. This is an appeal, so it's clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u53	A respectable president. I thank you for the fine discussion that has been made on this subject and in part on several other issues that will be discussed at the General Assembly or will be as soon as possible. I've had a bad time. Congress officials rush into this debate field with a sense of urgency, but sometimes with less prowess. I'd like a trial for a word or two. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn's Gunnarsson, for he agreed that it was not right to prosecute men here or to point to someone when a mistake arises because I had now mentioned in my speech that there were more than a minister who came to legalization, that it is, yes, the Lawgiver himself, and the senator himself, who have the closing words of the law. On the other hand, I thought his Pirata party members had the sole objective here to teach the Minister here all this disaster at the council, i.e. the error of the fixation procedure. Here they listed some of the so - called mistakes, none of which were made during my minister's reign, but on the contrary, some of them were made in some terms before being appointed as ministers. All I wanted to do was make it right and repeat it. Then I'd also like to mention here, although it's not relevant, because this is called a personal protection directive that I'm following in preparation and have proposed that the bill be very interested in it, and a great concern that there is no time to take care of that bill. It's gonna be really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, This legislation has not been introduced into the EEA Court and is not an option to accept the bill I have prepared before it can be done. I believe there is a great deal of work to be done on that bill. It is typical of a very big matter that matters when it comes to peace and much overcrowding and well - arranged therapy. I've also got to mention this bill specifically, that's what she said. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy, that only the State's obligation is to excommunicate charges. It has nothing to do with the collection process as such, but it is in favor of the defendants, i.e. For many decades, the State has paid a high price. There is also a warrant for the loss of charge. Still, there is a law on the treatment of criminal charges on the charge of the criminal charge of i.e. There are provisions that have not fallen at any point, that the defendant may flow a stream of charges. And the law on full punishment is also a law that pays fees. I felt that it was coming back to me when I heard it. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy. I'd like to end up with one thing about working on the bills and the bills. I agree with the views that go by. Parliaments that all of them are made as simple as possible, whether they are lawyers or not. I realize that bill like this can be added to, even to the law. Of course, there is no reason to have data made in a way that all are simplified that work and that there are not double - done for a senator, that he does not have to put together many documents if you can do so in the past. When I was sitting down. For a period of time, a financial and business committee asked us to request legal bills from councilors, at least for long periods of complex law columns, in what is known as the 'Trakchanges', or in a writing editor, a writing editor, I don't know the Icelandic term. It shows changes in document, i.e. Councilmen receive laws that should be changed by means of indent adjustments so that they will be more aware of them. As far as I'm concerned, that kind of procedure on the legislatures is definitely an improvement for the bill heads. At any rate, I have the same level when I have written bills to do things that way. Senators have every option to request a presentation in this way, if that's what they choose. There was never a problem. A financial and business committee in its own time to arrange for members of the Parliament to submit the documents in this way. It is not to the members of the council to blame for this, all of whom are willing to be prepared to make it easier for members of the council to work. Of course, members of the Parliament may have different ways of working, and one thing is convenient for one person and another. But at least I have asked my Ministry to try to find a way, if it's the wish of the senators, to get the bills in a way that makes it easier to understand the changes involved. Within the council, highly so - called comparator documents, which are in my opinion, are not transparent enough to speed up the work and the reading of a law source. It may be that each senator would like to have his own way, but it would probably be that way in the plot - now I speak only to my Ministry, the Ministry of Justice - that prime suspects appear in that form, at least as documents, so that it would be easier for members of the council to recognize the changes they will make. I've already requested in the Ministry that it be that way. Thank you again for a great discussion. Although not much of the bill was discussed as such, I think the discussion was useful, it is clear that a work plan will be handled by law-employing operators and work here at the council. I wish once again for good cooperation with the council and assume that it will be this bill's payment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u54	A respectable president. I hope all I have to do is come up here once to ask the highest. Minister of Justice. I thought she was talking about the protection laws, or something that was in harmony with what I heard from someone else. A senator before, would not be inside European legislation. Somehow it was spoken, so I worry that that date, April 27, is in some way blurred. Just to say as it is: According to everything I've seen, everywhere I've discussed this matter or heard about it, whether I've read about it on the Internet or here, it's been before that April 27 is the date this will take. If there's some misunderstanding on my part, I'd like to know about it. If it's in any way unclear that it's going to be all in force on April 27, I think it's important that it come to me because I'm afraid we're going to work too fast. I'm particularly afraid that if there's some misunderstanding in the system that's not lying on this, then we're encouraged to rush it too fast. I feel like I'm in a lot of trouble here. My understanding is that there will be no doubt that this will take effect on April 27th. Is that a misunderstanding?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u55	A respectable president. This subject, for example, hears nothing under the bill mentioned in this issue and would have been suggested in an unsubstantiated inquiry or in a special discussion. But I am kindly and obliged to discuss the personal protection principle that will take effect in the European Union on May 25. Not April, but May. I believe the personal protection principle is a very important matter, in terms of the great rights of the citizens. The city's rights are being greatly increased in the digital world in which we live and move. It is, as one would say in short, very good case. It's time for the induction process. The European Union's national protection protocols are taking effect in the European Union on May 25, but the EEA needs to implement this Regulation in the EEA. This is how it is laid down, and the decision is made in what way it will be done. They have more than one year of discussions to consider the possibilities of this subject. The protocol will be introduced here with a somewhat unorthodox structure, and this may be what has taken hold of the matter. The European Commission is now asked to decide whether the Regulation shall be introduced into the EEA in the way the EEA has proposed. I'm expecting the Commission to agree, but there's still a need to wait for a formal release from the European Union to do so. This will be followed by the joint EEA committee and, thereby, will be introduced into the EEA right, with the exception of the evaluation. A Foreign Affairs Committee here at the General Assembly and so forth. It will only be after this process as the bill I have built will be submitted to the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u56	A respectable president. I don't know where I got my date on April 27, but I am relieved that it was May 25, not April 27, since I was rather impressed. However, it is my understanding of a presentation I had at Peritoneal Protection that if this did not go into effect here at the specified time, there would be a legal error between the EEA and the EU that would translate into the duties of European enterprises to the protection of the individualities and the responsibilities here to be different. This would likely have an effect on people abroad or on companies who were going to house data here or something like it, doing some information work that, of course, needs to be in harmony with personal protection laws, would be reluctant to do so. It is a threat not to do this at the appointed time. And saying, as I mentioned in my speech, in itself, I have no concern that this will not happen at the scheduled time, I'm just worried that it will not work well enough, that the work here will be done in too fast, etc., as we went over time, and I'm not going to repeat it. I repeat, the bill was to appear in the Government Constitution in January, but let's put it in between sections, we've discussed it. Is there anything else going on? That's what makes it great. The Minister expects the bill to wait in some way, or do the highest. A minister assumes that there is plenty of time to handle this matter as well as we are expected to do in general?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u57	A respectable president. A bill to a new protection law is as good as ready. I have stressed that broad consultations are being made with the economy, with the technology world if I can put it that way, in a broad way and at earlier levels, not just this traditional agreement that we at the Management Board have when the bill is in place, and then, of course, an even greater consultation is made on the part of the council with a non-continent party. So the bill has been in this consultation process and is as good as ready. It will not be submitted until the bill has been introduced into the EEA Court. Of course, this could happen over the next few weeks, but it could also be delayed. The ball is for the European Commission. Of course, this too may delay until summer. We're totally aware of that. Then I will note that it informs me of the protection of character in the European Union and of the Regulation, which takes place on May 25, that all countries of the European Union are ready and in fact as ready as Icelandic companies and Icelandic institutions are for the introduction of this personal protection principle. Then there is this traditional question or speculation about the induction process in Iceland. What matters in this relationship is that Iceland is about to introduce this personal protection principle. The bill is ready and the process will be accelerated by the joint EEA committee. I'm not so worried about it, even though it would delay that the Council agreed to a new personal protection law.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u58	Mr. President. I come mainly to try to make certain misunderstandings. It looks like the highest. Minister of Justice thinks that it is some goal of Pirata to try to get the minister in trouble. I think that's a lot of sensitivity, especially since it was a whale. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson, but not any of the senators of Pirata who read a list of mistakes earlier. So I want it to be perfectly clear. We are not in any special way trying to get a minister in trouble, for it has been easy for a minister to get himself in trouble on occasion. Of course, only a few of these primary sites were submitted with defects from the present level. Certainly, a minister of justice is good to see her efforts to correct them. However, it is important to mention that it is the responsibility of a minister to offer a number of prime products. I think I know that the highest. Minister of Justice knows that. It is not always possible to bring it to the council that it is the responsibility of the Parliament to take any mistake that may take place, especially when what does not follow has been concluded by the Council itself, that the bills should be made in a particular form, including those of the Council. with controlled documents, that it is not an isolated case, but that it is a general rule, according to the council's conclusion. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson spoke here on a considerable scale. So I take it together, we're not trying to harm anyone, but we need to understand that there's a lot of responsibility for these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u59	A respectable president. Following the discussion of mistakes or not mistakes, I contend that there are no bills on my part that have been corrected at this council or at the last, but they have been discussing the prime signals I've been discussing as to the correcting of the bills that other Ministers have proposed. But I think we're gonna do what. A senator would agree that the work of all involved in the legal process needs to be paid for, in particular, by the court. Congress officials, although fully equipped to request cooperation or a review of the initials that will arrive at the council. I've seen a lot of people take advantage of that. I didn't realize it when it happened. A senator pointed to the General's conclusion on the format of documents made available to the council. I don't know it, but the council can, of course, make rules about what kind of legal products come from the problems of the council. I don't know better than that all the Ministry is silent to the council wishes, whether the material is in the form of any rules or assumptions, I don't know if there's any rules about it. Of course, there has been a custom for the production of a law source. Of course, it is of great importance that there is a formality in the implementation of law-employers from one time to the next, although such legislation may very often include documents that explain work papers to help members of the body work. If that's what it's like. A senator is mean, I believe that this is a success for the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u60	Mr. President. It is about computer documents and has, among other things, been the result of the Synod resolution. If the job was correct, the documents can be returned, including some documents. in this comparison with no additional actions, that it's just a self-centered part of everything. Then there is another council interpretation proposal for the authentication of changes, which, of course, has not been approved to me, but it might be a good idea to be accepted in order to make such a success. I'm very kind and obliged to send the highest. The Minister of Justice copies of the state of Congress so that it can be assured that everything in the Ministry of Justice is in harmony with it, as it would be an improvement, I think. There is a need for good cooperation between the council and recruitment, and it has been full of willingness to avoid misunderstandings and mistakes. It is only best that we try to reach that goal.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u61	A respectable president. Hv. A senator was clearer in his later answer, and it showed that he was referring to a synonym... [[Up front.]] Which states that there is a suggestion before the council, not the rules of the Council itself. I've made my point in speaking, of course, that the council is self-employed to set up a set of work papers and, in other ways, the rules of working here. But I've decided that if I've had any special request from the council for the release of documents, if it doesn't require an enormous amount of work in the Ministry or expertise that the Ministry can't be expected to have the Ministry, it's possible that technical computer outputs are not available. But as far as I know, electronic documents come along the streets, so it should be easy for all members of the Parliament to work with the documents from the problems. As I have mentioned and made a decision here, the members of the Parliament have been extremely helpful in assisting members of the council. As far as I know, the government was concerned with further support for the council and an increasing number of employees. Groups have received additional assistance during this term, they have been authorized for increasing workers, so this is all for the better part of the council. But above all, I think all members of Congress should keep in mind that the amount is not good when it comes to matters of Congress. Then I'll refer both to the CREEP and to a Senate prime project.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u62	A respectable president. I recommend here a bill for a change in alcohol law. This bill discusses the ban on homemaking for personal consumption. Transporters, along with the people here, are a reason. paritaprevir Olga Margrét Cilia, Halldorra Mogensen, Smári Mccarthy, Jón Þór Ólafsson, Bjöl Leví Gunnarsson, Þorgerður K. Gunnarsdóttir, Vilhjálmur Árnason, Helga Helgadóttir Helgafótir, and Logi Einarsson. The bill itself is, in fact, very simple. It is suggested that two words be removed from 2nd team. Section 4. passed on alcohol. It has become a monotonous intake of some form of alcohol. In the past, the bill has been submitted, at Council 145, but it was not granted them, and it is again submitted in a material way. This bill suggests that the use of alcohol for personal consumption is prohibited. Alcohol consumption is an important part of Icelandic culture. Its production, sale, and consumption have long been dependent on great restrictions because of the harmful effects of alcohol drinking, both consumers and the community as a whole. The major controversies of the past few years have been involved in the sale process, i.e. whether alcohol should be sold in until state-made shops, private stores, or both. This bill does not contribute to the evacuation of literature for distribution or to the change of sales arrangements. The production of alcohol is currently a job permit by permission published by the State Marshal in accordance with Regulation No. 845/2007. However, regardless of the nature or nature of the production, the production of alcohol for personal consumption is prohibited. In spite of this, the production of alcohol for personal consumption has been very widely and very long in the community, although there has been no notable interest among the common people in dealing with violations. On the contrary, in recent years there has been no attempt to hide a wealthy culture of homemaking. Advertising, the amateur community of fermentation, operates openly, has held advertised events received a press conference, sent a review to the Council for a bill on the change in alcohol trade, as well as a meeting of the General Education and Education Committee to discuss it. It is safe to say, then, that in private consumption, a number of people do use alcohol for their own consumption without worrying about the conduct of the law. In fact, in view of a high line, it seems to be a lack of awareness that conduct is above one's head ban. It would seem that such an attitude would be reflected in a general discussion of alcohol abuse, but it is not. Since alcohol abuse is rightly very controversial, the fact that neither government nor public interest in enforcing the ban as an indication that the unprovable prohibition on the production of alcohol for personal consumption is no longer relevant in Icelandic society. Over the past few years, there have been over a number of new kinds of Icelandic beer. In addition to this development, the curiosity of tourists and their interest in Icelandic beer has increased. Undeniably, among those who know that homemaking is a major factor in the fact that so many new types of beer appeared in recent years and became popular. It is a blow to the fact that the growth point of Icelandic beer culture and the positive image that has been used to obtain beer in quality, based, in effect, on crime that is severely punishable. People have an uncircumcised right to study the laws that they are expected to follow, such as the 27th chapter. The constitution required for the publication of the law. The goal of this article is that individuals have realistic opportunities to act in harmony with society's expectations and in accordance with law. The laws discussed here are very clear themselves, but the expectations of the Lawgiver and the community are much inconsistencies with the letter of law or at least inexplicable. Though the law does not exactly conflict with 27. However, this certainly conflicts with the objective of the article, since the city is aware of what behavior is acceptable in the opinion of lawmakers and society. While it may be reasoned that the part of the law against the production of alcohol for personal consumption is, in effect, a dead letter remains in law and is still in good health. Little public consciousness about the ban, along with the fact that conduct is both socially accepted and further subjected to unfashion, weakens the citizen's position in the decision of the government. It is difficult to predict in advance what the consequences would be for those who produce alcohol for personal consumption if the authorities suddenly took up the action of enforcing the ban. For the above reasons, transporters suggest that the production of alcohol for personal consumption is permitted by removing the portion of the law in terms of private consumption. A respectable president. I've studied the bill's report, but I'd like to say two more things. As it happens in general, when we talk about drugs and alcohol, drugs, alcohol is not in any way less of a drug, drugs less than drugs, anything less than drugs, not in any way, except that alcohol is social and legally acceptable to drugs - people may belittle the importance of the discussion. Every time the so-called bus-in-house business comes up here on the subject, which is about allowing alcohol to be sold in stores, public shops that are not run by the state, people will ask: Is this now the most important thing? Is this really what we want to be wasting our time on? And yes, sometimes the answer can be quite no. But I just want to think that knowing that no senator has ever put that matter in particular. It's just been submitted. It seems that there's enough here to fry up. This case is important. Not because it's about alcohol, but because it's about six years of imprisonment involved in behavior that is officially recognized. That'll break the burger's rights. That's what this is all about. Another way would be to enforce this ban and thus wipe out the trend in Iceland's beer culture with the related costs for the industry that now thrives in Iceland because tourists find interesting and fun to try Icelandic beer. It would wipe it out at first. And there's just no call for it. There's no one I know who calls for this ban to be carried out. It is not enough for this to be banned, but it is a very tall six - year prison term for this offense. Although alcohol is not sold to anyone, delivered to anyone, or done anything. Just making a living at home for a private drink is a prison for up to six years. Six years in prison is a dangerous time, not just because of the length of the prison that would theoretically be judged by men, but because of the fact that the penalty frames was activated by various police sources. The police are about to be able to do things and request sources that she could not otherwise have or would at least have a serious problem with. There are things like wire wires and the like. Once again: I don't know that the police are using them, normal and fortunately. But when we have some kind of conduct that goes wrong in the community, and no one seems to have anything particularly important to consider, it's dangerous to have such legal and criminal rights. It is only once that some insane police officer in some part of the world is taking up the task of completing the ban with great weight, and then people's rights are in grave danger. I'd like to reiterate that this prohibition is by no means a violation of Article 27. The constitution about the publication of the law. But that article has a purpose. It means that we should be able to live our lives and act as we do without having some absolute moral sense like everyone else in our society. That's why we have laws. This is because we do not have this common understanding of what is acceptable and what is not. That is why we need to discuss it, put it in law and order, and call it social norm, social customs, and expectations. In this case, society's expectations and habits are completely confused with laws that are clear and with a high line of penalty and provide much research. That's serious. That's a problem. So, yes, to me, this is a priority for that reason. Not because it's alcohol. There's a side to the behavior. If there were any other behavior, which would be totally adopted, and enjoyed the position of this particular law, which would have this high line of penalty, I would present it as a case, and I would say it was important for the same reason. It's not about alcohol. It's about the rights of the citizens and that they have a good right not to become overworked by the authorities because of some intentional decision. That's what it's all about. There's not much more to say about this, but there's one thing I'd like to learn about. It is that while this bill is released from prison punishment, some people's interpretations still need permission that may be extremely expensive and difficult to get to do this. I'd like to refer it to what. Named, whoever it must take special note of it. [[Up front.]] The main thing here is to remove this punishment. Of course, the situation in society - whether people like it or not - has made it easy to make a living at home. It is very extensive knowledge of this and is easy to draw close to. There is no real possibility of investigating and punishing these matters without walking a bit mad in search of houses and wires, so, of course, we must want to authorize home brewing, for personal consumption, I underscore it. This bill is about private consumption only. I'd like to call 1st. Section 4. The law says, by permission of the President: The law of this law has to do with the production of alcohol, as well as the production of alcohol, which is strictly unauthorized. 27°g in the United States alone, where there is no room for love in the Christian congregation, there is no need for such a person to be a part of the congregation. That refers to 27. The law, not the constitution, I'm sure it's obvious. I'm referring the case to a committee I assume is why. The General and Education Committee, where she handled the drinking business in the last place, which is about law enforcement and so on.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u63	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson for his history. I'd like to start by saying that I'm relatively positive about this bill, but I'd like to have a chance to ask why. A senator on at least one point, if not more. Not that I have preconceived opinions about it, but I just want to have a few words at ease. A senator. The bill says here, if I understand correctly, would equal any kind of alcohol production. I'd like to ask you what. A senator sees whether he or she has any concerns about it or believes that even fermentation should be separated from nebulisation. What humans are worried about is a phenomenon that most of us in this room will most of us know from childhood, which are so - called land halls. There's not much room for people to sell their home-blowed snorkel wine or their IPA beer. But I just wanted to talk to you about it. A senator, not because I have someone's preconceived opinion, but because I want to ask myself, " Is it true that there are not exactly the same rules of fermentation and exhalation, or is this just about a person's freedom to produce this anyway? ' I'll have it done for now, and then I'll get into other cases in a second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u64	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's question. In fact, I can say that the first time I started to write this bill at the time, it was all about allowing light wine to be homemade. [[Up front.]] Gerion, I guess. I have to admit, I've never fabricated alcohol, and I'm not so interested in it. I don't know too much about the technology behind this. But then I began to introduce it to other members of the council and to people who know, e.g. members of the people's population are being drawn up. All the answers were the same as the question always asked: Why are you making this distinction? I said, don't you want to do that? But then I was told, and again, I don't know the technology behind this myself, that it was really meaningless. IPA or something like that, the difference between this in the law isn't something that's protecting anybody or that's important. I just took it. I myself believe that law should be simple. We should not ban things unless we have a clear reason for doing so. When asked why would you forbid people to make anything other than IPA and red wine in their home? I couldn't answer. So I thought, "Okay, I guess I don't think we should ban it. But that's the right thing to do. A senator is certainly a matter of individual freedom. However, I would like to insist that most of my work is to stop some barbarism from suddenly starting with the government to enforce the ban. In itself, I do not personally feel strongly about whether this should be permitted or not out of a personal view of freedom. Although I was actually proselytizing it with personal freedom of choice. But I would present this bill without regard to the personal freeness of mind. I think it would even be the same word.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u65	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. Again: I have the right to follow through as that might arise. I am relatively positive about such a first episode. Actually, I don't have a physical question about this bill's exactly what it means. But in view of the urgency of our times. In the last few days, I would like to ask a student a question in a particular phrase that I would like to explain. Without going to do anything dramatic, there's an expression that made me feel a little awkward. It says here, by permission of the President: ▪ Even if the law does not conflict directly with the 27th paragraph. However, this certainly conflicts with the objective of the article, since the city is aware of what behavior is acceptable in the opinion of lawmakers and society. Hv. A senator did well in his history as to how he feels this would affect him, i.e. how he believes the Constitution plays into it. When I looked at this, I felt that men were stretching for the biggest tool in the toolbox to argue in their case. A senator did just fine. But this is so that the city is aware of what behavior is acceptable in the opinion of society. When can a citizen ever be aware of what behavior is acceptable in the opinion of society? When can it be said that something is acceptable, now or not acceptable, in the opinion of a community or not? How do we measure what a community thinks? What really is a community? I know we're in philosophical questions, but because I know why. A senator deeply believes that the law and the law are clear and simple. A senator to bring it into his head, because it's an expression that's putting me in the eye a little bit. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u66	A respectable president. I welcome whatever opportunity I get to have a philosophical discussion in the Council of II and I feel that all too little of them in general if I'm to say just the way it is. Hv. One senator asks: "How can the city be aware of what is acceptable according to local opinion? Of course, he will never be able to do so fully. But this behavior is a practice that is so widely practiced and so exorbitantly done. This club, Announced, held an open event at the Kurdraun of its time, and the reporters came and they were out with the beer showing the reporter. Then they came here at the General Assembly and spoke to the Senate committee. It's as if people weren't aware that it's against the law. In this particular case, I find it obvious that people in general are not aware of that and certainly not about the hair of the penalty. I suppose people in general don't have much to care about, but if they do, they'll think, "Well, I'm sure these laws have been canceled because everyone's doing it and nobody's complaining about it. ' Otherwise, I'd probably be complaining, or someone would come up in the Senate and talk about the need for us to deal with these laws. But it's not like that. The social messages are they of Icelandic society, obviously just don't care about this. [[Up front.]] At least to the extent of personal consumption. That's it. That's it. It's really an update of the law in line with what I like to be an obvious object of community nature. But to answer this philosophical question, we can never be completely aware of it. That's what the law is for. We have the theory to be able to read and understand the laws fully and to be absolutely sure of our rights. That's not quite the reality. But I suggest that when we see a six-year line of penalty against something that is overly common and is increasing, if something is, and no one complains, we should simply fix the law rather than try to go the other way. For the second choice is to go the other way. I don't see why, and I'm not interested in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u67	V.E.G. President. I am very pleased with a sentence in my report: ▪ Alcohol consumption is an established part of Icelandic culture. I couldn't have written a better sentence. But when you go back a little back in time, because you've been bringing bills about increased freedom of alcohol, even some men who are on this bill here have been making a very ambiguous effort to increase their freedom to alcohol. They may, in effect, be divided into four groups: those who have never eaten the product, those who do not know how to go with it, the third group are those who are helping those who do not know how to go with it, and the fourth are politicians who are in frequent foreign trips and who can buy everything on vacation. But this group is just more of a nation. That's why there's never been any freedom. I ask, because we're allowing people to build themselves, whether it's not paradoxing to be so reluctant or against greater freedom with alcohol and then allowing people to produce it at the same time. When people are allowed to produce alcohol, does anyone believe that they will just eat them? Do not others always benefit? My father promised him he'd build in the shed. My whole class in high school was in the garage. Is it not contradictory in this regard?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u68	A respectable president. In short, no. I don't see a contradiction in this. I don't remember anyone discussing the so - called drinking business, i.e. has rejected alcohol as part of Icelandic culture, whether people like it or not. Hv. A member of the council noted that there are noncombatants here, but in favor of it. The objective of this bill is to save the citizens of the country from that fair - hearted catastrophe as if it were the lawgiver to enforce these laws. When it comes to selling alcohol, it is not the primary question of the law or rights of the citizens for research and imprisonment. Rather, it is a question of whether you go to a state store or private to buy alcohol. It's a very different matter. Really, I'd love to, if we imagined that we weren't talking about alcohol on each bill separately, but about pink M&M in the second bill and in the other bill on blue M&M. The nature of the matter is not about alcohol but about socially acceptable behavior, which is banned by a high line of punishments and high research documents that are not being carried out. It's different from drinking. I could also strike back at the councilman and I'll just let myself have a bit of that. I have felt that the Independence Party often speaks very beautifully about individual freedoms, but when it comes to matters at the council, they do not go to the freedom of the individual, as this matter is about, but the freedom of business, as the commercial arrangement is about. I do not in itself criticize the fact that people are fighting for more freedom of business. That's fine. That's fine. But that is not a matter of individual freedom. It's a matter of individual freedom. Freedom in the sense of imprisonment or freedom, so freedom.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u69	V.E.G. President. Hv. I must not be misunderstood by a senator, thinking that I am opposed to this bill. [[Up front.]] I'm a special sponsor. If I recall freedom in business with alcohol, they were convinced that it would increase their consumption. There would be health issues. They must also apply if I am allowed to produce alcohol myself. It must mean an increase in alcohol availability. Therefore I say, Is this not a paradox? It must be. But as for the brewing of alcohol, I always remember an old interview I saw on TV with a Swedish police chief in small countries. It was an epidemic of brewing. The reporter says to the chief of police: "What, aren't we going to do? What can you do to stop this? The police officer had a simple answer: Of course, just lowering the price of their state. There's only one way. There's so much yoke on this fine drink because some people don't know how to plan, some people cross the line. Instead of trying to get them up and help them who are always making life more difficult for us, our society is tailoring to those who are still self - assuming. There is a permanence of thinking in Icelandic society. Some don't know what to do. I always have to be punished. But I'm a great supporter of this bill, huh? Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u70	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his support. As I say, I don't think this is going to increase the consumption. I haven't heard anyone say it's an increase in consumption. I don't see how this would increase consumption simply because there's a very different scale on these matters. No one's going to make personal consumption, and as defined, they're going to disperse it. The problem with these laws is that you can enforce government contracts at a liquor store, you can enforce the law on selling alcohol, such as selling land, just taking over the job of the police and chasing the bad guy and all that stuff. But enforcing this law involves so much intervention in people's private lives, which I reiterate no appeal, neither from the superior authorities, nor from the public, from the government, from the General, or from anyone else. That's a big difference between these two cases. To say that, if it comforts you. Senator: In terms of transporters on the bill, at least the person standing here would vote in equal favor with a bill allowing alcohol to be sold by private sources, with the premonition that it depends on how it is implemented. The output really matters. That's for sure. It really matters how things are worked out when it comes to them. But the only thing these two have in common is that the word alcohol occurs in both of them. In all other respects, they are different in nature. This isn't about selling. This isn't what a sales system is all about. It's about personal consumption while the sale system is changing according to the definition of the sale process. [[Up front.]] These matters have nothing in common but to use that word, alcohol. So I don't see exactly any contradiction in being strongly opposed to selling alcohol in private stores and being very in favor of this matter. It is a matter of freedom of the individual to the authorities. I'm glad to have as many importers as possible, wherever they come from, and especially then. þm. Brunes the Brynjar of Niel. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u71	A respectable president. I once suggested that the meetings of the World Council committees be generally open; I did so several times in a talk, but I have also proposed a bill to make that dream a reality. I'm going to start by reading the whole bill, it's not too far, so we're all on the same page with what we're talking about here. First, I want to know that the transporters of this bill are the one standing here, the Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson's son, and why. The members of Olga Margrét Cilia, Cilia Mogensen, Leví Gunnarsson, Jón Þór Ólafsson, and Smári Mccarthy, members of Pirata. The bill is as follows, with the permission of the president: 01:19. par. The law says: Committee meetings may also include members of the Committee's Committees and the visitors appointed to a meeting or agree to appear before the committee. Committee meetings should usually be held in the hearing of what a building allows and sent to the web according to the rules of the Presidency Committee. The Presidency Committee establishes rules for meetings at the time. Case one. and access to them. A committee can hold a meeting in order to gather information on a matter referred to in its own language or on a case that the committee takes up with its own initiative. The Committee may request that either the current or former minister, the heads of state's independent institutions, the presidents and government committees, State accountants, U.S. marshals, representatives of stakeholders and experts who do not operate under the control or responsibility of ministers come to the committee and give it information. In the event that at least one quarter of the members of the committee presents such a meeting, the chairman of the Committee shall seek it with reasonable advance notice to the person asked to appear before the committee for permission of the meeting. Such meetings should be held in the hearing and sent out on television and on the council web in accordance with the rules of the presiding committee. The Parliamentary Committee may decide that a meeting will be held shut up if there is evidence or information on confidentiality, if the members of the Commission appear before a panel, if a guest called wishes to follow, or if there is a case involving national security or the important interests of Iceland that has to be covered in secret. It is not permitted to refer to the committee's words or to the visitors who fall to a closed committee meeting, except by permission. Unable to communicate information at a meeting held in the hearing sound, or to refer to those who are to be secreted according to the rules of confidentiality or Enlightenment. A hearing meeting should not be held if the committee agrees to accept confidential information or data, scr. Fifty. The director of a committee may decide that a meeting should be closed so that such confidential information can be submitted. The Presidency Committee establishes further rules on the implementation of WCC committees, including about the access of the audience and the broadcast from the meetings. It's like the whole bill. Now it is not a new subject to open a meeting of the Generals. I have to say, the Council is, contrary to what many people in the community believe, rather a transparent institution. It is in itself easy to find more or less everything you may need to know about the matter of Congress and what we do here by reading the IIic website, i.e. if you have been properly trained to use that second site. Of course, the General differs from other work places, so often it makes people wonder how things are arranged and where they can be found. It in itself is a organizational problem, in itself it is not a pernicious problem, not by nature. In fact, I don't know any good solutions unless I have a good search engine, which I understand, in fact, that the entire body has. I don't need a search engine anymore, most often not, I just know where to find things, find them pretty easily, and don't get into trouble with it. Except when it comes to meeting regulars. It's the only place, the only blind spot, where I experience it over and over, that I lack information. Fortunately, there are members of Parliament who are eager to book on a fixed committee meeting, but both seem to be unappreciative and not to be done unless there is a special occasion. This means that such books are actually only in the case of a subject that tends to become controversial, extensive, or similar. Such books can make a difference. I'll give you one special, check it out. paritaprevir Jón Þór, son of Ólafsson, and then swift. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir in the so - called Land Court language. Then a book was provided that contained material that otherwise could not have been used in the discussion on that important subject. Now I don't know if that meeting would have been so open. I just don't know that. I don't know the circumstances, I don't know if they would have been, but at least it's important that what's presented in committee meetings is in some way accessible. The usual way before the council, to promote such information, is by committees and other opinions, even independent members of the council. That's quite a price. But if I had been involved in a lot of committee views, I know that there are very often, if not always, things left unsaid, except perhaps in the smallest cases where there is not much to say. In many cases a greater proportion of opinions are presented; smaller things are not in favor of the case, their argument and speculation, or their question - making information. He may not want to have the opinion of the greater part, but he does not necessarily return a minority of his own. Furthermore, smaller things are made up of several groups - some of them, you say these days - and they may agree on some basic theme, but they disagree about other things. Then they give a common committee party what they agree on. This results in the lowest common memory of the object in these terms. Aside from the fact that smaller parts do not necessarily return a committee party to begin with. It all works out, in terms of committee opinion and relations with the council, to me, fine. In general, there is no disagreement on how these meetings should work. The Trinity is basically clear. When a conflict arises, it is usually easily resolved, either by a president's decision and/or by references to rules or terms. However, it remains that the public, the media, and members of Congress who either cannot attend the meeting or are not temporarily out of access to parties. There are two kinds of concerns I've heard from members of this matter, absolutely legitimate concern, but I'm going to try to beat them here. You are concerned that opening up a meeting will make this all a play. I have to say right now, having sat on a lot of closed committee meetings and watched a few open committee meetings, I don't agree that the opening committees will turn into a play. No more plays than I see at closed committee meetings. Do they not have their brief fistulas and comments on the closed committee meetings as well? Yeah. There are guests and senators expel themselves and read them the fistula, and there's a question. That's how it is on open committees, and it's also closed. This is the way people express themselves when they have strong opinions about committee meetings. There is nothing wrong with it as long as it is in moderation. Again, my experience is that the case is closed both at committee meetings and open. Although I understand the concerns, I don't agree that this is the case. Besides, it is so with committee meetings that they are clearly defined in time. A specific period of conversation that each member of the body has to interact with a guest can be set aside. A meeting board is possible. There doesn't have to be a problem, and it hasn't been a problem to me knowing. I don't think it's something to convince people to keep committee meetings closed. Oh no, if a senator went to the committee to book opinions he wouldn't do here in a child, it's only fine, and secondly, that's not my experience. Congress officials are relatively unafraid to express their thoughts, whether on closed committees or here. But the other thing is that people have pointed to and were worried about. i.e. that if a committee meeting was always open, members of Congress will just take the conversation somewhere else. That instead of discussing semi-formed ideas or speculations, questions, or so forth, members would just let it go in this field, and that conversation would take place only in another area; not even at meetings, and not even with representatives of all classes that would be most necessary; would not be in the situation where a meeting government is present, and everyone was speaking to everyone. Therefore, I assume that open committees in general are not particularly useful when members of Congress are talking to other members of Congress, that is not the main thing. The important thing is that conversation with guests is available to all. As the bill shows, and I hope the listeners have noticed, they assume that guests can ask for the meeting to be closed and then it will be closed. In some cases, guests need to get some confidence that or they don't want to be in the limelight, that's a good reason for me to consider. But I still think that if these meetings were usually open but closed when there was a special occasion, we would add much of the discussion in our community. The media would have better access to discussions, for example, for the public to understand things, and for those not present themselves may be more familiar with matters. Often, in all kinds of discussions, we go to a carve, led by President, about what happened at some committee meeting. It is only natural for people to have different perspectives on what happens at a time. Humans are so that they do not always remember the same things and do not remember them the same, they do not experience them in the same way. That is to be expected. But again: There are reasons to open this meeting. That's the main thing I'd like to say about this subject. I think the fear of an open meeting is based on overrated factors. I think people underestimate the positive effect this would have on the community, the media, and even the members of Congress themselves. If this bill was to go through and we would normally have opened up a committee meeting I believe we could easily say to the public, to individuals who still feel something is omnipotent: What else should we open? Then there would be very few things over the head could be done to further open up the formal affairs of the council if this was also open. As I say. A major transparent body is the General Assembly. It's generally easy to access data here. Some people are committed to confidentiality, from time to time, to a meeting puzzle that belonged on the website and something like that, but my experience is that there are exceptions. Now I have made this clear, and I just want to say, finally, that these matters, how the Senate works, what Congress laws, what the Committee's rules, what the Constitution says, are the key to solving all sorts of other problems in the community. We are sometimes wondering if we should turn left or right, or go into this street or the rest when the tires are broken and the engine is broken. We're supposed to fix the engine first and change the tire and then continue on our journey. Then we can keep arguing about whether we're going down this street or not. Such things all of us should be able to unite in doing things, of course, with good reasoning and needed reasoning. But this is regardless of right or left, regardless of interest, it's about all of us, not just the council, but the public we're here to serve. Finally, once again, I suggest that the meetings of the Allied Regular Committees will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u72	Madam President. I just want to help you understand that there is a natural huge array of transparency in society. After reviewing this case of Hrafn Hynns Gunnarsson and our senators Pirata and after seeing how it presents itself in our summary of the legitimate requirements to open up a meeting we've been applying to us through the years, experimenting with the possible ways to open a meeting, in order for the discussion of committees to be transparent, it seems to me that the only requirement is always the strongest. It is the requirement for transparency when visitors appear before a panel committee when the committee is acting on a case referred to by the council. The committee will check to see if it's a good thing, a bad thing, if anything can be fixed, should we refer it back to the government, or what should we do about it? People appear before the committee, stakeholders in town, and explains how to handle the matter, and if that information is not available or is not available, the country does not have access to what basis we in committees make decisions as to whether the matter is good or not. It seems to me that the most powerful requirement to open up the public view of the people of the land is how the stakeholders, who speak in the strength of their companions, and who have to be careful about what they say in public, are quick to reason. That the people see why some matter that has been referred to by the Parliament should become a law or why something should be changed. This alone is the most powerful requirement. I can't see what other demands are like. paritaprevir The Hrafn Gunnarsson Helgi may be stronger, hinting that there have been inconveniences for the senators to say something, even if they can't fix it and they are not prepared well in their meetings, there are some unpleasant details for members, but I can't see that these things are stronger than the national rights to see when the stakeholders formally influence the legislature with their support. Hence, in support of that argument, members of the Parliament must build their own case when agreeing their opinion on matters and suggesting to the council: Let us do this - or not. It seems to me that this is the most powerful demand. Then I'd like to point out what open committees have done good for our society recently. You can visit the Generals Web and see what open committee meetings have been held. This is one of the things that Pirantar and I have given special attention. That there's this open, rich discussion in committees. However, in these cases it has not been a matter of Congress referred to as committees. We have been considering whether we should do the same in those cases. It takes only three members of a committee to call after all meetings are open, except under certain circumstances as the law tells us now, which this bill would, of course, expand and make a principle. But what we've done is call for open-label committees on matters that have to do with monitoring the European Commission. Let's just let the Americans decide if it's not right. We can review the open meetings that have been held. Laws need to be an open meeting on a financial committee report. That's not what we call it. That's the law. Why? Yes, the Money Policy Committee is informing the council of information that the people of the country have legitimate reason to have. But since then there has been an open meeting about the appointment of judges in the Country Court. It was good we got it, wasn't it? Even the minister of justice called for it himself. There was an open meeting on the preservation of evidence in criminal cases that the police were losing. It was good we had that open meeting, wasn't it? There were facts, men had to reason on how they did things, and they admitted that they needed to do things better. There was a meeting about freedom of expression last fall because there was a ban on the hour. There was an open meeting on the rise, where a parent of a severe sexual abuse was able to appear before the committee and inform her of what needs to be done better. It is just as much as the council refers to us when we are working on the constant committees, and we are to examine them and form an opinion of them. When stakeholders appear before the committee, they should inform not only us but also the people of the country publicly about their attitude toward how we should handle the matter. If someone says that something else outweighs that fact, let us also have that discussion open. I suggest that in the process of this case in the General and Education Committee they will be meeting regularly.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u73	A respectable president. I recommend here for a bill to legalize the removal of the law for the rest of the days. Transporters are Porta's party, boy. The members of the council, together with those of Björn, the Leví of Gunnarsson, Thorhirdd Ævarsdóttir, the daughter of Hevars, Halldóra Mogensen, a Smári Mccarthy, Jón Þór Ólafsson. The bill consists of two paragraphs. The first article, with permission from the president, is as follows: ▪ Law on Day Peace, No. 32/1997, done. 2.g. is a law code. The 3rd is as follows, by permission of the president: ▪ At the value of these laws, the following change in law will be about 40 hours of work week, No. 88/1971: 1.mg. Section 6. The law says it's Sundays, Christmas Christmas Christmas Christmas from Christmas Day. 13 Christmas Day, second day of Christmas, next New Year's Day. 13, New Year's Day, Judgment Day, Friday's Vow, Easter Day, Second Day of Passover, Day of Pentecost, Second Day of Pentecost, Sunday, May 1, May 17, and June 17. This article is put in there to meet people's anxieties because holidays stopped being holidays. The bill was previously submitted to Council 145, but it was not granted, and it is presented again in view of reports received at Council 145. The bill is suggested as a law for Mayday Peace, No. 32/1997, out. The aim of the law is to preserve the sanctity, to ensure peace, quiet and rest, and to limit the recreation of people on the holidays of the National Church. Transporters do not see a reason to limit the freedom of people by law, so it protected guilt from e.g. bingo, lottery, dance, or other meetings on the holidays of the National Church Icelandic society has made great changes in recent years and decades. A composition of the population has, e.g. change in religion and principles. Then the flow of tourists into the country has increased greatly, especially at Christmas and Easter. So it is shocking that while Iceland is marketed as its destination for the holidays, most restaurants and camped on the holy days. As a result, the demand for changes in the holiday law has become louder during the past year, bringing great interests at stake. Thus, officials in trade and service have publicly declared that the law needs to be revised for holidays and has been called a child of their time. It is necessary for employers to decide for themselves whether they will have an open date, but in agreement with employees and in accordance with the requirements of collective agreements for resttime and stress. Of course. These views are not isolated from stakeholders; they have also been heard from the ranks of the National Church. It has been suggested that the law does not take into account the community. It has also been noted that the nations do not follow up on any of the laws and realize that they have not been fully followed. While there seems to be a good partnership in the community about the need for a change in the day - to - day legislation, the carriers of this bill feel that it is the simplest and most reasonable thing to do. In view of the previously mentioned changes in society's beliefs and beliefs in people's lives, as well as in the light of the major tourist flows to the country, the laws for vacation peace are out - of - date, and the time has long come for the modern economy. The purpose of a law on holiday peace is to make sure that people who wish to practice rituals on Sundays and holidays get peace. Transporters feel that there is no reason to limit people's freedoms in certain days just so that other people can get them peace to practice rituals. It must be against the free society we want to value. In addition, the larger flow of tourists makes it more necessary for them to make changes in their daily calendars. Vacation and rest time are already guaranteed in collective agreements, but the movers suggest a change in wording of 40 hours of work week to ensure the right to vacation days further, so that instead of the holidays of the National Church are defined as days of vacation being listed in the law as legal holiday days, or some, they will simply be removed from the law on holidays and passed on to laws about 40 hours of work week. In the past, the bill was submitted to Council 145 and received a total of eight reviews in the treatment of the Universal and Education Committee. This will be a brief review of the reviews that depend on the rights of workers and the laws of about 40 hours of work. The National Association of Iceland did not consider the bill to affect collective agreements, but it suggested that this understanding be stated in the bill's report in order to settle any doubt. In view of this, the argument is not to be considered to be an influence on collective agreements; nor is the purpose of changing anything in this regard. BSRB points out that there are about 200 national labour agreements and that their contents are in many respects comparable. Yet, some of these may refer directly to laws on holidays in regulations relating to holidays. A review of the General and Education Committee concluded that if there were a disagreement in the courts, the law of the agreements would be generally viewed as valid. I'd also like to mention on this occasion that, on the projecting of the bill, I had suggested that this be done in the bill itself, the song itself, but then I was made aware and clear that there was no need, that would probably be, and that would just cause the matter to be complicated, and that would have no positive effect. According to a review by the Episcopal Office, the Council of 2015 concluded with the principal meeting of Iceland's Preservation Society from April 12, 2016, that the law of holiday peace would be maintained and reviewed. The removal of the law, including the removal of the Law, was discouraged. on the grounds that the law protected workers' rights. In view of this, two challenges should be made: First, the goal of the bill is not to reduce the rights of the workers, since transfectors submit to a change in law about a 40 - hour work week so that it is not to reduce the rights of the workers. Second, while such agreements are granted, carriers say within the labor movement that the legislator's role is not to define holidays but should be decided by collective agreements. A respectable president. There is not much more to say on this matter. I hope my explanations have brought about the concern people have of people's work rights. I believe it has become quite clear that these rights are not reduced. They have rights according to the labor movement themselves in their negotiations, even if the legislators take action and establish laws to support them, which are good and blessed, as it is suggested in Article 3. The bill. That's all I have to say about this matter. I hold back from reviewing other aspects of this law on holiday peace rather than the rights of working people.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u74	A respectable president. Thank you. to this bill and foreman, Hrafn Gunnarsson, for this. There's just one thing I want to talk to you about. A senator connected with this bill, that is what comes at the end of the report that speaks of possible effects on collective agreements and other such. The report refers to the review of BSRB and ASI of the fact that the 145th legislation was submitted if I recall correctly. However, the report lacks the last sentence in the review of the BSRB, which says, by permission of the president: To that end, it is especially important to ensure that the bill will be passed and the law will have no effect on the terms of a collective agreement. Hv. A senator came into this only, and the report speaks of the General and Education Committee and I would like to ask him to explain a little more clearly how these concerns are presented on the bill. I agree with what. A senator that it's important that it doesn't affect people's rights, because I think I know them, and I don't pretend I heard them. A senator says, it's in no way a matter of anything that attracts a bargain. How, though, will we make this our best guarantee? Now, many agreements are getting free, ready to do something else. How do we make sure that the bill, if the law, will not affect people's wages and markets?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u75	A respectable president. I briefly reviewed in my speech that following this review, I thought that putting an article in addition to the bill that would put it in some correct legal way that the law would refer to a law on the holidays of dress agreements to be interpreted as a law of about a 40 - hour work week. Of course, it has to do with those holidays. That's always what they're talking about, these blessed vacations. The information I received when I first submitted was that our legal system works, so if they were to be referred to agreements, they'd always be interpreted by when they were made. If we were to accept these laws, and then there would be a law that would be referred to on holidays, we would have good reason. However, regarding the agreements that now refer to the Sabbath peace in regard to this holiday, it would always be in court to interpret these holidays, as they are removed from law for holidays into a law of approximately 40 hours of work. I personally suggested that this be placed somehow into the bill, but I was simply told by very informed lawyers that there was no need, this particular point was not a real concern, considering that the holidays are taken from law on holidays and entered into a law about 40 hours of work week, the laws designed to protect the rights of workers. However, the law of holiday peace forbids all kinds of rights. I don't think it's found in collective agreements, but I'm not sure that collective agreements should have the authority to forbid people outside the same agreements to play bingo in holy days.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u76	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for explaining this better. I trust it will be discussed by the Senate committee. A top-of-the-art Board of Education took a look at these things. The reviews we've been discussing here, and I quoted earlier are about the bill when it was last proposed to the 145th legislature. It tells us that if it works, it will talk about 200 store contracts, so it may have some effect on the bill. I'd like to ask you what. A senator would have asked if he and other transporters had examined something further since the bill was submitted last. Has it been checked whether any concern that the BSRB might have been directly involved in collective agreements was warranted?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u77	A respectable president. I've mainly explored this through the expertise we have access to at the General Assembly in the restructuring of the case. But there are anxieties, and I hope that it is quite clear that there is no desire to pass them. The preceding committee did not return a committee party, and it never went beyond the committee. I'm totally assuming that if there are any doubts that this bill does not meet the basic conditions of transporters itself that it does not affect employment rights, the Committee will offer suggestions for its improvement. I must say, as it is, I hear these worries very much, have the same concerns and respect for them, but have not stumbled upon the real reason for them. This is natural because law on holidays is a child of its own, but the new law is supposed to have taken over about 40 hours of work. I understand that people are worried about this and they have a lot of respect for it, but I don't think that from my notice that this is a real problem anymore.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u78	Madam President. This is an interesting subject. A senator's order is here. I think it is long time for us to separate between public holidays and a national church that helped to respect people's religious freedom and divorce between Church and State. In this context, however, I wondered, " Is this possible because the holiday days of the nation still remain for the public days of absence or freedom? ' Rather, it is the exception of fewer religious holidays according to Christianity, and it replaces four, five, or six vacation days, of the 13th, if I recall correctly those mentioned. This could be a set of days of vacation because of religious reasons that would be done to respect the religious beliefs of others. The person could then make it known to his employer that it was their religious holidays, but they would be willing to work on its Christian holidays instead. I felt that it was in harmony with respect to other religions and religious freedoms that individuals have room in this regard. It is the most important reflection of a completely altered formulation of the nation and a much more diverse religious cover than we have ever been used to. The thought behind the law proposed to be dismissed reflects it. It is the spirit of the past and is happy to have a bill that encourages a review in these topics.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u79	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer, the question. The objective of this bill is primarily to eliminate this prohibition, that is the main point there. As the law reads, it's very obvious, at least from the ones it says, that this law is a child of its time and is no longer relevant for modern society. It's this easy solution to cancel that ban, just move the days into law about 40 hours a week, there wouldn't have to be anything to do with these laws, that's the way we went. There has not been a specific discussion, at least not at any formal meetings amongst missionaries, whether more freedom should be in what vacation days people would like to take over, not in themselves the goal of the bill to influence it, but much rather to eliminate this prohibition. I myself believe that it should be free of charge. There's something I've always found a bit strange, and I'm sure I have a very good historical explanation, that's an interaction between the landscapes, the legislatures, and the collective agreements. For example, if we were to offer a bill that we're going to change those holidays, have something different, according to the customs of our own religion or something like that, I think, my experience is likely, that the labor movement would say, "Have you nothing to interfere with this, dear senators, this is our business, we're going to make this decision, you can set a law to underline it. I think it's a bit strange approach, but fine, if there's some good historical context to it--but that's perhaps beyond the content of this bill--I would quite support some ideas in it. I find it strange, to say that certain religions, much less, the days of their holidays, are above the top of a national law.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u80	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I agree with the speculations in this article. It is special to look at this interaction between the collective agreements and the legislature in terms of these factors. In my mind it should be very clear, I believe that it is quite clear that there is a particular human rights issue that is taking place in terms of collective agreements, despite the fact that we have the legal environment that we provide collective agreements as terms of minimum labour rights. That does not change my view of this good thing. I think this is a long timely change, but I'd be interested that the factor would also be considered to provide individuals with additional freedoms to account for at least part of the legal holidays they would still be living with in harmony with their own religion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u81	A respectable president. I can agree with that with what. Senator. There is another legal relationship in which I find it more awkward than what is between the legislature and the collective agreements - worth a good pay, no doubt a fine reason - but there is a relationship between law on holidays and a workweek about 40 hours. That relationship seems strange to me. I think it is true that when a senator proposes to eliminate the prohibition against bingo and some in the sacred days of certain religions, people begin to worry about work rights. I feel that it has a story about how the right of work went into a law about the rest of the holidays. A child of his time. I'm sure the Church of Nations was at its time the only real institution that had really sympathy for working people, so be it, but, fortunately, it is no longer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u82	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson and his associates for this bill that I find most interesting. I seem to be quick to see that I am now more closely following its contents and will probably be able to support it. The bill does not interfere with holidays itself, and it is not a distraction. Still, humans can pursue a course of faith and nonconformation. Present - day laws are natural for a number of peculiarities and are used here by the expression "child of the day. " Reading definitions of what to and what not to do in certain days and what is considered to be a distraction is a bit fun. Art shows, concerts, performances, film shows, it seems to be okay. You can look at art, you can look for information, but you can't play bingo and any other parallel cards. I wonder if there would be a video game like, Covanter-Stike, is it a distraction of a ritual being in it? There's now a variety of rituals. It can be a Christian observance, and other customs may have some days of sacred service. This change does not interfere with man's having a right to his sacred service. We have laws that say that religious freedom should be respected, that it should be respected. I would like to ask myself, " Is there any basis for such a procrastination or procrastination? '
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u83	A respectable president. My experience with religion is that religious freedom is easily confused with the right to control the lives of others, something that I believe is not part of religious freedom as well as anything. It is not part of my freedom of worship to decide what. A senator eats for dinner or whether he chooses to play bingo, now or Couter-Stike. It's not my freedom of worship. On the contrary, if anything is, it would be part of religious freedom. No matter how much I feel about it, a senator films a number of such hard work. That's how freedom works. Freedom is not authorized to ban others. I know no better than the current religious freedom arrangement would do well for all other congregations and all other religions and societies. At any rate, I have not found that there is a complaint that there is so much bingo or ballet, or what it is that certain religions find it difficult to practice their religion exactly as they want and in the peace they want, something I think, as clearly. Senator, to self-denial rights. But I believe that these rights are already guaranteed by the regulations of religious freedom in a constitution. I think that'll do it. To say that, I am quite open to the idea of looking at some means to address such things, but I often feel that there are ideas about religious freedom and the right to govern the religious life of others.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u84	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. I just want it to be clear that although I'm positive for this bill and I think I can support it, that doesn't mean there's any statement about Christian observances, that there's something beinglittled or trying to make it a little lower, much less than that. Of course, Christians have the right to have their sacred place, as do others who do not share our faith, and of course we should observe that people are at peace with them and without a disturbance in them, but I don't see that when they worship their god in a house, they need to refrain from doing what they want to do in that same day. I don't see what bother it is if I play by the events of bingo, which few people play today, I think today, that it interferes with the sacred service of a church. [[The president calls.]] I don't get the point.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u85	A respectable president. No, that is correct. In this bill, there is no opposition in any way to the observance of Christians or other people. That's right. A senator mentions this as a feature of the discussion, which is always involved in these national churches. It is as if people especially have to say that if they do not share some special privilege of a certain religion in order to control the lives of others, they are not an attack on the religion. It's just not the case at all, it's not in any way critical of that religion or its observance or doctrine. I could honestly criticize them, but it really has nothing to do with this, not in any way, and I don't intend to criticize them in this discussion, but it isn't the subject, just as I intend to criticize the doctrine of any other religious body that doesn't have the privilege of forbidding others what they do on their holidays. This is not an attack on any human or any organization or any religion in any way. But I find it interesting to always have to say it specifically. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u86	Madam President. Here's a talk about canceling the holidays law. At the time, changes on the Sabbath law were likely to be made in an effort to clear the regulations for store and service on legal holidays. Especially because of the increased number of tourists, but also because there was inconsistencies in not being able to buy e.g. a dairy man living in Reykjavík, a man who had no problem in Seltjannes and all the fuel platforms that were open all over the country and had basic supplies for sale. On the other hand, I think it is wrong to say that the holiday law calls all holidays based on the Christian dogma of the holidays of the National Church. It is reason to include in our discussion that we are still talking about holidays related to all the majority of the population, including immigrants and temporary residents. In that country, about nine out of 10 people are quickly spoken. The emphasis as a carrier, huh? paritaprevir I believe the Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson is a misappreciative agreement in connection with this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u87	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u88	There is no evidence in the case that those who negotiate and receive do not comment on this change because the number of holidays can be cut into the law by 40 hours of workweek and contracts. It's in my best opinion a way to dust people's eyes. First, the Sabbath law has to do with much of the people, who will then be ignored by laying down the law. Second, the holidays and holidays are part of the nation's common culture. Third, she has confidence in our dealings with neighboring nations who live with similar laws. There is no evidence to suggest that the law has to be passed in the country because of the growth of tourists. It would be wise to consider a law about bingo. At one time, the lawgiver looked at bingo as a gambling person who should be banned. That point is truly a child of its day. Likewise, we do well to consider whether we are not already drifting past the ball law because concerts are allowed. I think it's very difficult to tell whether a concert or a ball is involved if the game is a Danish concert and the audience moves to a rhythm. These items are likely to be revised and adjusted as necessary, as long as they do not impair the right of believers to perform their rituals in public space on legal holidays and holidays. In fact, the only thing that has to be changed into law on holidays and holidays is to say that this is not the holidays of the Church but the holidays in general. Although the wording was legalized during the weekend of the National Church, it is based solely on the historical background that when the king of the Danish State banned all members of a religion other than the Evangelical luterese to have wintered in Iceland, there was no other holidays to discuss than the members of that religion. When this religion was named the National Church in the Constitution of 1874, it shaped the legislation, although the same constitution always ensured the right of all religions. In this regard it is proper to speak of the law as a child of its own time, whereas otherwise it is not. It should be noted that laws on holidays and their protection are not one of a special phenomenon. Songs on these materials are for example. to all countries in western Europe, except in France, special protection is not legal. Truly, part of that law is forbidden to interfere with religious practices during the holidays of Christian congregations. However, the maintenance of legal holidays is because holidays and holidays are part of the culture of these countries, and to protect certain people's lives, which not only ensures free time, but also contributes to the value of celebrating holidays, whether they are done on religious grounds or not. As indicated in paragraph 1. The law is the purpose of those who say, by permission of the President: For the holidays of peace, the law of these laws is used to protect rituals and to ensure peace, quietness, rest, and recreation of the public during the holidays of the Church within the boundaries of the law. Then, in 2 Cor. published by Jehovah's Witnesses. Of course, what is referred to here as the holy days of the Church is the common partnership of all Christian religions. There is no defined Sabbath of Christianity that is special for the national church. Hence, the pagan church must be stopped in this context. It is best to specify in the law what sacred days are set aside for holidays. This need to make the change that the holidays are not at first identified with the National Church because all Christian churches have these same days. Then, on December 1, and May 1, we need to add the special days of the nation's dedication, at least June 17. It is proper to also enter these laws as to who will be the nation's due days. In the 3rd. III. The chapter of the law is about the protection of the holidays and the rest of the days. By permission of the President: It is illegal to interfere with church services, church services, or other observances by noise or other things contrary to the ritual of the church. In Comb 4. is stated what is prohibited in these specified days. These rules have been clearly opened, especially in the opening of stores and other services, but it is likely to be a better look. A bill report says, with the permission of the President: ▪ With the bill it's suggested a law on Mayday peace, No. 32/1997, out. The aim of the law is to preserve the sanctity, to ensure peace, quiet and rest, and to limit the recreation of people on the holidays of the National Church. Transporters do not see a reason to limit the freedom of people by law, so it protected guilt from e.g. bingo, lottery, dance, or other meetings on the holidays of the National Church Vague rights and rest time are guaranteed in collective agreements, but in order to improve the quality of the payer's days, it is submitted to a word change of 6 g. The 40 - hour work week of law states that, instead of saying that the holidays of the Church are days off, days will be listed in the law as legal holiday days. To answer, it may be wise to specify in the law about a 40 - hour work week which holidays are bound by law. However, this does not replace the content and emphasis of the day - to - day Law. The need to protect people's right to rest and recreation is unchanged and, on the other hand, the gathering of all religions to their religious practices is protected, since war is not a matter of public order. The Constitution guarantees all the right to exercise their faith. The report further says, with the permission of a president: ▪ In view of the previously mentioned changes in society's beliefs and beliefs in people's lives, as well as in the light of the large stream of travelers to the country, the laws on holidays are out - of - date, and the time has long come for the modern economy. So, Madam President, the change in people's beliefs and beliefs is not as great as the movers think if a number of registered members are seen in these societies. As far as tourists are concerned, a great deal of tourists are just a Christian, walking into a god's house. This is not to be confused with the need for visitors to buy food and drink when hungry ones need attention. Again, the report says, with permission from the President: ▪ The purpose of a law on holidays is to make sure that people who wish to practice rituals on Sundays and holidays will be at peace with them. Transporters feel that there is no reason to limit people's freedoms in certain days just so that other people can get them peace to practice rituals. It must be against the very free society that we want to value. It certainly is true that the purpose of the law is even. to make sure that those who wish to practice sacred service get peace. It is also true that one's freedom should not impair another's freedom. Hence, it would be wrong to put into law that while believing people do their religion, all those who do not share their religious beliefs or actions should be required to do nothing. But this freedom, of course, is both true for those who wish to do their religion in public space and for those who refuse to do so. That freedom must be guaranteed by law. It is also not enough to specify a law on the length of the work week or in collective agreements which days are legal holidays. And it is not enough that criminal law guarantees that religious observance is not to be interrupted and that religious practices are forbidden. Madam President. My conclusion is, I'm sure it's a minor act of law on holidays, but it won't be allowed to remove them.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u89	A respectable president. Hv. A senator went over that this should not be the holidays of the Church; I'm just going to make it a weekend of the National Church; it's an institution, a government agency. I believe that the Almighty does not need a government agency so that Christians can practice their faith and worship their God and make him hear his prayers. What I feel is left behind from a talk. What about all the other religions? Why do Christians need this specific law code? Because we have a Christian heritage? Of course, the history of Iceland is a Christian story. It cannot be divided, either on the grounds of Christianity or in history. However, it is not the law that makes it a practice, a law on holidays, that does not make them read the Bible, or go to church. The argument that much of the public is a Christian, well, I wondered if. A member of the body feels that it is normal to have a special privilege for the more divided religious groups in other lands. I don't think so. I don't think it's a bad idea what it's like in some countries, like state-slash. I don't think it's a good idea. As a matter of fact, State Religion in Iceland. And there is no attack on Christianity. This law is not about Christian freedom, it is about the privilege of the National Church, the appointed church. That is shown in the law itself. All talk about a Christian inheritance does not change that fact. Like what? A senator himself is already in the general penal code that protects all religious groups from war and disorder, and from the like, and I agree. A senator says that Christians are to enjoy the right that everyone else has. I'm asking why. A member of Parliament: Why do these specific laws need for the State Church, or Christians? Regardless of how many people are considered to be members of that religion, why not share the same law for all?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u90	Madam President. Thank you. Shiverman Helgi Gunnarsson Gunrson. I do not view this as a privilege. However, I have emphasized the need to change these laws in a way that is not specifically discussed about the State Church. There is a change that needs to be made that requires that the church be discussed. After all, the majority of Icelanders are Christians.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u91	White too.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u92	There's no mention of the color of men in what I said. However, as shown in my speech, this is also pointed to the cultural heritage of the people. We are a Christian nation, aren't we?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u93	No.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u94	But the fact that a carrier thinks it's a privilege, I don't agree with that. I believe, however, that it is right to make some adjustments. But removing the law, I consider delirium, and I've called it here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u95	A respectable president. What a plan! It bothers me so much that I find it difficult to stay calm when it comes to it. A senator speaks of us as a Christian. Nations are not Christian. Individuals are Christians. The majority of the Icelandic nation is certainly a Christian, but the people who are not Christians are. I'm an Icelander, I'm a part of this nation, and I'm not a Christian. That doesn't make me any less of an Icelander. And I just hate talking about the part of Icelandic culture and nation that is simply not a Christian. Hv. A senator does not determine what religion I believe or which religion I belong to. That's up to me. And I can't wait to hear that. Hv. A senator did not answer my question. Why do these laws have - why? A senator does not want to call it a privilege, a good and good privilege, a word he would like to use upon it - especially under churches, Christian, pagan, or anything? Why not all people independent of religion? [[The president calls.]] What is wrong with religion's equality so that all will have the same right without regard for religion? What's so terrible about it?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u96	You're right next door. A senator says there is freedom of worship in Iceland. I view us as a Christian. Most of the nation is registered in the State Church. It is in the constitution that the government is to protect and support the national church. Then we must be a Christian nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u97	No.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u98	But, hey. Of course, a senator is free to believe in anything other than Jesús Kristur, and no one here objects.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u99	Oh, thank you!
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u100	I'm not gonna be a hairdoer at what? Senator on this. But I've said before and repeated the fact that I think these laws are necessary, including to back up the cultural and religious heritage of the nation that celebrated a thousand years of Christianity in the year 2000. I don't think it's a privilege, but these are important laws to be in effect and there's no need to be dismissed. However, some adjustments are likely to take place. That's what I've been stressing. I think that's why. A senator should only welcome that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u101	Madam President. I listened to a talk. A senator who is trying to figure out what he is saying and would want to hear from the senator. In other words, he would suggest that 1st pars. a law on holiday peace as they are now would be removed during the holidays of the National Church, it would be just holidays in general. Weekdays in Iceland, or does he want to keep the church? The Senator will admit it. He wants to keep the church. Then I can just say it's not the holidays for every church. Not e.g. The Catholic Church. My wife's from Peru, she's raised as a Catholic, and when she comes to Iceland, she's surprised: you have a day number two at Easter and another day of Christmas and other things. These are not the general days of Christianity. These are, however, the holidays of the Icelandic Church. If that was to be true of all Christians, the senator's words would need to be changed toward the holidays of Christian congregations. A Catholic Christian congregation is the largest in the world. But maybe it's a little hairstyle. This is just to show that these are the religious holidays, not the common for Christians, if we could agree on that. Of course, the senator is self - indulgent, perhaps to consider. Let us be in harmony with the way we want to change this. Then comes the other. For me, it's just that people have time and space to care for their sacred things. It's important. At the same time, though, if others are not forbidden to do what is sacred and important in their lives or to give them satisfaction, no matter what it is, at the same time. Did I get it right from the senator that he approves of removing all the regulations that forbid others to do his job? ' In that case, we are talking about regulations in paragraph 4. the prohibition against various practices of the time being committed, in terms of these timings, others are forbidden to care for what is dear to them. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u102	Madam President. I appreciate those comments. I don't really understand this by holidays and holidays of the Catholic Church compared to Christians. As far as I know, Easter is a big Catholic celebration. We're not talking about anyone else at Easter. We're talking about Easter on Friday night. [[Up front.]] Yeah. Then asked why. A senator would see if I had to consider the rules of forbidding certain things. I've said that, I'm a true member of this legislation. But I object to her departure. That's the point. Can't be viewed as having some kind of extremeism going on here. These are laws that have been in effect and that in my opinion are of considerable importance to the nation, to our cultural and religious heritage. It's like this in Western Europe and I don't see any reason to eliminate it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u103	Madam President. If I get it right, it's right here in the law, I have the latest version, I've checked it, and that says, by permission of the president: These are the ones to be considered: Sundays, second day of Christmas, New Year's Day, symbolical Day, second Passover These are the holidays of the National Church. If we are going to be honest with that, these are the holidays of the National Church. These are not the Christian holidays in general. Catholics must be Christian under the council. Was I mistaken? Catholics are Christian. Yeah, okay. Then we all agree on that. Then come what is very important. The Senator comes up here and says there should not be a ban on people, this holiday law shouldn't be able to do it, to forbid people to do what is dear to them in these days. Given that it does not interfere with the observance of others, of course. Does he not agree, then, that it should only be taken away 4. par.? And if not, and this is important for us to be honest in this discussion, what in this section 4. Don't you think they're supposed to take it away? Is it entertainment, such as dances or private gatherings in public restaurants? Because people are fined for this, and they don't have a license. Which of these would the senator want to keep? [[The president calls.]] Would he be willing to remove this?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u104	Thank you...
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u105	I'm going to ask the senator to wait for a presentation before he steps in a pita, please.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u106	Thank you, Madam President. I've said it and repeated again that I'm quite ready to look at these things. Among them was the Passover. It's perfectly safe to look at. It is primarily these large days of Christian celebrations that are Easter and Friday long, so I name them and have Catholic customs, as it was earlier. For prohibitions against the various factors mentioned there, yes, it can be considered. There's no one here denying that these things can be considered.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u107	...ready to remove...?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u108	I'm ready to look at this, yes, yes. [[Up front.]] What?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u109	Don't you mind removing this?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u110	I'm not ready to remove the law just the way it is. But I'm willing to go over it, of course, and with stakeholders, etc. These laws have been evacuated. We have to figure that out. For example, the land's trade and services have been met. There was a committee that reviewed these matters, and the law has been changed. But now it's ordered that they be completely suspended, and I'm against them.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u111	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The one before the speech is Þórarinsson's son. An interesting point was there, and indeed also in the exchange of words that have been here. What I'm trying to figure out is that we're talking about culture, calling the senator, and I think it's quite safe to say that we're right. It's the way it is. I don't think we're arguing about that in ourselves. It's also right next door. One of the most prominent members of the nation is a Christian, I suppose. In terms of culture, that we have something in our blood, and we need to support and preserve it, I don't quite understand why a law is needed to preserve an inheritance given to us. Why do we need to maintain the idea that this is what we feel? I don't quite understand. And then I feel a little bit twin in that they want to preserve the holidays in this way, saying, "We're ready to look at what can be done and what can be done like that, 'cause men have a right to rest, don't you? That's one of those. Some, though, need not rest in those days because they have to serve the tourists or the needs of the rest of us. So I don't understand, isn't it a little bit or something? Either we're all supposed to rest because it's a weekend that takes seriously, or we don't. Then you ask yourself, " Where does the threat of peace come from? ' [[The president calls.]] Does it not come from the Christian himself who lives in this country under those rules who want to play bingo and do anything? There are Christians on top of the world, I think.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u112	Thank you. Senator. He asked why this would have to be legal. We, the legislatured legislature, think things have to be in the law. Is it not true in Icelandic cases that it is legal, correct, and so on? To me, it's a very simple matter. It is to protect a certain religious and cultural heritage of the nation that we live in our neighboring countries. The needs of the industry, the store, the ministry have been met. That's why I don't understand why it's necessary then to go further on that subject, why these laws have to be completely eliminated. I've told you right here that I'm ready to see if you can't take anything out of what's supposed to be forbidden today. Of course. It's quite clear to me that there's nothing wrong with looking at these things and going over them, but I don't fully understand the view of being eliminated entirely. This tradition, as I say again, has followed the nation and is a religious and important cultural heritage that I think is absolutely clear that the law has to be preserved. That's my opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u113	Mr. President. The last of all, I want to start arguing with what. A senator about his views or shows him what his views should be or should not have. Now our community is changing. Some people like it, and others like it. Here is internationalization, and we are affected from various places. The population of Iceland is growing, including Because there are many who will be Icelanders. Some people favor other religions. Is the senator's opinion that when a certain goal is reached, if we are standing, for example. Does 25 years show that 50% of the people no longer live in the National Church or have another religion, the senator would believe that it was the right to eliminate all of this? [[The president calls.]] Or would he continue to believe that, as he says, there should be a special law on the Church's holidays? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u114	Thank you. Senator. This certainly is an interesting introduction to this discussion. In Iceland, after some decades of worship, where will we be? If Christians were to become less involved in this community and there were demands to revise the legislation on that basis, then it would be natural to have that conversation with the various religious leaders of the new religion who would be here in much greater measure. I really hope personally that the situation does not arise that Iceland's Christian will be in my part. But this is an interesting viewpoint and would likely be considered if that situation were to develop.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u115	Mr. President. It's a lot of interesting and interesting subjects to discuss here. In my mind, I think it's a little important to realize what's being discussed, what's weighed if it could be said, and why not. To me, this is simply a matter of our rich efforts to get custody against freedom. Let's look to what this is all about. In reality, the matter is about freedom to do what we want on this sacred day of Christian faith, whether it is a professional or a social club, a restaurant, or anything else, to keep our activities open or to the rest of us to attend the entertainment or entertainment we choose. We often have quite a tendency to be dictatorial in such matters. On the other hand, when it comes to such matters, we are often very pleasant practitioners. When we adopted Christianity over our heads, we were very practitioners. There was not much religious climate in the country that caused us to decide on almost one afternoon to change our religion, which had more to do with aish solution to a hostage crisis in Norway. There, they claimed to have found an excellent solution to that problem, and the Christian faith fell on top of it. When we adopted excommunications at the time, we also found ourselves in some technical terms because we had to secure foreign relations with Spain and therefore allowed red wine earlier than alcohol. Thus, these commandments and bans came slowly and slowly. In fact, the same is true. It is clear, of course, that there are already very widespread exceptions during this day - to - day peace. The list is: Housing and related services, drug camps, gas stations, automobile stations, airports and vacations, flora shops, sales and video stores, as well as shopping shops and shopping shops under 600 square meters - it's dangerous to have larger stores open - sports and outings, art shows, concerts, performances, and movie shows or the same kind of show. It is also possible to hold and provide access to scientific visions or to play a general role in information, as well as to have open libraries and libraries. There seems to be little left to this place but banning dances in those days. I wondered why we are so concerned about whether people, whether they are Christians or not, choose to dance in these days rather than any other day. We are not allowing people to practice their religion for freedom. In our constitution, we have a fine record of freedom of worship. And it continues to suggest that these holiday days, in themselves, remain as the days of the nation's vacation and, in fact, far beyond what many other Christian nations see in religious holidays. This has already been discussed in this discussion. I remember looking into it sometime in connection with my former jobs. I think we and the Spaniards are at the top of religious holidays that are legal or passed in collective agreements. Here, in itself, it is not merely a road or a tightening in any way the Christian freedom to practice his religion or to weigh the ritual in any way in my mind. Like other days of the year, freedom is primarily being guaranteed to engage in any activity that humans choose to pursue in those days. We also protect people's rights when it comes to vacations and holidays, both in law and in collective agreements, when it comes to working in those days. Of course, you can bear in mind that a pretty good-looking operation is being performed on those holidays today, as my list of laws shows. With the growing number of tourists in the country, there is much more now than ever before in the area of lodging and restaurants. That's why I think it's a long time for us to decommission this, loyalty, as it is suggested, this vacation day in the law about a 40 - hour work week, as if the movelers would suggest. But saying so, I am no longer a failure to eliminate those laws. I don't see much left standing. Of course, a few years more can be dealt with whether there are no more factors in the prohibitions found in the law. We may be able to spend some years adding to that list. I think it's getting a lot simpler, considering the size of my leaveovers already, to cut off the law and just let people control it. I think it's probably not the last time we've been dealing with things that are about freedom or custody. I fear that there is often a very rich will for the latter. However, I would appreciate more of my freedom. I think it's a good thing to tell you that it's time to change old habits and habits that have no reason to do so. It's fine to keep that in mind. It is true that the majority of the people still are Christian, at least to their credit. I myself have been raised as a Christian, and I am among those in the State Church, at least yet registered, married in church, baptized my children at church, etc., but surely I must acknowledge otherwise that I am not a very religious person. But it doesn't bother me with anything else that's allowed for other people to have fun on Friday. As a boy, I recall a wild ban on something fun that day and then have to watch another edition of Crucifixion on TV during that evening. This is blessedly changed. But it does not diminish the rights of people to make these days as solemn as they themselves choose. However, I think it is perfectly normal that we take this step to the full and say: Nor should it be strictly forbidden to work in those days or to entertain in the way that they themselves choose or practice any form of recreation they choose in those days. It's a long time to change this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u116	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for the discussion in this case. I find it important to make some mistakes and respond to some of the words that have fallen here. One of the points mentioned was that of the two. paritaprevir Þórarinsson, the son of Thorin, and even more clearly, suggested that instead of being called the holy days of the Church, they would be called the holidays of the Church. Now, there is a government agency called the National Church, the National Church of Iceland, which is specifically protected by this law in the constitution. This evil, evil law in the constitution, i.e. The People's Council, the State Church. Our constitution may not be tasteful of such flaws; it also contains good things like that we are equal to laws, such as 65th. Make the call. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ Everyone will be equal to law, enjoying human rights without regard to sex, religion, belief, ethnic background, race, color, economic, tribal, and otherwise status. Let women and men enjoy just as right. Now I realize that there's no third sex, or there's no gender, of course. It would normally be forbidden to have any particular discrimination in the law on the basis of religion, but we have this boring article there, which is 62 C.E. which says by permission of the president: ▪ The European Lutheran Church shall be a National Church in Iceland, and the State shall therefore support and protect it. Now I don't know if it is suggested earlier that the Church simply be called the Church rather than the National Church, i.e. in the same institution, or just calling it something else, or whether the suggestion involves that the law especially attracts Christians. I think it's the source of discrimination on the basis of 65rd. The constitution. This institution has this privilege. It's a privilege because it's in a constitution. If 62. gr. Would it not be impossible to have a national church? If humans want to go somewhere beyond the protection contained in verse 62. They have to deal with 65. g. Not for the first time, these two articles conflict. This is also shown in another excellent bill about the removal of Article 5. law on Christian Fund, i.e. The law that rural areas need to be given free property under churches. That's what I and others said, including... A restoration. There's always a noodle between these two articles. Then you talk to some lawyers about it, and lawyers tend to explain things in legal terms that crazy people like me don't necessarily understand very well. In time, though, you will learn to understand that law is somehow a law code that is not necessarily in harmony with what you say when you are going to read things out of the so - called common sense. Based on the so - called general sense, there is a very obvious contradiction between 62 C.E. and 65th But because this is the constitution and the constitution defines how our laws work, it works. Thus, it works legally, even though it is reasoned on a study. Then you can come here and say that it is so important that people have the right to exercise their faith and have peace for them, and therefore these laws need to be held throughout the holidays and all of them. All right, I agree with that. The only thing I'm charged with understanding, except with a reference to a complete predestination blind greater part used to predestination, is why some one particular religion must be ignored, let alone one particular government agency. Now I try not to get angry again, as I did earlier, when referred to as if more part of the Icelanders are Christian and more of the Icelanders are in the National Church. So what? Legal equality is not about those in the greater part, the people with a certain plunger will receive more rights than anyone else. How would people react if someone suggested -- Well, the majority of Icelanders are white? It's a little gross, isn't it? Isn't that underneath all the caves? I feel that way, and I can't stand that kind of language. It's about our being equal to the law, like 65. gr. The Constitution, regardless of sex, religion, beliefs, ethnic background, race, color, economic, tribal, and otherwise. What if the majority of the people were of a particular race? What if 51% of the Icelanders are male and 49% female or vice versa? What if 1% or 2% of that were neither, but an intersex? Will we then say that the sex that is in the greater part gets special rights? Is there no one here feeling as bad in my stomach as I do because I told these things out loud? I'm gonna go crazy because I think about it. Nations are not Christian, there is nothing to say that we are a Christian nation, and the greater part of this privilege cannot be justified. That is against the idea of equality for law, noble president. And it's obvious. It's somehow that tendency here to come into a pit and then act as if it's not relevant that those who are part of this particular part of the particular part of the world want the privilege, of course. Then why don't you see someone from the smaller part that's not a Christian, come up here and say, "Well, you know I still feel that the more part of it is not for me to have a special privilege. Why doesn't anyone say that? Why is it only the people who themselves are part of the majority of the privileged groups that come and serve as the same privilege? That's because it's all rational. My speech here was not meant to be about the relationship between Church and State. It just so happens that this discussion has made it so clear why we have a problem that we have this article, 62 C.E. The constitution. It creates such a problem, and it also created a problem that leads to communities'obligation to provide weights under churches. Of course, we're just supposed to be equal to the law. Period. Done. What's unfair about that? Now I happen to be part of a particular society defined in the law of such organizations as a lifestyle society, not that it has anything to do with anyone here in any way. Do you ever hear someone say, "Well, I'm sure a lot of good things will be right now when I'm in the big part of my research society, which I think will happen someday? That the same group will start fighting for special privileges for that partner? I don't think so. The same group are fighting against the rights of all members. He wants to have the equal of all religions. On the contrary, he does not want to defend everyone's rights over others. It is our duty here to do so, but not to favor the majority of privileges that happen to us to belong to ourselves. That's ridiculous. I don't come here demanding any privileges and special treatment for the philosophy of my life. It would be dishonest for me to do that. I'm going to make this work, Mr. Honorable President, but I'm glad we're going to take this discussion because sometimes I feel that the relationship between state and church is like some disgusting boil that needs a bomb so that things can finally heal.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u117	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson has made big comments about some of them. Constitutionary regulations that the government should support and strengthen the National Church of Iceland. Hv. A senator must accept that this law is in the constitution. I think it is necessary for him to realize that the greater part of the nation thought so, at the fine national meeting that was being conducted here some time ago, the greater part wanted to have this law in the constitution. Let us not forget that. The church is a Christian church. It's gonna be. A senator also accepts. But he is, of course, free to call this constitution various names that he mentioned here, which I consider inappropriate. I think the Senator must accept that this is in the constitution until it is changed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u118	A respectable president. Now we go back into a philosophical speculation that I wondered how you should approach precisely. Not that there's nothing wrong with it. As I told you before, I'm very much for them. One answer is no. I don't have to accept that. I don't have to be happy about it, I don't even have to be polite. I prefer to be discreet, though I still tell honestly what is in my heart and what I feel is obvious, as if I did in my speech about my opinion of this contraband in a constitution. There's nothing rude about it. But as may normally happen, some individuals who want to have this law strive to be offended when someone presumes to believe that the Evangelical Lutheran Church may not necessarily be what we all want and experience, apparently as a terrible rudeness, which it is not. But okay. I'll take it from the bottom of my mind that sometimes when it comes to this matter, it's the basic rights of the citizens. I just think it's appropriate. Men have fought and pledged their lives for such rights. So one answer is no, I don't have to accept that. I can be crazy about that. I may have opinions about it, may be asked to change it, may have my opinion, and may do whatever I want to do in that regard. The other is that in a certain way the answer is yes, I have to accept that it is the situation until it is changed. But that's right. A senator knows that I will make an effort to have this changed because I think this is part of a need for discussion. And I've said that to my brothers and sisters who favor taking away or replacing 62rd. The Constitution, concerning this state church phenomenon, that it must be successful before Christians become in memory because it is important that we be clear that we are not to have state churches or government institutions based on the more part of our lives. That's unscrupulous. Therefore, before Christianity becomes in the lesser part, we must separate kingdoms and churches. [[The president calls.]] I don't want to get rid of the State Church through the process of dechristating the nation. [[The president calls.]] That's not the goal. It's about the relationship between Church and State, not about Christianity.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u119	Mr. President. I have a question for you. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson's son. How does he feel about what has been presented and at the above - mentioned national meeting that the majority of the people want this law in their constitution? What does it look like? A senator of that?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u120	A respectable president. I have some opinions about that, as happens sometimes. One belief is that I would support the recording of a new constitution on the basis of a bill of government law, as laid out in the National Code of October 20, 2012. There's a lot of things in the bill that I don't feel about myself, that I'd like to change or change, but I'm letting myself have it because I think it's important to establish that constitution. And note, proper President, that this national decree was about that constitution, not this particular one. That's one opinion. Another view is that, and I realize completely that this is not a legal thing, but it is relevant to the way people interpret things, that the question of this national law was unclear. I've given a talk about it here, and I can totally point it out. A senator owns it if he wants it, if he wants it. But I'd like to see what would have happened if it had been a matter instead of a question that in the constitution there is a provision for everyone to enjoy equal rights without regard to religion. Then I think it would have been a little more than that little thing that paid it a vote. But most important, I believe: Things such as freedom of religion, freedom of expression, human rights, equality for law are not dependent on the fact that the greater part is in favor of them at one time. We do not go to a national law to see if anyone is to be given a fair trial, whether we will allow that particular person to have an opinion, not that of others. There are certain things that are in equal terms to the law. Sequence to law is the foundation of democracy in my mind. It's no use talking about democracy, whether it's national or anything else, without being equal to the law. The government basically violates that princely burden, so I will fight it with every means possible. But I would agree to vote with a bill based on a board of governance because of it. [[The president calls.]] I hope that answers the question.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u121	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you for this discussion and thank you for the zeal and zeal he has shown in his presentation. I wonder, however, that I have come to realize that because this organization has now discovered new allies at the Piranum, allies who want to run a block in May peace in Iceland and thereby a legal holiday. I'm sure they lick out, these guys now. This will not be in vain. Although I am a Christian, or I think I am, I will not go into some religious dispute. A senator or someone else in this room because I view any person as free to believe what he wants or does not. I do, however, feel that there is a problem. A senator and other traders here made the church some kind of enemy or opponent that I find completely wild, I have to admit it. Now it's not that although I am a Christian or think I am a Christian, I'm not lying on my knees all weekend, such as. And I don't care if anyone's playing bingo while the TV contacts are seeing them, so naturally they don't bother with it anymore when it's over. It may be a matter of reviewing laws on holidays, but usually a person with a bad cause will say: "This law is a child of its own time. I remember a minister who broke equality in his day. He said, "The law of equality is only a child of his time." There's no reason. Of course, these laws can be revised. There's one thing I run into, because this case isn't too well tore at. It says, for example. in the report: It will thus catch a hard time that as Iceland is marketed as its destination for the holidays, most restaurants and camped at the most sacred days. All December, my ass. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson is a trader in Iceland who works as slaves and can't keep up. And there's one thing I'm going to say. A senator of and other transporters: Ritual days are not always about faith. We have, for example. One day off, called the day of shopping. That day everyone in Iceland has a day off but a storekeeper. [[Up front.]] All of them. This has nothing to do with the church or religion or anything. This is not what we have to fight. There's one thing I fired myself at right now in the report, with permission of the Supreme Court. President: It is required that employers be allowed to decide for themselves whether or not they have an open date on the holiday... [[Up front.]] As I say, the champagne has now been taken in at SA. [[Up front.]] The continuation, however, will be in agreement with the staff and in accordance with the requirements of collective agreements for rest periods and stress payments. Now I challenge a carrier to make his way into the VR and ask the fine men there if they believe that employers in Iceland have conducted hours of work in December, in consultation with employees and in accordance with dress contracts and requirements for rest time. I challenge him to do this because this is the point. Whether we are faithful or not is of no importance in this regard. That's why I feel that these transporters are, in effect, barking at the wrong tree. It's been another thing here, I thought it was wonderful, in the report, with permission of the Supreme Court. President. As a jurist of his life's work, how wonderful this must be! ▪ It has also been noted that the church does not take any care of whether or not the law is followed and that it has not been carefully followed. Hello. If I were to meet a priest with handcuffs in his pocket and a bat behind my shoulder, I'd be first frightened. That's not the purpose of the church, huh? A senator, observing whether the laws of individual law are followed, no more than the real estate dealers are following us crazy because they think the law on real estate rights is not being followed. What's with the bullshit? There's a town where the law is maintained in Iceland, called the police, and we're going to talk about it tomorrow. It's their job. The report quotes tourists, saying that the larger flows of tourists make it necessary for these rules to be changed. No, it does not make it necessary. What changes in these rules would call for if this were changed by the tourist current, we're talking about delicate activity, we're talking about employees on the minimum wage that can't hold hands for their heads, they're the ones who would pay the bill, because the caterers are in the palm of their hands. They're going to pay double what they're supposed to pay. The price of restaurants in Iceland is now like they pay double what they buy every day of the year, so I don't feel sorry for them at all. I say again, I think the movers are mistaken by talking about privileges. Whose privilege? Now I'm in the Icelandic Church, but I assume that's what. A senator can't see that. What is my privilege for what? A senator? I'd like to hear it. I'll say one thing, too. In Iceland we were born into two institutions, that is the National Church and the RUS. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] We can resign from the National Church, but we must die in order to get rid of RUSH. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I can say what. A senator that if he were to present a proposal or a law bill that I could resign from RUS without being dead, we would be talking. There I would support him to the very end. But to think of it as being an institution of evil - I just don't understand the language. Now, one of the most powerful missionaries in Iceland is unbelieving, very busy. Does anyone object? No, not every man I know about. They are just selling their way of life as they are perfectly free. I think it's kind of reverse custody thinking to present this bill on these grounds. It has been observed that more than a part of the Icelandic nation embraces Christianity. Some people think it's sour, but that's the way it is. The majority of the members of the national law on a new constitution wanted to keep the State Church's laws inside. Slut? Maybe. I'm also a democracy, but I don't look at law and order or democracy like a buffet where you can choose only buried salmon and let go of the rest. It's not like that. Either you live in a democracy and take the conclusion of the greater part, or you just live somewhere else. It's simple. I simply admit it, Mr. President, I don't understand this bill which is, as I say, as written in the store hall or in the community of industry. I even heard two good men coming up here. Councilmen, I thought I heard that feeling of joy. These are men who have been working a long time in business and at the Organization of Business, and I thought I heard such a feeling of joy. If they think I'm wrong, they're against me. I felt a sense of joy that I had finally found a way to run a thorn in the Sabbath, holiday days, and sacred days in Iceland. Then there's something else I can't figure out. A senator and other transporters of this bill. They're not in the State Church, they have vacations all these days. Isn't it just luxury? What discrimination is there in it? In case of a moment. A senator and other carriers of this bill would leave, for example. To win, what then? Well, I guess I worked 11 years with police and customs. No matter what their names, Christmas days, June 17, New Year's Day, and the Buyer's Day, the only noncommittee who were not on vacation that day, the only people there had to walk in shifts every day. Of course, these people paid double because they were working at that time. I don't know if they were all in the National Church, I don't know if they had any idea, or if they were so bad about missing the service at 6:00, I have no idea. It does not matter in this context. What matters in this context is what is stated in the report, one more defect in this case in my opinion. It says, by permission of the President: A review from the Episcopal Office stated that the Council of 2015 agreed with the principal meeting of Iceland's Preservation Society from April 12, 2016, that the rules of holiday peace would be maintained and reviewed. Now I'd like to know: Was there something done with that opinion? As far as I can see and hear as they've said, "No, either these laws die or they don't." I don't think that I'm that black and white when I'm with KR. I believe in grays and other colours. They were doing something about the Presibility Society saying that it's a good idea to reconsider. Did they do something with it? Ask the Prestall Society: How do you want to change this? In general or in little things? Big or cheap? Is this something we can agree on? Why not? I don't think it's of any value to set the case up somehow like this: that atmosphere. To those faithless ones against those who claim to believe. I don't understand. I don't understand the need for this. We don't need divisive, there's plenty of it in Iceland, lots of it. Half would be too much. That is why we should be tolerant of one another. I feel like there's no tolerance for this bill. I have to admit it. If I'm wrong, I'll be right to tell you, I've got it all the time. But this may be what I have with this bill to check. I don't think that even if I'm rather conservative about it, there's no such thing as other law. I think the law should be the same at the Allied Council that it will last forever. That's different. However, I refuse this verbal abuse of my time, when we are talking about law and law. I just refuse. This is a poor excuse for opposing some law or specific aspect of law. [[Up front.]] Of course, we change things that do not last. We will. We change that we need to change, and we feel that we need to change our dealings with others who do not share our outlook on life. But to start standing tough and cutting people off because of their principles, to me it's really impossible, no matter what religion believes or whether they do not believe or how they live a life - style. I don't think it's my business or anyone else's. Of course not! But to pull down a whole legal column just because men are in a fray to the National Church, thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't think that's enough of a reason. I admit it. Now I think that this bill is going to the General and Education Committee after this discussion, and the discussion is good, and we're supposed to take it. There's no one afraid of this discussion, I don't think, but I don't think it's incomprehensible to make a difference about this. Now we'd be living together. A senator who handled the matter before very much, long west of the ocean. There is one holy day a year, the Festival of Thanksgiving. They don't even play basketball at Thanksgiving. [[Up front.]] People play basketball on Christmas Day, that's just cool. But they have one day, which is holy to them. Of course we respect it, but we don't respect what. All those going west know that Thanksgiving is going out for family time. Those coming here should know that it can be a limited service, although it is better to overcome it, but it is not to be overcome at the expense of those with the lowest salary in this country. Religious freedom is not to be used or paid for by labor workers. No, thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u122	A respectable president. I am next inclined to speak again in order to answer. A senator, but I think that any of us here will have enough of this discussion sometime, not me, but I'm willing to stay here long into the evening if necessary. Hv. A senator mentioned some things that I would like to say are wrong. Senator. He said there was no tolerance for this bill. The bill falls down one law about banning dance games or something like that. Is it not, then, intolerance to include such laws as Muslims, Buddhists, or atheists? Of course not! That's ridiculous. It's not about tolerance. Likewise is the word "wow." A senator that made the church an enemy. I specifically mentioned this before. It's not about Christianity. It's not even about the State Church. It's about the State's relationship with religion. See, a law on holiday peace is about, not about work rights, it's about religion, as it was so impressive at the beginning of the day. paritaprevir Even so, the daughter of the Birgir of Þórarinsson before. paritaprevir Sæmundsson blessedly stayed away from his religious discussion when it comes to defending these laws. That's what it says. A senator who is now to be torn down legal columns because men are in a frayed state of the State Church. It's just wrong. I wish the State Church luck. It is totally without cause to me that most of the Icelanders are Christian and in the State Church. The only thing I don't feel right about is that we don't have real equality to law. These laws are its characteristics. That's what the bill is about. I would appreciate it if fine senators would stop putting words in my mouth. It's not about religion, about Christianity, or my opinion of Christianity. I would feel exactly the same way if I were a Christian, just to be said. I'd like to ask you what. Senator, I'm getting ahead of myself. Hv. A senator spoke earlier about employment rights and all that. Now it is clear that the goal of the bill is not to compromise anyone's work rights. Is there a law on holiday peace that cannot simply be transferred into law about 40 hours a week? [[The president calls.]] I'm asking because that's exactly what the bill suggests. [[The president calls.]] Everything in the laws of vacation peace that involve employment rights is suggested to be a law of approximately 40 hours a week. [[The president calls.]] What's left?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u123	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator is a great man for the counter-sponsored. I still think he's lost his way, just to be said. I still look at it, though it is said in the report that taking care that 40 hours of work and take off, and all of this is okay, we're already in that position, with the old law in force, that it's not working. Resttime e.g. Businessmen in December are not working at all. It's just that kind of thing. These are the earners in Iceland who are in the worst possible way to defend themselves, just like those who work in the food business. They are a largely imported labor force that is even badly treated and that shames us Icelanders. People can't protect themselves. If it's still fired, because it's being thrown to this level with the bill, I'm not gonna get off it, then I think we're gonna have to. A senator can agree that things are worse than at home. However, I reiterate that, of course, it is necessary to revise laws if they fail to resist the passing of time, as I said earlier. I ask, however, why was the Prestatine Society's apparent right to the movers in 2015 to revise the law in some way? If it has been corrected, then why? A senator to me. But I ask, " Why fight about this matter when it can be won peacefully? ' That's what I don't understand.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u124	A respectable president. Now it's gonna be a bad time. A senator responsible for having someone else disagree with me on this matter. I just disagree with those who want to keep those laws. It's as simple as that. And I'm a senator, elected here, and I'm offering the case because I think so. Well, that's not the focus. Hv. A senator, a church man, or whoever it is, as long as I remember, is not all church members, must be somewhat at odds with it. Hv. In his talk, a senator said that the employment organization was licking and that work rights were a big deal. I repeat, anything that lays. A senator can direct me to the law on holiday peace that concerns work rights, which he believes disappears by removing these laws, I would like to know in order for us to legalize them about 40 hours of work. There's no difference in these laws. They're both in effect. We could take all the gloves, put them at the end of the law at the end of a 40 - hour work week, and that would have the same legal mercy, I suppose. I hope no lawyer is winking at me here. [[Up front.]] Therefore, it is suggested in the bill that these days will be made up of because they can be done. It's easy to solve, and there's a lot to it. The goal is to cancel the ban. It's not cutting people's job rights. Hv. A senator also asked earlier what his privilege was for being in the National Church. Let me give you three. Hv. For example, a senator receives a less expensive service for an employee. Senators, elected agents, make a special trip, I think twice during a term, if not four times, to the National Church to discuss its interests in particular, no other religious institutions will be visited. Then there are churches, the original National Church, but now it is controversial, compare with other issues proposed by Piratar and Byresurrection, free of property from rural areas. There are many privileges people get for being in the National Church. There's a lot of them. There are three, just to be said. What I still don't understand is what's in the law on holiday peace that can't simply be transferred to law for about 40 hours of work week. [[The president calls.]] Here's the thought that we don't want to impair the rights of the workers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u125	Mr. President. I thank you again. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Now it's not that I need to see this chair here as a confessional chair. But I can say what. A senator that since I became a senator I have made a trip to a church as a senator for one thing, that is to participate in reading Passius in the special Hallgire Hallgrímur of Pétursson, which is one of the greatest honors in the Icelandic language and is, in fact, at the same place in my mind as the Matthewspassia of Bach, a great work of the spirit, whether they believe or not. What is it on this bill that could not be in the law about 40 hours a week? Now I'm just pointing down. A senator says that we are already in a delicate state of life when people who are sensitive and ill - willed to their employers, despite current laws for peace and at first have difficulty refusing work, also find it difficult to attend their rights, and find it difficult to obtain the appointed rest period. I fear that if the situation of those people is further cleared, they will simply be even worse than it is now. Maybe I'm wrong, that may be well, but I'm just talking about reality as he sees it now, with laws in effect, the laws of May Peace, and then I see no better than those people, the most sensitive people in the labour market, with the lowest salary, the longest working time, would be even worse off. [[Up front.]] I say again to what. A Congressman: Why not choose peace because of its existence? Why not make the necessary changes that everyone agrees on being needed on law for holidays?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u126	Mr. President. Last year, the Senator says that he is open to changing the law on holidays. In particular, he feels that the job rights, even though he has been told that all rights to peace, for leisure time, would shift to laws about 40 hours of work week so that they were still there. The senator noted that although the Mosaic Law is in the sacred law, it is not effective. So why don't we take them over and let them work and do things better? There would be one way. Hv. A senator could make a change of motion at the bill, which would make it more sure that this law was working, that's one thing. It sounds to me that the senator is not interested in supporting the bill. Let's see if he's willing to make some adjustments in order to ensure this point about working people and their day off. It's about working people that these days are there, so people can get their own vacation, but they may not be working properly. How, then, could we change the law on holidays so that they might be working for workers or working people? If the senator feels, as he spoke in his talk, this is primarily about that interest, then we cannot eliminate certain practices on the weekend referred to in Article 4. The law as they are today? It is said that on the holidays of the National Church, certain rules apply: It is forbidden to prohibit entertainment and dances, bingo, and so on. If the senator's real will is to protect working people, would we be able to remove these things? Or does he want to keep it inside, or just have a conversation about what we could possibly do with it? Can't we just remove it completely? I ask that we get it completely and honestly exactly where the senator stands in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u127	President. I made it clear in my speech, I thought, that I thought it was the best thing to take out the law on the holidays law that bingo was forbidden. I admit, though, that if I am not absolutely certain that what is done is beneficial, I will not take pleasure in laying down entire law columns. If I'm sure that'll help, I'm in on it all by myself. There's one point we're forgetting about this conversation, when we get to this about the holidays peace, that's the existence of the National Church and support of it in the Iceland Constitution. People can be sour or not sour. They can be happy about it. But as it happens, when asked last time, the people said themselves, " Yes, I want a national church to be in Iceland. ' I would have no objection to the fact that this would be a separation of state and church, as is essentially the case. The fact is, however, that the United States could not afford it, that is just that simple. If the church was to be returned to all its property, I think the state fund would be in bad shape. For pragmatic reasons, I feel that the present situation is in order to improve. It is one government agency that we cannot resign and that we cannot leave without death, that is, VOLV. We can totally take that debatt to ourselves. But I say, I fear very much, as the current situation in the labour market, that if we were to take this thing away, it would be a pleasure to reduce the number of red days, so I'll just speak Icelandic. I'm very afraid of that. I say again, this takes on those who have the lowest salary and are the most dedicated to the labour market.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u128	Mr. President. There's a serious situation in the labour market, we know that. I have requested a special discussion with the prime minister of reconciliation at the labour market and advice board. If this is an act that really matters to the senator that I believe is, I ask him if he is not prepared to add his weight to the scales, calling for the government to correct the salary of the senators who received this tremendous increase in their time. We can do that with the discussion. It's not working out. A senator made a call saying that he does not want to accept the bill we now address because it is the worst case for the people in the country, the people who are the worst. This is precisely the kind of people who may be heading for a massive strike because their salary has not been corrected and reduced in accordance with the general pay program. If the senator is willing to take that fight with me, I'll bet that his case is now about those days of vacation and pay and the condition of the workers who have the worst. Let's go back to the bill we're discussing. How important it is for people to be honest when they present themselves in a public talk about it! I'm beginning to question a little bit about what. A senator because he dances around these things. Yes, he will. He'll take the bingo out. But why is the senator not prepared to say what he wants to keep inside? What can be said about performing on holidays? If he wants to change the bill of holiday peace, is it just the bingo that can be taken out or what? I think it's a little bit more conservative than that, I understand that the senator is conservative. But he's just to say openly that he doesn't want that 4. The book that forbids various forms of conduct on legal holidays is underneath. It is his conservativeness that says it is. Then let us hear it and be honest with it. The man's a conservative. Let's get it on the table what it really is that drives people on in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u129	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator very much for this answer. I believe Iceland's highest pay force is on the wrong path when she intends to work together the potential reduction of any group, whoever he is, and use it as a weapon to help the lowest paid in Iceland. [[Up front.]] At the same time that these same leaders themselves have increased their wages far beyond the group they are now demanding a reduction in order to make better contracts. Now I'm asking why. A senator: Where is this honesty he was talking about? In itself, I don't believe in this. However, I have made arrangements to present myself in a certain way to members of Congress, in comparison with several other classes that work for the State. I hope that the fruit of it will be seen here by light on the spring day. That's another story. I'm afraid I don't have a problem with the four of us. and look at it, but I also stress that peace about these festivals is important to a great deal of people. In the society in which we now live in which we are harassing all the days of the year, day after day, we do not get any restful time and leisure that we can have, whether we go to church or go out or do what we do, we do nothing of being unprovoked for a while, that we have money at some point. Therefore I am conservative, yes, true, I am; I bear it with me, that men may have peace, and that they may defend themselves with their neighbors.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u130	V.E.G. President. I recommend a synonym which is found in Council Report 207. No. 135. This proposal is for the recording of a uniform index of consumer prices, and it reads: The General concluded to hide a financial and economic minister to appoint a team of independent experts who identify the benefits and weaknesses of making changes in the calculation of inflation and insurance insurance so that the standard index price will continue to be used, instead of the indicator number of consumer prices. As a result of the analysis work, particular attention will be given to the use of inflation in major Iceland's business countries to assess the impact this change would have on remuneration, credit rates, securities of loans and interest. A report by the General of the Council, with key results no later than September - this is actually 2017, but this year's reimbursement has obviously been proposed to be 2018. I expect that. The Economic and Business Committee will be improving, making this obvious change in the subject. Otherwise, it only fits itself. Now these things come to pass, and to no one else to be accused of this, except he who stands here, that he might not change the number of them. Artists to the proposal are accompanied by those who are now in charge of the case. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristoffsdóttir, Linika Anna Sævarsdóttir, and Þórunn Egil's Egilsdóttir. The aim is to adopt a consistent index of consumer prices, as it is called, with the main differences affecting the housing of the current consumption index as a basis for changing prices. According to one report, the proposal was first submitted to Council 145, then reimbursed at Council 146, and was not replaced, but is now presented in the same form, except that text has been added to the report. The suggestion itself, however, remains the same. What has changed since the time the proposal was made is that there is a new government. The highest. A government that is now interested in studying these matters fully and is well aware of this. Therefore, we feel that it is important to reevaluate the matter and to receive support from the council to follow through on the matter. By permission of the president, the government covenant of the present government says, on page 18. 10 In particular, word for word: In the past few years, a significant increase in consumption rates has resulted in more than an increase in the head - to - be - assured loans. The government will start an opinion on how to remove real estate prices from the consumer calculus. So the proposal presented here is in full agreement with the government covenant, and it wants the current supreme. Governments. Besides, linking it to the highest level. Further, the government said and presented it in the government covenant, and now I speak a word of the covenant, by permission of the president: The government will take progressive steps in the terms of the terms taken for the decommissionment of insurance on loans, but at the same time they will be attacked on counterweight measures to protect young people's potential and to earn less housing. Special emphasis will be placed on maintaining economic stability. Furthermore, the government wants to provide incentive and support so that a home it chooses can turn out to be disloyal loans. I refer to the covenant because it relates these matters. It's important to look at the index, I don't talk about if it gets a good step, and now I speak from the heart in that matter, to cancel the insurance insurance on consumer loans. Hence, it is important to consider the index in this context, and compared with our neighboring countries, how this standard of inflation is treated. Much of our loans, as we know, are indexed or insured. In this country, the index price of consumers is calculated as a measure of inflation and calculation of price insurance since 1995. Until that time, from 1979 when the insurance base of the loan bonds was attached to laws called the Olafs Law, using a composite index, it was up to 1989 to one third of a building reference and two thirds of the so - called staging index, and it was called the loan sheet number. But from year to year 1995 it was combined with equal production, construction, and remuneration rates, one third each. From 1995 on the index price for insurance, you can find the calculation of the index for insurance at Iceland's Habitat, where Iceland's Habitat calculates and displays the index of consumer prices in accordance with index prices law, No. 12/1995. Since then, as I said, it has been used as a basis for insurance on the current growth and insurance law. In addition, in this connection I would like to highlight an excellent overview of this trend in a report on the decommissionment of insurance, or Vilhjálmur Birgisson's personal opinion, published in January 2014. It was the will of the highest order. Governments on the terms of the ideal period, 2013◯2016, to eliminate insurance but to report only two excellent reports. I can honestly say that I'd wanted to take it all the way and take into account a report published in the opinion I mentioned, but on the issues insurance is covered in terms of growth and insurance insurance, No. 38/2001. It has a set of criteria which should be used in terms of insurance bonds that meet the requirements of the law. The two reports I entered were basically in agreement, but more of the committee that split up with this special Vilhjálmur Birgisson's party, wanted to slow down the insurance cut of consumer loans, real estate loans, while Vilhjálmur Birgisson wanted to take the step then and when. We are here and now measuring this case, appointing a team of experts who will identify the pros and cons of changing the calculation of inflation and insurance insurance so that a consistent index price will be used on the basis of an index price. Of course, it is linked to insurance loans. That's why I'm coming into it in my speech. I would also like to say that in the report of a large part of the appointed group, it was made clear and was directed to take important steps, as I was here. The European Union uses the so-called uniform index of consumer prices. I think often during the discussion it's not quite done, and it's understandable that there's not a complete understanding of the difference between the index and calculation across Europe and Europe in general and the index prices here. However, housing costs are taken into account. Here's a special feature called a rent-in. It is, in fact, there. taking into account the cost of binding money to property. Therefore, it is equally important to request a report by experts on the benefits and problems before continuing to do so. That's why we move to a Senate resolution and we want to press the matter afterwards. Of course, our purpose is always the same when we have such standards of price change, to ensure a consistent level of inflation in our countries. The consistent index, then, is used. One thing I'd like to include in this context about the difference between those indicators is that by countries it differs how practical it is to get information on real estate assessments. Therefore, in many European countries it has been delayed to calculate this housing. A review of the case at the end of the third year showed that, at the end of the case, the last case here was 2017, this calculation of the index would have been taken comparable to what is going on here. This may well be the case as to whether it is in the right direction. This is vital when we have standards like this that we are simple, understandable, as well as comparable between nations, so we can compare ourselves with other nations in this regard. The role of both indexes is to measure the prices of a product and service that the public buys for personal use, while different types of products are fundamental to either index. Likely most of the cost of their own housing is involved. Has an increase in housing prices thus calculated into the index of consumer prices but has only a secondary effect on the development of a uniform index price for renting. Keeping housing prices and costs outside of products that are calculated for consumer calculus has supported the point that this is more than simply an investment. Another major difference in index is that the cost of tourism is excluded from the calculation of the index price of consumers, not the consistent index of consumer prices. The cost of inflammation using the index of consumer prices is generally greater inflation than the standard index of consumer prices. As a result, housing prices and the cost of your own housing are of prime importance. That's how it came, e.g. ... in the 4th issue of Iceland's National Bank of Money in 2016 that the annual price for inflammation in October that year would have been 1.8% but the index price for consumption without housing dropped by 0.5% from the previous year. Vasculitis according to the agreed index of consumer prices would have been 1.1% in September 2016. Clearly, such differences can have a significant impact on the development of insurance loans. This proposal is also, and I would like to agree that, in line with the conclusion of the European Union, which challenged the government and the General Assembly to exert themselves on the terms of consumer prices for insurance, according to the terms of growth and insurance, they will be calculated without housing. It is our intention, a respected president, to provide a comprehensive assessment of the benefits and defects, and this will be demonstrated before such a change is made. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u131	Hv. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for the speech and this proposal. It's a suggestion I know a little bit about. What I am merely thinking about may not be the contents of the suggestion as such but the contents of the Treaty and this suggestion. The government covenant, in the chapter on housing, has included: by permission of the President: The government will take progressive steps in the terms of the election period to decommission insurance on loans. Also: In addition, the government wants to provide incentive and support so that a home it chooses can turn away valuable loans into infidelity. There are two aspects of the government covenant that are certainly related to this. Then, in this same chapter, it says with permission of the president: In the past few years, a significant increase in consumption rates has resulted in more than an increase in the head - to - be - assured loans. The government will start an opinion on how to remove real estate prices from the consumer calculus. I'm asking why. Senator: Is this council proposal to release the government from the work in the government covenant? So may we not expect this to include a matter of Congress from a minister of finance and a work laid down in the government covenant? Is this because the motioners do not trust the secretary of finance to present such a case? Why is the Synod, the members of Parliament, who make such an offer to do so in this way when it is quite clear in the government covenant that the government is going to do this? I don't think it's unusual for any member of the council to present such a case directly to the head, which is clearly in a government contract, and it might be expected that a minister of finance would have to make a statement.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u132	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson for the question. On the contrary, it is reasonable to ask, and it is good to have the opportunity to say that, on the contrary, there is full confidence at the highest level. Financial and economic ministers. This is a political arrangement, and the nature of such a proposal is to get the council behind the issue. Governments. I believe that there is strength in it, when we are brought forth in the government covenant plans of the highest order. Governments, looking into the council's thoughts and hopefully getting its full support; there is the strength to follow it that way. I think there'll be support for the highest level. A government if you can. Besides, we're here, the executives of the motion, showing our heart in this matter. Thus, the matter can be read, not by some lack of confidence, that it will be followed, but by the contrary.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u133	A respectable president. Does that mean, then, that the senator can be understood so that we can also expect a political matter to come from the government on the same issue? The Constitution says, by permission of the president: The government will start an opinion on how to remove real estate prices from the consumption index. This sounds like double-work, unless this is simply so that the fine senators who make this claim are saying their thoughts; that they want to have it printed in Congress documents that they thought it had happened even if the secretary of finance does not present any affairs in this situation. Or is this because there is not a strong or firm word in the government covenant adopted by the same members of Parliament? For us outside the board of directors, this looks like the government's covenant was designed to make it impossible for humans to trust in the fact that everything there is going to be done. If I remember correctly, although I don't have a commitment to that issue in my head, I have a feeling that there are other issues of a similar nature coming along, that this same body of members, so on the other hand, would like to judge more strongly about things in the government covenant. Then you begin to wonder: " Is it really so that the members of Congress do not trust the minister to contribute such a matter? It sounds beautiful to have the council behind the issue, and it certainly does matter. But we also know that government launchers are being given special treatment here at the council. They take the lead in other matters; they are stressed as handling them. I must ask again whether we can expect it or not to be passed on a matter of Congress from the government as outlined in the Constitution, in effect on the same subject. Will be the secretary of the budget or possibly the head of the budget. Another minister doesn't present such a case at the council? I'm asking about this council proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u134	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this question, of course, is understandable - why. A senator is once in a position of government. There will be more people than the couriers who will be given the opportunity here at the council to discuss the matter and until it is possible when the government gives a bill. In addition, the matter will be discussed in a professional way on the committee and on the whole council, with all members of Congress allowed their thoughts and feelings to be examined. Let us consider this professional subject, that we get the members and experts involved in these matters to state their opinion, that the matter will be sent to issue, that the council is talking about the matter, and that we think of hiding the highest order. Economic and financial secretary taking the case for the treatment. There must be support for the whole thing, and their intentions must be the highest. Government to complete it. Then we'd get a prospective bill followed by a minister. It is a request for those who present this case. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u135	Mr. President. This is an interesting suggestion in itself. I find it interesting, though, to discuss insurance bonds and, in particular, the prohibition on insurance and the added emphasis on irresponsible loans that it is often forgotten in the discussion that consumers have a full choice today. They can accept security as security loans, and they simply choose the insurance policy because it has proved to be less expensive at high times when compared with unconvinced loans. If there's no insurance policy, I don't see a lot of difference. Of course, you can always wonder when these issues are being discussed, " Why are the causes of the problem, which is simply the cost of our coin? ' The constant growth rate in which we live is 4How5% in terms of interest, has actually been the whole time the current money policy has been in force with the related costs for homes and businesses and greatly reduces the competitiveness of companies, e.g. in competition for import and also in the export of other market areas. That doesn't seem to be a big interest. This cost of the crown is seldom discussed, and why do we keep it? What I am thinking, however, is the wording of both government objectives and that proposal. The objective of the government is, by permission of the President: The government will start an opinion on how to remove real estate prices from the consumption index. The objective of this synonym is to appoint a team of independent experts who identify the pros and cons of changing the calculation of inflation and insurance. It seems really to me to the government's aim that the solution has come, there's nothing more to consider. A consistent index price can be adopted here in place of the previous current index and thus solve this housing problem. That's why I'm asking. A senator: Is this not to be carried out simply instead of having to be examined on committees? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u136	Hv. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn Víglundsson of questions. The first question, of course, turned to the insurance policy and to what is sometimes called a prohibition on insurance. There is no one else to blame, but to me as a suggestion for having gone into that course, for that may not be the case. I've chosen myself not to think of it as if we were going all the way to decommission insurance to talk about being forbidden by insurance. Rather, changes in the arrangement. Of course, insurance is nothing more than growth, such as why. A senator came in, and that's where we agree. I say it's just supposed to be interest. In a contract between two parties, determine who the interest is but not to calculate some secondary size of some other change in prices in society. Then we could expand the discussion even more and go to the currency debate. Back to the case itself, I think it's important that we examine this difference in the housing staff. He is in the discussion, the UN has concluded and supported this matter, and he had a positive report on the matter. The house - to - house staff and these differences are in the discussion. How important it is when we have such a standard of agreement between nations and, of course, from one year to another and from the other, but it is also important that there is a agreement between national and national standards that we have in business dealings. This may be why we want these jobs to take place, evaluating the pros and cons of their work.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u137	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. We can agree, and we can certainly agree that neither of us are considered to be exceptionally valued insurance. I, however, view her as a disease of the coin, i.e. that the home's payment on unscrupulous loans has been so high that homes have searched into the insurance policy to cope with it. That's the way it's been over the years. Of course, it is the interest cost that we have to overcome primarily. What I'm wondering about this particular solution, by the way it seems to be quite well thought of in itself, is that here we are referring to a uniform index, so it is an index like most European countries can combine to measure prices. In the end, this is just a decision on how we're going to measure inflation, and it's consistent with all the standards of inflation and any meritable commitment, whether it's a pension debt, a loan, or something like that, that it's done in the same way. If so, there will be a way to reduce the importance of the housing team or the increase in shelters that men would like to put around. Therefore, I believe this in itself must solve the problems of the government, at least to consider which paths are effective. The consequences may need to be considered. Just as part of it I've wondered about it, and would be interested to hear the opinion of the mind. A senator, who now has a real - estate tendency to rise up over the price limit, but he likes to stand in place or even lower during times of subtraction, thus holding back inflation. In that case, it may be more likely to focus on the timing of such adjustments. At least we're quite high at the point of the economy and real estate prices right now. I wondered, " Did these changes come about? '
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u138	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's input. I would have liked to add this to my speech earlier. That's right. The economy has an effect. And so it is that the main factors for the price development over the past few years are the development of housing prices, for the increase, and that, of course, is the tremendous concentration of the crown, resulting in reductions, as counterweight, so that we have experienced prices here in the past four years. You wonder, though, about the position of a housing market, the great lack we have discussed in the Hall of Congress, that it is really justified when we draw it out as some kind of sacrifice for a living place and depend on our nonexistent index, with the uncertainty ahead, and this great shortage. In fact, it is justified that it will only bomb the loans of those who invest in housing. You're right. A senator suggests that there have been times in our economy, where the housing team is temporarily reduced. Clearly, if there were to be a rapid build-up of house - to - house prices, then there would be no great pleasure with that timing. It says that I believe that we should be as much and completely in harmony with other nations in how we rise such a standard as this is a control standard.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u139	V.E.G. President. Thank you. His testimony to this proposal is made by a member of the House of forwards. I'll admit that when I saw that suggestion, I thought of a story of a woman that I heard at some point; it didn't have much confidence. And when he came to his garden, when he had taken care of the cake she baked, and liked it, they asked, Who made this cake? And she said, I, in case I should call. This came to my mind when I saw this proposal made by a member of the Agency party, which, in itself, is the lowest common subject to this matter. This is the smallest step you can take in this matter. Hv. The traveller reviewed that this proposal was fully in harmony with the government covenant. I don't doubt it. It's as bad as this suggestion. However, I've noticed that this is just part of the House of forwarders'council to make this suggestion. Where Are the Independents? Where are the members of the VG? If they were also there, it would likely be a form of government. As it looks now, it's just a senator's proposal. You may have agreed that this was a little direct enough to escape through the eye of all the government groups, that's possible. But I have to admit, it's not much of a surprise. This government covenant, apart from those chairs behind me, has been stifling the short straw from the rest of this body of government. Other than that, there is little fine art in the government covenant, which has already come to be known as the term and influence of the Action Party. The Mosaic Law also states, on page 26. 10, with permission to the highest. President: The government will start an opinion on how to remove real estate prices...◯ I happen to be able to say what. A senator how to do so. You can do it by bill. The bill is very simple. It will appear here over the next few days at the council. I have no doubt about the good minds of tourists in this case. However, they still have the opportunity now that after some days of taking a decision because the middle class intends to make this synopsis meaningless by simply suggesting in the bill that from now on the indexes used for bindings both loans and loans are based on the index price of consumer prices without housing. Well, that's not that. Senator. That's all there is to be done, to agree with this. If this had been done three years ago, the change at the time, during the three years, would have saved homes in the country and smaller and larger companies an amazing amount. The other day, I was told that since the insurance commitment of a country's house is somewhere between 15◯17 billion, if I remember correctly, it may have been likely that if this step had been taken three years ago, it would have reduced the expenditure of homes by 180 billion at that time. For that amount, a new national hospital can be built twice. I say again, I don't doubt the good mind of shipping people. But I don't understand why people didn't take the step to the full. I think they're putting it out, the lowest possible denominator I'll ever say, in order to say, "We're doing our votes." That may well be so. Well, they weren't horrified. But there is in itself nothing complicated about making this change that I mentioned earlier. Iceland's economist responsible for measuring prices sends several indicators to the National Bank of Iceland each month. Since then, the late bank is drawn from the wrong conclusions, and it is very high in control. That's another story. But as we have seen at The Habitat, it is the agency that measures. On the other hand, it is those who are here who make decisions on the matter. They need courage. It's the only thing. It takes courage to live up to what they have been talking about for years. Evil was so when I was in the second category, or third, that he was a member of a administrative team who did not want to fulfill much clearer regulations then made in a government covenant, which was spoken of as stepping in the view that insurance would not be permanently borrowed. We just had bad luck with partners back then. Not everyone would be compelled to pick up again, to continue dancing with the same party. But then we came, at least in our own time, as then, to this company, more powerful regulations within the covenant of the government. Perhaps it is because men have seen their sexual relations and know that if the government covenant now made a strong statement, the exact same thing would happen again. Maybe they were avoiding it, I won't say anything about it. I just don't know. But the other is so different, and I say again: This is the smallest step possible in these days. I got over a tomb that shows the compliance of the consumer science and non-salvational-counts for a relatively long time, all over again, if I remember correctly, in 1989. That was quite a correlation between the consumption index and the index without housing teams until 2004. They really cut apart. And if you think that's the wrong time to pull the mortgage out of the index number, I'd like to say, as long as the situation is that it's 17 you're missing. apartments in this area alone do not constitute a reduction of housing in the country. We're on top of the pace, as we've seen here. Maybe something's going down a bit, maybe. What, though, is the result of the media showing that tourists do not move as rapidly and as rapidly as they once did? Wait, it hurts? We've already got a lot of balls to meet the 2.5 million people who come here. Even if that number does exist, can't we really live with it? I think so. I think we're very busy serving these people and making sure they don't destroy the country so that they're harmed or damaged by roads that don't get better; they don't look that way according to the government contract that's now being worked out. I don't think we're in any danger of taking a bigger and more bold step in this case than is done here. But I say again: Of course, you can understand that a group that has little to do with the program does not ride a fat horse from a government contract. That's an eye - eyed way. And in that light, this suggestion is understandable. But the middle party is working to make this suggestion unnecessary. He'll do it by presenting a bill, as I said before. It will reveal whether a good view of the movemen and other candidates, perhaps others in the government, is in a position to provide responsible, specific help to the homes of the country. We'll see. I would be delighted if this group of men joined the Central Party when it comes to the idea of reducing the debt and debt of their homes in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u140	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's groovy and supportive. I understood why. A senator like that is the mind of a man. A senator and his party are to follow it along with a bill and, like, a what? A senator says in his speech, to take the step all the way. Although I may not have been clear enough in my speech, I did feel that I was involved, and this is actually indicated by why. The financial and economic secretary to look at the pros and cons, that this index is not the only basis for calculating. This is primarily why we have the case in this system. We're gonna go for a second. A senator has often examined the economic issues in this matter, and there is one who has been concerned with this matter, the name Marinó G. Njálsson. I'm going to refer to a very good article from him in this case in which he says, by permission of the president: It is necessary to calculate the cost of housing in any way into the consumer calibre. It is calculated in both indicators, both of these coherences in Europe and here, but this difference is calculated. There, in this one team, inside the entire housing team, is a very complex calculation. And when we're talking about the economic interest cost of sacrifice in these calculations, I think it's very unlikely to make such a decision without the preconceiving opinion of the pros and cons. I'm gonna get a guess. It's for a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u141	Hv. President. Thank you. A senator very much for this answer. I know he's a cautious man by nature and he wants to go into the things he works and work well. I have great respect for Marinó G. Njálsson's opinions, and I have had some dealings with him on indicator numbers, etc. I've also been in considerable contact with a fine man named Dr. Ólafur Margeirsson, who is probably one of our leading economists for some time and had, for example. What a wonderful entrance to a meeting held in the University of University during the election held in the fall! There he took, for example. Iceland's financial policy with logic, a chip, nothing left, nothing. I have not understood him so that this operation, which I preach, in itself, will scuttle, what should I say, some constant model, or something like that. The other is so different that even if the staff is taken out of the index, even when they are taken out of the index, the Habitat will continue to recommend it within the table. We are still able to see what this operation will do, both short - term and long - term. As I said before, I think it is absolutely conclusive that while there are other tens of thousands of apartments missing here, just so that you can leave your parents and build a home and that older people can go to a smaller place, we don't have to worry about these things making a mess. I say: The time has come when loans do not carry all the risks in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u142	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir His Þorsteinn Sæmundsson answers. We're gonna go for a second. A senator has often discussed these matters. I cannot help but rejoice, knowing that such things as that we are basically in agreement with them. Another thing I'd like to mention, talking about pros and cons, and that's why. A member of the United States has been very impressed with interest points, and when making decisions, he has repeatedly criticized and maintained criticism of the interest decisions made by the European Commission of Money Policy, which, when making decisions, have been built. assessment of inflation and inflation, as measured by the index of consumer prices. There may be another side, but I came in earlier on how we counted our rent, 4,42 in these groups. We need to examine and make sure that we are not making such decisions on growth points, as assessed by the cost of an index price, and then establish a uniform consumption index in the calculation of the price-separated loans. These are the factors considered by the movers to be very important to go through and get an overview. That's why we're making it up in this way, and hopefully we'll be able to get to the country on these issues and make our point in indicator numbers. The agreement on all measures must matter. I have no clear question to ask you. A senator, however, would like to have our straw in the Treaty no less so that both the price insurance and the agreement between consumers are set aside.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-20-26.u143	V.E.G. President. You're right next door. A senator that I have maintained much criticism of Iceland's Secret Bank for his interest decisions for several years. I must be very sad to say that I have not had time to discuss it before here at the Council that the last decision of the bank was of exactly the same extent as before. However, it was at this meeting that I referred to, which was held in the University of college in the issue of election in the fall, that the predictions of inflation and the inflation of the Bank of Iceland were seen again six years in the past, are so far from the past. They're totally overrated. In 2015, when Iceland's Sidlabanki rose to control in two decisions following a bond deal of percentages or more, I called it a panic, and I'm still doing it. Some three years later, late bankers are beating on their chests. What have they done? They've brought the interest down to the same percentage she was before they started messing with her in June 2015, in front of themselves with an inflation forecast that's been completely out of harmony with reality. Of course, it may be that by snapping housing out of the index, you may need to make some adjustments in the legal environment that the bat operates on so that he can make his decisions on someone else and more stable and a better foundation than the present one. The person standing here is certainly alert and will follow through on that matter. If it's necessary, we will. Then we put here the bill to set up a law on how Iceland's Navy and money policy committee decides that interest will be changed. We do, we think it's necessary. And it's necessary. Everybody knows that. Now in the wake of collective labour agreements, what do people think would happen if there were to be a decrease in growth? I can point out one thing. [[The president calls.]] I think that if you saw that there was a decrease in interest of growth in the country, the requirements of the Common Association would even decrease, and this would make employers smarter and better equipped to live up to their collective agreements. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
