ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-16.u1	A respectable president. I would like to say at the end of the vote that I am grateful for the understanding that the council showed the need to respond promptly to a situation that actually arose at the decision of the Commission and revealed a serious lack of fish farming law in Iceland. I am well aware that this case is under intense pressure, not to hide it, but I thank you for the understanding that the senators show it was, and it is vital that we respond quickly. Those cases were on a dead end. The work that the Council has done today has opened up, and it is no longer a bottom line but an open street that allows us to build up in Iceland on the basis of a clear and good government.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-16.u2	Mr. President. Once again, we should place laws in an inadequate room, and when these practices were supported by the failing of fish farming laws, they must be fixed, obviously not being careful enough when the fish farm laws were given at the time, so we need to act in an inadequate fashion - and then what? When do we need to correct what we are doing today? This isn't the first time that happened, Mr. President. The extraordinary government system we've observed and have upset the lives of a lot of people is so I think we should let them teach us. Whether we sat at a council when the law was given or not, all of us should take it to heart. [[The president calls.]] It's such a mess, it was a mess, and we're supposed to do better.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-16.u3	Mr. President. I vote on the case to correct a legal defect should be given the unfavourable decision of the Environment and Resource Commission. I vote with a natural change that enables us to be moderate in Icelandic administrative affairs, which is the entire economy of interest and thus of Icelandic society. Then I'll vote for the Westfjords.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-16.u4	Mr. President. I thank all members of the Parliament for a good response to the unprecedented situation as salmon farms and Westland settlements, which are now following the loss of business licenses and licenses from the Environmental and Resource Commission. I'm not going to debate that conclusion, even though it's very controversial. However, it was found that this class's chief man must have some chance of dealing with such unprecedented situations and being moderate - minded and that he may have the possibility of making temporary leaves. I think it's true that this case has all been held, and it's supported by experts who came before the committee. I hope that this company, which will be expected to apply for temporary licences, will be able to obtain the necessary shelter and improve what is missing, in the opinion of the Commission.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-16.u5	A respectable president. I'm sitting by. It's not because I haven't studied it or because I don't feel it. This matter may be more evident to people who are very familiar with the subject, fish farming and the state of the south of the West, as well as to those who have been given more detailed presentations than I have had the option to do, especially those in charge. I just don't know how much some members of this room have received from presentations beyond what I've been able to get. Even when we discuss the matter for a very long time, and even when we have two or even three weeks of notice time, since we have different viewpoints and take visitors before a committee, reasoning things a little bit in a pita, we still make mistakes. When we do things this fast, I feel that there's a high probability of failure, no matter how well we do it. Time is important. It may well be that I would vote differently if I were in a different position and had the opportunity to learn more about the matter, such as if I were a board of directors. That may well be so. But under these circumstances, I'm with you. [[The president calls.]] That doesn't mean I'm against it. I just need more time than we've got today to do this kind of thing properly. I suggest most people sit by.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-16.u6	A respectable president. The historic day is at evening. There's been a lot of action here today in difficult situations. We are in a very narrow position, but we look forward to a successful outcome. We look forward to conclusions that we think most, I think, inevitable. We vote for changes in fish farming laws, No. 71/2008, i.e. Off-limit work permit. I give my opinion that there is a great demand that creation is even stronger for this young and growing industry, which many people have high expectations for in the near future, that we make all the demands, both environmental factors and technology. I say, "Yes."
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-16.u7	V.E.G. President. We vote for a change in fish farming law, No. 71/2008, temporary permit for ten months. I say yes in this vote to get a company run into salmon farms on the West, on the Tribals, and on Patrekfnard, back in progress. It depends on a man's work of 200 to300, as well as on a great quantity of value and value. This is not a case that can be discussed for a very long time. Therefore, we must respond promptly. And even though I'm in a position of government, I decide not to hit any political cones to draw attention to the fact that I'm not a member of the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-16.u8	A respectable president. Sometimes you feel like you're doing Iceland every day. You have a feeling about this matter, and maybe you're not very good at it. I understand that there is a great deal of trouble now in the West, and I realize that I will respond to it, but I find it difficult to accept the intervention involved. I mention, for example. The indication that this may not be the agreement. We have an obligation to do this to Icelandic nature, to us and to our future, to be careful as possible, especially in the case of projects that have a profound impact on our country. I have doubts about the treatment, and I don't want to vote for it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-16.u9	Mr. President. For example, I've mentioned that I don't like the treatment. However, we are in the condition of responding to a very bad situation. Of course, she should never have come up, could have been avoided by doing things better at the time. But it was. I hope this will be a reminder to us at the council to start doing things better than we have been doing. The key point is to reduce the number of mistakes, but at this point, it is important that we correct the problem and then start looking forward with the expected bill at the top. Secretary of the sea. Let's tighten the environmental protection factor to a considerable extent so that there will be no doubt about it in the future. Of course, I must support the matter, even though I have a serious disagreement with an evil case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-16.u10	President. I'm sitting by for the same reasons as my colleague, okay? paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson, but I'd like to say we're dealing with a mess. It's possible that salmon farms should never have been allowed in open water in this area, just over their heads. Based on the knowledge we have today, on the experience of other nations and on the knowledge that this could have an irreversible impact on the environment, the results would have been possible, well considered, that they could not get a license. But we've come to this place. I'd also like to mention that we're in an extremely amazing position when whole communities are lying on their side because certain people may be losing their license. There is something that we need to consider about the future, whether there is something we need to change.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-16.u11	A respectable president. I feel like we're in a tiny, surrealian version of a ◯Ordinary version of a sieve too large to fail. I saw in the EEA's bill on fish farms from 2008. It says, by permission of the president: It should always be taken into account that laws on environmental impact assessment, loyalty and pollution measures are met. In addition, the EEA adds that an additional EEA should be included: ...and a law on nature protection. In addition, the EEA points out that it is important that in the Member State's legislation it should be taken into account that factors under the laws of loyalty and pollution are taken into account so that there will not be double-traced. A respectable president. I think we're in a ▪twilight zone, excuse the sleigh, double act right now. We are in the most comprehensive version of this meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-16.u12	A respectable president. Congratulations, General, on your best response today. I don't care whether I am in a government or in a position of government, we achieved the goal of meeting a Western - based fracture risk in the southern part of the West, one of the potential dangers based on government regulations. We have wiped out the seabeds around the country with its exodus. There is really no reason to talk about what this should have been and how it should be or something like that, here we are, and it's up to us to change. It's about to bring in a new bill, and we'll show the rhythms we've got, and we'll do things properly and with style, but the main goal is that we've reached the joint we've been looking for. Hear, hear, Westerns. Whether we are in a government or a government position, we are on the side of the country in Floki.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-16.u13	Mr. President. In a few days, we have met many people of Western life, experts, law experts, professionals from councils and institutions, and we have quickly studied the matter. It's very simple. It's a legal point in the law. This is not about violations of environmental issues or that companies do not follow the standards and rules to follow from the environment, but it is the legal thing we're correcting with the bill. They're coming back from the ashhole after a long breakout in the West and there's a blonde, people moving back, experts coming back. I say, "Yes."
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-16.u14	Mr. President. Of course, it was unthinkable that the government and the Council would somehow react to the amazing situation in Western Europe, where hundreds of people would lose their jobs because of a ruling that took out a business license because of a mismanagement in the government and also built on very questionable grounds. I think that with the bill it's being sent the message that further efforts are being made to build fish in Iceland, but most important of all, with the bill that becomes law, it's being sent a message to people that the law and management are about people, their well-being and the opportunity to survive. The Senator says yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-16.u15	A respectable president. I'm fully aware of the importance of this situation. However, this does not change the fact that time has been short. I understand that the government needs to react this way, and I appreciate that the members of the administrative committee have to vote as they do. I respect that. It doesn't change that I need more than one day myself, especially with all the questions that have been raised today, to vote with a bill where questions are still left with me, to my mind. I'd still like to see the reviews and talk to the members of the committee. I'd still like to read Internal Affairs. No matter how serious the problem we are trying to solve, the problem still exists. I would also like to point out that in a talk. A senator who spoke before me realizes that it is also about what people think about fish farms. This is evident from a talk given earlier. Senator. I think it is very much how much this is a big issue beyond the specific legal adjustments we are making. [[The president calls.]] That supports what I have been saying about our lack of time. I'm embarrassed with respect to those who vote with the bill.
