ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u1	The President has received letters from 4th. Smoke. s., Thorhildi Ævarsdóttir Asvardsdóttir, and 1 0th. South, Smári Mccarthy, that they won't be able to attend a meeting in the near future. Today, therefore, at the General Assembly for the 1st Presidency of Pirata, the South University of Reykjavík, Olga Margrét Cilia, and the 1st President of Pirata, the District, Eymarsdóttir Eymarsdottir. Olga Margrét Cilia and Álfheiður Eymarsdóttir Eymarsdóttir have once sat at the General Assembly and are welcome back to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u2	Borist has received a letter from a foreign minister asking for every request to give a written answer to an application. 489, on the behalf of the executives, from Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, and on the threshing floor. 464, on the development and humanitarian aid, from the Brondi Haraldsdóttir. Borist has two letters from the financial and economic secretary asking for every request to give written answers to the inquiries on the deck. 644, about electrical change, from Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, and on a threshing floor. 647, about carbon bills, and counter measures against carbon emissions, from Vilhjálmur Árnason. Borist has received a letter from a marine economist and agri-gri-gri-gri-gritary minister asking for a written answer. 336, on food production in Iceland, from Pétursson Ingi. Finally, a letter has been received from the travel, industrial, and innovation secretary where request is made to provide written answers to panel query. 367, for a battery of electric cars, from the Guðmundur of Ingi, Kristinsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u3	To answer, Prime Minister, Minister of Health, Social Affairs and Equal Affairs, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Ministers of Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u4	Mr. President. As we know, the budget will be discussed later this week. There is something else in it, many fine things, and things that are not quite right. We heard a lot of talk about the transportation program during the last weekend. It is clear that the financial program does not make investment in the road. As we look at the increase in traffic over the next five years and then out into the road, it is clear that the gap between these intervals will only increase, so that the relative contribution to road transport will be reduced. This is the cold reality. I'd like to review it as the highest. The prime minister foretold his last election at a national meeting. There she said that artificial solutions, as she put it, were used in health and transportation. She said that individuals who discussed private work and payment are only doing so because they did not trust in the building up of the wood in an appropriate way. Now I must ask the highest. Prime Minister, in view of the highest words. To speed up the road, a secretary of transportation to look at other means, to pay for: Has this been discussed within the government? Will Prime Ministers support the transport secretary's efforts in the process of reimbursement and in the stream of transport? Will there be artificial solutions in the mind of a prime minister, or is she willing to support a transport minister in searching for any means, including payment to speed up the road?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u5	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. It's good to have an opportunity to talk about transportation, because I'm pretty sure that everyone will go. In recent years, some members of this hall have heard a lot of discussions, but especially in recent years, since the introduction of investment has been minimal in recent years. After transport contributions were increased by 10% in 2018's budget, financial programs are proposed to carry out a special campaign for transport in 2019◯2021 that will be financed by financial contributions. It's exactly like I said to film at this time as well. A senator would point to, if not in the speech that took place. A senator refers to the need to use property income, including from financial companies, to infrastructure monotonous structures, as it would be convenient for transportation. The budget for transport development will be 124 billion dollars. during the planned period, which is considerably higher than what we have seen in the past. That's important. It is vital that we keep our eyes on the real investment in transportation. But I agree with what. A senator and a chief. Secretary of transportation that it does not solve all the problems. Of course, we have tremendously added stress. As I have noted, in recent years investments in infrastructure have been kept to a minimum in historical detail. V.E.G. A minister has said that he is prepared to consider reimbursement in ways that might lead to other options. That certainly is in harmony with what we have seen done in the past. It was to make a film at the time of the Haggard tunnel. This was supported by a second way of doing things. I haven't shut down that kind of pay, ever. On the other hand, I also want to point out, and I think it's important for the General to consider that we need to reconsider how we're going to build the road system from the payment we have. Now we have a charge on gasoline, a carbon charge. The financial agenda has gone up, but hopefully we'll see such energy exchange in recent years that we may need to revise all transport expenditures, such as other countries have made and watch them make more driving. [[The president calls.]] That discussion must begin at the scene of the Generals.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u6	Mr. President. I agree that there are new ways of making a living, not just in the capital area, but wide, around the country to be built. It is important that we take that assignment. But I'm glad I think it's the best. The prime minister has answered my question earlier, so she has fallen away from her talk just before the election. Then she even spoke. ... ofthebeautifuls of the Independence Party. I can't read it any better than the fact that left greens have become an excellent satellite with that class, considering the attitude of transportation currency. The most important thing is that we face reality. That's what I think it is. The secretary of transportation is doing this afternoon. So did his predecessor in the ministry. It needs more funding, and it does not mean that we have to ignore the fact that we have to look for all ways. The Budget Plan makes a complete contribution to us, who, in fact, have built. will drive the country to avoid investing enough on roads. [[The president calls.]] Everything needs to be searched. That's why I'm so happy to hear that. The prime minister is ready to take us on that route.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u7	Mr. President. Hv. A senator can have a good time at some of these things and pretend that this is just passing away from his earlier vision. Of course not.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u8	Why?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u9	The strategy adopted in 2016 was not funded. The difference between this budget and the rest. A senator noted that at his time, the transport program was now adopted at the 2016 Parliament. That's the difference. That's what I was referring to. That is all we need to see how we can finance the infrastructure and follow what the Council has agreed to and has not been done until now, unfortunately. I'm going to remind you to the highest. The president who was a financial minister who has been a member of this class for a long time was the one standing among the others for curing in the Hafjörður tunnel with exactly the argument I went over here. We've never excluded currency if there's any other means we can do it. On the other hand, we have raised serious doubts about setting a legal gate to form around the capital area, one of the ideas that have been discussed. Then I want to reiterate what I said earlier, that it's our job here, the Lawgiver, to cross the whole currency system. I'm glad to hear it. A senator is prepared to be taken into account because we need to take into account energy exchanges and changes in approach when it comes to how we drive the transport system, which we do today with the fuel tax. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u10	Mr. President. 13 midwives have quit working at a land hospital, and still others are under furs and thinking their own way of walking. This is a reason for dissatisfaction with remuneration and other factors, both in the situation and in the job load and in the non-employment cases in 2015. Rather than going to strike, midwives will choose other jobs, and that is a bad situation. This is serious news, now that the summer lies ahead for what most children in Iceland are born, not less than a thousand, summer permits are rampant, and it is difficult to secure a husband even though a general year's journey was. Understandably, such a situation causes confusion and insecurity among prospective mothers and their families. It is not to be expected that the attitude displayed by midwives will encourage the newcomer. According to unrealistic predictions, as far as half of the class will retire within the next ten years. Thus, each work force of that class is of great value. I'm asking the highest. Healthcare minister whether or not she considers the work and dress environment acceptable and normal for six years of university education and a high degree of expertise and whether it will be handled by the government, how it will be done, and whether any equipment is available in the absence of agreement.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u11	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. If I start, answer it as long as possible. A senator raised his questions about the work and dress environment of this profession, I believe that the work of midwives in pay and social respect would be appreciated. I have always felt that the work and the work of midwives was especially important. This is a group of women who spend an enormously precious and important time in their lives, and I think it should be appreciated. Hv. One senator noted that the situation that has developed may result in a disturbance in families. I have been assured by the director of the Land Hospital that no security is being disturbed at the Land Hospital, while I associate fully with the light - headed workplace. Thus, there is no need to do so, neither with what. A senator, or anyone else, raising a fear or insecurity of parents. I have used myself in this case through the director of the Land Hospital to try to do what is possible there to improve the work environment and the possible monitoring environment of this important class. This has been done, and it has been played into today's bracing negotiations. I hope it will help resolve this delicate dispute. As expected citizens, I hope this meeting will be effective on April 16th.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u12	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for clear and excellent answers. To obtain the education of a midwife, a person needs to complete a four - year university education in a nurse. It is preferable that a person may have several years of experience in his field before two years of photo study. It is a full study, and for some years it has been unpaid. If you look at the median pay of a job nurse, you can assume that this additional study will include a nurse of at least 12 million. K. Remuneration during study periods, with little or no financial value. There is only one university profession that meets as much education as midwives in order to be able to serve as a professional six - year university student. However, midwives at the seventh base are among 24 BHM members at the pay period. I'm expecting, the highest. Ministers, to the study arrangement and to the attitude that these have attracted to young people? Is it not a reason for us to respond quickly and to change our outlook and how we want it to be? A minister prefers to do that?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u13	President. As noted in this discussion, midwives have an unusual situation in which they are members of another class when they begin their work as midwives, which they were as nurses. It creates an unusual situation compared to other classes as well. A senator mentions. It is a decision made by midwives in their environment, to be in a special trade union with BHM member society, which is a special trade union of nurses. It is not a government assignment to have opinions about such an arrangement. It is the workforce's job, in this case, the midwives themselves, the way they enter unions. But their conclusion at one time was to do this, and that is not a comment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u14	President. This morning, every senator received a letter from children's parents in the child - welfare system. The letter describes a long march by parents who have struggled to keep their child alive. It describes a systematic neglect of children with an addiction problem. Their story is tragic, but unfortunately it is not unique. Many parents are in the same position but are afraid to express themselves out of fear that their children may be harmed. In an announcement from the Ministry of Health last week, it was reported to the highest level. Department of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities would have planned action to deal with emergency problems and long-term action. Among other things, experiences for young people who have been treated but have not been able to cope with their problems were reported. There would be a provision for a specialised home maintenance facility where follow-up treatment and adjustment support would be applied to society. This morning's director's interview shows that funding for a new home is being financed and that the household preparation is moving rapidly but may not be easy to start a new treatment. It is also stated that only two or three children will be included at first. Now, the situation in which we live is that children and youths with addictions need to remain in emergency care for a considerable period of time because of a lack of other resources, in rooms that have been described as prisoners. Children who have no access to options and who end up in the street often need to be turned away. As noted in the news this morning, 20 children have had to be turned away from emergency care because of lack of space. President. This condition can simply be described as an emergency. Now I understand that a new home is ready for use. So I ask the highest. Minister: What causes the delay? Why is the plan difficult to establish? Is it true that there are no funding for the project? When can it be expected that a new e - mail home will be implemented so that children and youths with addictions do not have to stay in the same place as inmates or that they are simply dismissed?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u15	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator and the head of the welfare committee for this inquiry, and she agrees with her comments that the news of this demands that we quickly intervene as a community. I've said that a community that doesn't react to this is a very irresponsible society. The situation is that we've been working together with Children's Health Services and Child Welfare Committees to develop resources in which individuals who have spent a long time in the system are being helped to adjust to their previous lives. It's a test project that would be cooperated with both the state and the community. It's just been working on it. This was presented in the government on Friday. What men are working on now in those words is setting aside the source of capital. It will come from both the money available to the Children's Institutes and the Ministry and the presence of the local community. Maybe they'll need extra funding in there. I've said it officially, that there will be a benefit of this therapy within two weeks. This was done after a government meeting Friday. This has been done in a very close partnership between these parties. I've had a very good relationship with these fine parents who sent mail to all the senators and the media this morning, meeting with them, and having a good relationship with others with children who have similar problems. This is a problem we have to deal with as a community. We must do so quickly. This is what's going to happen right now in the next two weeks. Then we are going to go to the maping on whether or not more appropriate measures are needed for children in this crisis. There's been talk of dating, gender analysis, etc. This will be considered in the next two months, with suggestions on how to do so. It will also be employed in very close cooperation with Children's Institutes of Children, Child Welfare and the Onbog children, an organization of parents with children who have a terrible addiction problem. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u16	President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. I'm glad these matters are under way. I trust the Minister with that assignment. I'm worried. The problem, very important to the future, is to be mapped, but now is a medical emergency. What's happening now, i.e. how these kids are treated can create problems far into the future. We have to stop it if it's possible. And if the will is there, it can be done. Some kids are being dismissed by tens of them who have no access to any options, we're talking about the lives of kids who are in danger, and I'm asking the top. In view of this enormously cumulative problem, the minister of these two to three sections includes the problem? I'd also like to ask if the highest. A minister has other plans to respond to this crisis and in what way. That does not mean saying - and why within two weeks? I understand the house is ready. If it has been financed, what causes it not to be used immediately? That's not enough, two to three. What about all the other kids who don't get in there? [[The president calls.]] What are we gonna do with them?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u17	A respectable president. The Council is working very closely with the relevant partners. Recently, workers' interviews and other activities have been used to trigger these measures. Continued mapping and work must, of course, be agreed with these partners. It is totally clear by the social minister and also conducted in the government on Friday when it was discussed that it is a top priority whether it is the parents, the parents' organization, or the others involved, including the police and the fine policeman, Guðmundur Fylkisson, who are looking for these children when they are lost, that they have access to ministers at any time of the day. We're working on this. It will ensure that sufficient measures will be made for these children when necessary. It can't happen again, and can't happen again, what happened here during the weekend, that children are saved in prison rooms because of failure. [[The president calls.]] Therefore, we are doing all we can to make this new arrangement come true. It'll be late in two weeks. That's what I've said.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u18	V.E.G. President. The official asked the four prime minister of the Independence Party in his day about possible operations to get a connection between Airbnb's operation in the capital area and Iceland. The answers were humble, and little has happened. I know that a businessman has made some progress in trying to obtain more of these companies, and some dozens have been registered by the three thousand in Reykjavík alone. This lack of registration results in the failure of any public fees, and competition with reimbursers is compromised. What's also serious is that at a meeting held in the city of Reykjavík the other day, a police officer who was there felt that an Airbb building in Reykjavík is one of the main sites of prostitution and mansalis in Reykjavík. In this context, I have to ask the highest. Whether she intends to make this operation registered in order to be safe, to pay public fees, not to become a crime scene, and not to be in illegal competition or competition, which differs from others in this sector. I suggested in my time to the minister of the Independence Party that I have discussed this matter with the police that the police would simply get some kind of money to knock on their door and ask for registration. I'm almost sure it would be very quick to sweep this case up like that. Now I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: What will the minister do?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u19	A respectable president. Hv. A senator believes that this activity, called homemaking, needs to be established. Like other functions, it is certainly not immune to the criticism that can be provided for all registrations and tax returns. However, when it arrives, it has exactly the same exact check profile as that of other national activities, e.g. to monitor the paying and the paying of taxes. The work such a person hears is a minister of a different kind than the one standing here, you see. Travel minister, but the surveillance and registration have been under the supervision of the businessman in the capital area. He has been assigned specifically to keep track of the registration and license forces in this regard. I think that now could be the reason, after a few losss by which the businessman of the capital area has had this role, to weigh and weigh whether this surveillance is better available elsewhere, closer to a crime scene, as it were, e.g. for the rural population. The number of registrations in this area has now been reduced. I think it did perfectly well, but the nature of the operation is like that, you just have to face it, that it's hard to get everyone registered at any given time. I think there are many hot tubs that are broken, but there are no plans on the part of the Minister of Justice in terms of the registration.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u20	V.E.G. President. I've already asked the former secretary of travel these questions. I received the same answers: No, it's for another minister, and the check is for the subgroup minister of justice. Yes, it is true that it is reversed. That is why it must be done in a responsible and effective way. It's all set-up, and it says a paper with the law that was changed at its time, 2014 or whatever it was, that a businessman can seek the help of a police officer in this surveillance. Police need that kind of surveillance. Although several dozens of these units are currently recorded, several thousand advisers do not pay taxes and duties here and now are the growth of criminal activity. It has to simply stop, and that's why I'm disappointed to hear the minister say, "We're gonna wait a few months. We've spent four years now since I painted it. [[The president calls.]] For four years, these companies have managed to cheat on taxes and are now on top of the financial burden of crime. [[The president calls.]] It's got to stop.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u21	A respectable president. My speech may have been blurred. I was just saying that we now have the experience in several losses of the county's surveillance and registration. I think it might be considered that there will be a review of whether this monitoring and registration will be improved by e.g. The rural areas with extensive monitoring roles in various areas. Perhaps there would be some additive effect if we were to arrange for these accommodations to be held in the countryside. I think we're gonna do what. A senator can agree that it is necessary to ensure that the surveillance is as practical as possible and therefore place the most additive effect on other activities. I insist, however, that the activities of these beds depend on laws and regulations that are under the highest order. Secretary of travel. The police, of course, are monitoring these activities, and so far they have. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u22	A respectable president. 1st January. it was available to apply for half a pension from a pension fund and half a pension from the government insurance agency. In most cases we would welcome such things, but in the case of this matter, I am not satisfied because there's still one more trap, a dollar apiece. If the individual is a invalid person who has been in a low labour market, a woman with little rights in a pension fund or other low-payers, who does not reach 119,742k. He can't get anything, not a cent. They just say, "No, you don't get to go into the system. But if another gets a crown more, what will he get out of this system? Yeah, if he goes to 120,000 bucks. He'll get $150,000. Government, $100,000. By taxes. How will we reason this out? Even more ugly is the fact that high - paying men, such as senators, ministers, and others who have so far taken 533,000 cases, have now been opened. And out of the pension fund, and have not received anything from the state's insurance agency, receive payment from it. If they take half the money from the government insurance agency, half from the pension fund, what do they get? 150,000. Even if they have 900,000. From a pension fund and 900,000 dollars. ... inpay. I ask, "How on earth does this mean that it's being cut off by a chain of disability pensioners? " Was this a mistake, or was being opened up to selected ones, such as members of Congress and other high - paying workers, so that they could obtain 100,000 dollars. a gift from a state fund? It was said at one time that those who were rich should not be opened to the pension fund and the government's insurance agency, especially her.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u23	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry. I agree with what. In his opening statement, a senator who said that in most cases such news should be welcomed but then made fine it was perhaps creating some sort of trap, which he then applied in his own case. I'd like to say here that on the way is a matter, if it's not arrived at the council, it's on the way, to make changes in this and prevent the cracks that there is formed. A senator came in. The government has made it clear on its policy list to meet the subsidies of the lowest income. This is simply a change that needs to be made to the factors. A senator came in. About a penny in front of a buck or two. A senator came only on the inside, I'll let me take it here at the same time, has shown that the government is setting up a work start, which has been run, but is officially starting and is waiting for the final requests of the staff to come to the job, aimed at making changes to the social security system when it comes to microenergy pensioners. It is the same with the exception of a cent to one of the crowns. It is important that this work can begin as early as possible so that, hopefully, in a short period of time, we can make changes that are subject to repealing a dollar to a decrease and improving the quality of biofuels. It is part of the work that lies ahead, and I have reported it, and the government leaders have also reported publicly.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u24	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. In this case too, a small amount of household input from microfowl and the other items he came in to meet the loss of a dollar is reduced. Then I'm just gonna believe it. It is now 15 months since sensibilities received a cent across from a pet. That's why I don't think it's 15 months of disability. Will a secretary arrange for this to be restored? There have been many cases of reinstatement by senators and others, but the desperate have never been corrected. I'm just gonna demand that he sees to it that when it's taken off, it's like a quarter of a dollar when it's taken off.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u25	A respectable president. Hv. A senator said that these failings had been removed from older citizens 18 months ago. It's really important that we get on our way, I want to reiterate it, and I want to put power in the kind of work that allows us to reevaluate our social security system to micro-energy pensioners. I can say that now in the spring and summer and the next fall it is estimated that the Ministry will put all its power into the case that attracts micro-energy pensioners, who are responsible for improving their terms, which are designed to reevaluate the social security system on the basis of implementing services and assessments. ... withouta centacity against a dollar's decrease. All the work there, which dates will be, any amount, where lines will be drawn, is something that will appear in the current job beginning. It's very difficult to perform some particular things here, unless I say, "It's a full political wish to get them started and it's full of political wish to come out of it a positive result for micro-energy pensioners and that their terms will be improved. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u26	V.E.G. President. In 2012 a declaration of will was signed by the then health minister and the president of the town government of Stykkistole on the union of nursing and a nursing home at the Stykisholm Hospital under the same roof as the St. Francisks Hospital. A cost plan was set up at that time to 1.3 billion. At that point 35 m2 was the space later converted to 27 m2. A letter came from a financial agency that would be taken off the board because the cost was too high for a number of people and so on. At that time, there was a problem in the government box. After the new town government took 2014, the case was restored to the Ministry and re-evaluated in these spaces and on the basis that 27 m2 would be successful. So this will be 18 nurses and two living quarters. Another cost plan was set up. It decreased by half and accounts for about 630,650 million today. The case is on the table of the health minister. [[The president calls.]] One hundred million were in 2016. They will not be used because of the revised laws on public financial matters. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking you, can a minister tell you where this case is today?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u27	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. It's a pleasure to be able to answer that I've had more discussions than just a few. Senator on this very matter, both Mayor Lelands Ástmar Hannesson of Stykisholmi and Mayor Sturla Böðvarsson. It is, as the senator points out, short - range cases of very long - range duration, just this approach actually woke up in 2012, if I recall correctly. It is a pleasure to tell you that this is being done in a new financial program, as it is submitted to the council. I expect the funding needed to change these spaces, i.e. The doctors, in turn, will be able to attack the nursing center and will be able to go to the full in 2020 and then 2021. The matter should be concluded so that the rest can be started immediately because the rest will be prepared in a financial programme. It is a pleasure to be able to respond in a decisive way to this sort of inquiry, but it may have been a well - thought - out case that shows respect for both the home and the community, but it is no less appropriate to match the situation of those in need of nurses and other health - care professionals in the area.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u28	V.E.G. President. I thank the Minister for this answer. It is a pleasure to know that this is the case. Are we talking about starting work this year, in the coming autumn? I was looking for financial programs but could not see anything specifically marked on this project, but it is a joy if so. As the minister mentioned, this case has been under way since 2012. Older citizens living in Stykisholmi live in 1,2 m2, which is not available in mice and is not available for humans. So it is a joy to hear that the matter has begun. It's been a long, long walk, and thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u29	A respectable president. Hv. This amount of money is likely to be marked by the Western Institute of Health, which is actually the hospital part, but as a matter of course. A senator points out that the funds that have been earmarked to the nursing home or nurses are actually for provision, but the funds could not be started until the other lay in place where this has been linked. The senator went over to ask. According to my understanding, then, there is no basis for implementing any further implementation in this year or early in the following, provided that the Council will issue a financial plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u30	Mr. President. Ever since the start of the work of so - called small loan companies in 2010, they and their creditors have occasionally contributed to public discussions. The credit rights of small loan companies are considered to be unscrupulous examples of yokes, and many of their methods seem to show wrongdoing and even pros, such as when laws were handled by covering superheated interest laws on the electronics. There are also many cases where small loans are directed toward community groups that live with lax economics and young people. Recent information from the office of the credit agent confirms this and makes it clear that it is especially young, income - poor people who are taking the loans and who are experiencing such financial problems because they are forced to seek the assistance of their office in solving their problems. The business of small loan companies is to lend short - term money and are hugely high. Thus, each year's interest in name can be picked up by hundreds of percent. In accordance with local laws, such growth is illegal, but it is being managed by calling it a loan cost, and various other overkills are used to raise the cost of loans beyond what is permitted. The consumer organizations have held to the harsh and direct criticism of small loan companies because of their business practices. In 2016, the Nettos'Office laid tickets to three small loan companies because of illegal high - cost loans. Furthermore, Netothal laid 10 million dollars. K. The administrative ticket of the small loan company E-content plus 500,000 bucks. a day's fine in July 2017, where the company had failed to comment on changing its ways. All of the above consumer decision decisions have been confirmed by the consumer Commission, but it is not available to determine whether prior fines have been paid. It is understood that the very small loan companies that are making the most of them at this time have a domestic residence abroad and that there is a workforce. The ownership of these enterprises is not yet available. The exchange of small loan companies with creditors takes place on the Internet and through phone, so they are not local. Their access is enormous, and constant text messages are sent to those who have ever been registered to them and all kinds of offers worth paying off are pointed to, as no problem in borrowing for them. Small loan companies are part of the global transitions now taking place in a financial market with the development of smart tools and a variety of online digital technologies. This new financial technology, FinTech, develops rapidly and in some cases faster than the relevant legislation. Perhaps this is the case with the lawgiver, who has failed sufficiently and firmly to make changes in this area. As an example, small loan companies do not share in financing the activities of the agent of debt, even though there are financial companies and credit institutions, apartment loans, pension funds, and insurance companies that run the cost of that office. Since small loans have become a major reason why people go to an agent of debt, they will no doubt wonder that the companies doing the small loan work should not be among those who finance the office. News of the consequences of the activities of small loan companies must also give us reason to consider whether the regulations of their activities and rights of consumers in this area may be indiscriminate and therefore reasons for improving the faults that may be of the law and regulations that concern small loan companies and their customers. A respectable president. In view of what I have already traced to the position and impact of small loans in the Icelandic financial market, there are several questions I would like to address to the highest level. Travel, industrial and innovation ministers. These are: What's the top count? Minister, in view of criticism of the activities of small loan companies and their penalties for violation of rules, need to be expedient by the attorney? Tells you the highest. Minister right to oblige the small loan companies to support the costs of the office of the agent's office in debt in the same way as other financial companies? Tells you the highest. A minister has reason to put in more detailed conditions than is now authorized for operating a small loan company? Tells you the highest. Minister for the business of small loan companies should be subject to SEC monitoring? - I missed a chance this morning to ask the F.A.P. What would it feel like when they got there at the branch office? If considered at the highest rate. Ministers are desirable to evaluate the activities of small loan companies and their impact on their business groups in terms of the fact that small loans have taken place in this country since 2010, so that there has been considerable experience? It's the highest. The minister knows whether any government or day fines laid on small loan companies in recent years have been paid?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u31	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator for requesting a special discussion on the small loan companies and their working environment. Since these cases have been in the dough lately, it is appropriate that the Council take them on a special discussion. I will answer this six questions as a matter of course. A senator has submitted. In this regard, the first question to ask as to what needs to be done on behalf of the legislator is, in view of the criticism of small loan companies, it should be noted that by law No. 33/2013, on a consumer loan, was determined to pay a small loan under consumer loan legislation. Their sentence contained a significant discussion of a small loan company and was responded by enforcing specific regulations in the 26th chapter of the Law. directly involved in small loans, making maximum costs for consumer loans. In spite of this, small loan companies have found ways to avoid this law on high costs. One such case was addressed to the city of Reykjavík, which concluded that a certain currency of a small loan company, called a fast charge, was illegal. It is now a matter of similar damage to the courts and of waiting for its conclusions. The 2013 consumer loan Act covers the Neighbour Bureau's surveillance and a set of options for small loans. Some small loan company operates entirely today within the framework set and important to keep in mind by consumer loans. Other small loan companies have been advised to continue their operations despite the mastery of the Neytend Office. It is not possible to stop such an enterprise by leaving that license because the legislation does not assume that the activities of the Marketing Authorisation are responsible. From my opinion on consumer protection, the current situation in which small loan companies' regulations are not at best and there is reason to consider the matter further. As to what can be done for improvement by the legislature, there are several ways that can be considered, including ... todistinguish the operation, define small loan companies as financial companies, and thus bring them under the SEC, increase the demand for information related to them, and so on. Within my Ministry, it is now beginning to oversee all aspects of small loans, define the concept of small loans that have not been done, detect the status of small loan companies, and influence on Icelandic financial markets as well as on consumers. I will next order a group of workers who will be assigned to make a comprehensive assessment of the activities of small loan companies and offer suggestions for the regular work of small loan companies. Regarding the question 2 regarding the participation of small loan companies to support the costs of the agent's business, I rightly believe that there will also be a closer look at and a review of this type of work I've been doing, while suggesting that the payment of the expenses of the agent's business is being heard under the welfare department and that such a change should be considered in consultation with that Ministry. Questions 3, 4 and 5. Similarly, a senator will be taken into this work, which I think is important for us to follow the experience of putting these laws into practice and how it has worked out. I just want to get more perspective on this before we have some major changes in the environment. Regarding the last question on whether a minister is aware of whether a government or a day's fine committed to a small loan company in recent years has been paid, the answer is that the Nite Owl makes decisions on the application of government and day guilty under consumer loans. This is followed by a standard collection at the customs manager. According to the customs manager's records, the collection of such administrative and day-to-day fines is followed in the same way as is generally reported by the customs manager. This is the information the Ministry received. Most of the small loan companies where consumers' repairs have come to collect at the customs manager are now under bankruptcy. I'd like to finally mention that we're going beyond the European legislation that requires it. This does not mean that we can go further, but we can only keep it in mind. Of course, this reflects how we view our work in a certain way, i.e. that it is not like any other activity. What I find important, and then we'll talk here and we'll probably talk about in this group, simply because we're looking at the situation the way it is. We want to achieve some goals, we want to change some things. Then there are various ways to do this, and we simply need to look to the most likely way in which we can succeed. Part of it is e.g. It's a financial lock. Which is more likely to produce results; to make the rules more rigid or to get a little more involved in financiallocks, and to do so is not some temporary effort but, rather, more so, through parenting, schooling, and other activities? That's what we need to look to. Of course, the law has one tool to do this and the penalty. If the penalty does not work, of course, we are under obligation to consider it. But if we all agree to want to fix some situations, I just say we should look at the situation and discuss the most likely way of success.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u32	A respectable president. I thank you for this discussion about growing problems in Icelandic society as a matter of course. Harðardóttir One way is by taking the initiative to discuss the matter with you. A financial and business committee, which led to the call for a memo from the highest level. consumer minister on handling the problem. The memo delivered to the Commission last March 5 states that the Ministry of prose and innovation started working on all the factors involved in small loans. Do not examine what your neighbors are doing and then decide the rest. The answers may be more clear. A memo from the credit agent says that in the age group between 18 and 29 years, 70% of those who went to the office had a small loan in 2017, but the ratio was 62% in 2016 and the number of applicants will be fewer. The average small loans per application were less than 600 yards. K. In 2017, there are over 400 of you. K. 2016. Thus, small loans are becoming more and more of a young person's debt problem. We know what the situation is. Hv. The Neighbour D.C. Committee is now waiting for a music memo on the rules of consumer loans that they feel the need to change and in what way. It is wish that at this assembly, there will be agreements about this at any moment. The Economic and Business Committee to provide a pan-European bill that will address the problem and promote consumer protection against these so-called small loans, which, however, are a right-to-do.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u33	V.E.G. President. The small loan business that she is fired in Iceland today is nothing but a disturbance that needs some sort of elimination. The customers are largely people who may not have other houses to protect on loans. When the first loan is taken because of the supergroves and the small loans offered, it is floundering and caught in a trap. I'd like to thank you especially for bringing this case into the councilroom. I sat at a council in 2013 when a legal adjustment was made. I think we senators have to face the fact that this change was not enough to bring about a connection with this operation. Hence, there is no waiting for work to be started right now in order to get close to this activity and make the site of the work so tight that it falls off. It's amazing in itself, and you have to admit that you've been involved in bringing the transformation here against 2013 without having to do the operation. It's because of an incredible lapsus. If the Minister intends to change the work environment of these enterprises, I'm going to give her support to that project and encourage it to implement the first thing in order to establish a link between these activities.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u34	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you for saying something, okay? paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, for bringing this up on schedule, the business of small loan companies. It is necessary to discuss it here and, in fact, has been in the lump many times since the establishment of these enterprises in 2010. We simply need to draw closer to these activities than to what? These companies have so far ignored the rules and limits they have been placed to this point. Business practices have always been controversial, and companies have been criticized for business practices, loans, high loan costs, marketing costs, and they have completely avoided any instructions made or controlled fines, due to day - to - day fines. These companies are not traditional credit institutions, and in general they are small sums of money. In fact, there are no borrowers requirements or borrowers in the condition of borrowing, often those who are not borrowed elsewhere. In 2013 an effort was made to get a hold of this by placing a roof at this expense and making sure that these companies could not charge just about anything. Since then, it has been decided by the Nite Owl, which supervises this operation but this company has virtually completely ignored them, changed loans, I can, e.g. Name the fact that they have taken a quick charge to electronic books, etc. [[The president calls.]] It is clear that here we must fully reevaluate the requirements of this operation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u35	A respectable president. First, I'm going to try to quote a word directly. paritaprevir Sourstein's Sæmundsson, and he agrees with him, who earlier said that a small loan operation like it shows up in Iceland today was nothing but bad. I wholeheartedly agree with this, but the problem is clearly that it is not everyone's opinion, not their opinion of those who take those loans. V.E.G. A minister went into financiallocks only and raised the interesting but not a new question about whether he would work better at the problem, increase financiallocks, or law. I'll keep them both. I think there's a lack of financial lock in Iceland, and I think, for a long time, it's a rather serious problem we're supposed to solve, and I think we can solve it. However, I think it also takes laws and other rules to control the financial resources that directly apply either people's ignorance or their circumstances. It has been suggested to the Internet that there are people who do not need to hear anything about some financial lock, that is just the situation in their lives that they need these loans. Now I am not going to judge financial matters for anyone who thinks he needs it. I would quickly say: " No, you never need such loans. These are never the loans you're supposed to take, of course, to be aware that I don't know personal financial matters of any person who thinks of saying something like this. On the other hand, if the situation is such that people are in such a position, and there are people in that position, they feel that they need the received loans, these loans are still bad. They are affecting the interests of the same people. We are to set laws, and the most obvious thing I think, indeed, after just a few conversations with experts who know the matter better than I do overall, these companies should at least be authorized. I haven't heard any evidence against it so far. [[The president calls.]] I'm rather surprised that they're not already, if I'm supposed to say exactly what it is, and that's a step that we should take right away without considering the matter much rather, though there are other things to consider in context as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u36	A respectable president. I appreciate the advisor, huh? paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir for bringing up this novel and novelty subject, which surely is a small loan. The loans have been following the Human Being for a long time. They make good use of people who have little materially or who have become addicted to some addiction and who are drawn to borrowing it. They are not the people who use their sad stories in the media when they are in debt. The ad's like this: I'm giving you a small loan in one green. It's a yo-yo job. I'm here with a paper cut from 1985 on loanlenders, like these companies, like, look like, you know, a security guard. I ask, are the citizens of the country no longer guards like 30 years ago? Are they no longer protected from loans? I don't think the operation of small loan companies will be authorized and placed under UNEP surveillance. I think it's normal. I'm also surprised to hear, as shown in the discussion how much of the home debt is due to small loans, how much it's grown. The problem may grow without us fully realizing how large it is. That's why I think it's urgent to handle this matter very quickly. The work of these companies could rightly be called pirate activity. We need to secure the rights protection they need from the government, and I want to say: A consumer agency has committed fines to several such companies, but there is no question whether they have been paid. I ask: Have these government fines been paid? Have they been collected? [[The president calls.]] Do you know the scope of the activities of these enterprises?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u37	Mr. President. First, I want to thank you for this important discussion. But I think it's always good to remember that no matter how bad we are with any particular activity, this is one form of loan work. The basis for access to capitalism - we've seen it through the years that lack of financial resources eventually seems to lead to some kind of activity as this one. We saw it, for example. that when the business banks were severely confined to loans through the surface of grassery, such as this would be the case. I think we need to be careful that as we approach the issue of permit activities like this, which I agree with, I believe, of course, this should be a permit and monitoring procedure like any other, we will not just push it further below the surface, which seems to have been a little bit of an incident with this operation and the measures we have taken against it so far. They haven't worked. This has spread into even more questionable business practices because we have been trying to construct the operation. This is another manifestation that we need to promote financiallocks. I think it's really important. These are about the wrongest loans a home can take. That's what I think we can all agree with. They are predators, it is very difficult to repay, and growth levels are vague and enormously high. Money charm and its growth are immensely important. But we have to look at the whole thing because we don't just push the operation farther below the surface because it seems to be doing okay, no matter what the conditions it has been placed so far. I strongly urge a minister to look at this very carefully, how best to react, and to try to get some connection between the activities involved so that it really works in the long run.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u38	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you for saying something, okay? paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, for bringing this up and thanking the Minister for his fine arm. It's obvious that she's started a job at the Ministry to try to get at least one. Some picture of this case that I think is very important. Small loans, fast money, or what we call this is another way to access money that we don't already make but that we want to use right away. In effect, it is a test, and it is one form of overwage or roll cards or something like that - unless the consumer does not have a steady business relationship with the bank, so the loan company does not have direct access to information in the same way as the bank. the bank that most of us may or may most people have in business with, the bank has access to all information, at least It's financial information about us very much. Overwhelming loans at banks are now designed to form somewhere in the range of 10.5How2%, depending on what business will be involved, and thus interest in small loans, at least as published on the Internet, it appears reasonable, i.e. They are 121.712.5%, depending on what they say. Then, when you start to calculate or look closely, the annual ratios are often around 50%, often much higher, and so, in more complete opposition to 26. a law on consumer loans that stipulates the maximum growth rate of 50%, i.e. in the annual ratio. I think it is entirely the monopoly that the Minister and the Ministry must make a clear assessment of these companies, of which they are, in particular, highly authorized and found out who are using the so-called services of these companies because it is nothing other than loan-borrowing activities as it seems to be being run today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u39	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir for bringing up this important subject in this hall and thanking the highest. Minister for her input and the what. Parliamentaries who have participated in the discussion. I've got a seat. The Economic and Business Committee. As mentioned in the discussion, on March 15 we requested to have a representative of the National Institutes of consumers. to discuss this matter in particular. It was very lonely on the committee to open up a matter of initiative in terms of the small loans. We asked for information from the consumers' firm's employees as to what could be done better in this frame of law. As noted in the case of the minister, the representatives of the Neytland Institute also reported that we are going beyond the European Community legislation for such a loan. Nevertheless, it seems that despite the tips, reminders, and fines, certain companies have been able to put up with the law repeatedly. That's why I think it's very important to define what's meant. Our phones, these smart devices, are also a great technical innovation, and a number of companies have developed all kinds of innovations to service us through these devices. Being able to borrow through your phone, per se is not illegal at all and can be good in some cases, as long as people are within the normal range. It's completely unacceptable, and it's annoying to see that a company has been playing around the law frame by setting up some sort of electronic book sale and the like. As far as I know, there is only one company to discuss who has been reproved. It is registered in Denmark with four different websites. I welcome the initiative of a ministerial servant in setting up a group to review this matter. Clearly, there are some factors to consider. I agree that the situation in which it is in certain companies is unacceptable, but I also admit that I think we need to consider in general the financial lock of young people. [[The president calls.]] I think there's also a major part of this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u40	A respectable president. We need a much more powerful consumer protection on this market. These small loan companies are engaged in cruel marketing, with particular attention to young people and those whose feet are down, to the weakest. These small loan companies have been treated guilty of their illegal acts, but they continue to break the law from 2013 because they get away with it and they pay for it. It is such a treasure. This is financial activity. It's a bank operation. Money management is to be in accordance with financial regulations in general. I can't imagine how this company works somehow under that radar. People around here have been talking about financiallocks. It is very important to promote financiallocks, extremes, and generally promote the skills of young people to survive in this community. Yet, society in general should not be a jungle. Laws and rules are not necessarily for those who know and know and those who are knowledgeable about financial matters. Rather, they are for the protection of those who are financialists, who are unable to dictate, who have borrowed some kind of situation they cannot handle. [[The president calls.]] That's what we should think about when we talk about these stigmas.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u41	V.E.G. President. I'd like to say, and a minister for attending the discussion, and for those who have spoken before. I want to say something. paritaprevir Soursteins Sæmundson's Sæmundsson and others are in my mind that in 2013, this tiny loan company was not legalized by the General Assembly when it was discussed at the council. Moneylocks are talked about, and they may be able to promote financiallocks, but young people, vulnerable people, may not be good enough for financiallocks. I also appeal to disorderly people who have drug and alcohol problems and have to finance their activities as soon as possible. There are sad things in this regard. Self - respect is said to be kept in order, that good self - respect is never okay unless financial matters are right for the individual. Those who find themselves in financial trouble, which can easily happen to those who do not have the line in financiallocks, can we say, often take a long time to work it out. Men and women can spend a long time working to deal with financial problems. That's why we're supposed to tie up a little loan operation. It is disturbing, I think of the way that these things are done today, and we are to stand on our feet as a nation in those matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u42	V.E.G. President. I would like to thank you for receiving a word of speech and for this discussion, which has clearly shown the need to respond. Now the trend has been that most young people, most of them in distress, are increasingly looking to the agent of a credit agent, whose problems are largely dues. There has been a great change. Now such debt has become a higher proportion of total debt than real estate debt in this group. An agent recently observed in debt that this share is 43% of the total demand for remuneration since 18% 2015. This problem has so increased rapidly over the course of the three years, and it is obvious that this problem will take action. That's why I'm so happy for what's being said. Ministers that a working group will carefully review the position of these enterprises, this activity. It has been observed that the work is now much saved abroad. A credit agent has complained that when he negotiates with his clients, he may have trouble reaching these parties to achieve contracts and to get people out of his cycle of crisis. Clearly, much is taking place. However, I'd like to say it's very important, since these companies have avoided the conditions they have yet been given in the law, that they will become an employee and registration holder so that they can handle it when these companies are advised to break the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u43	A respectable president. I like to hear in this discussion that it seems that there is a mutual agreement among all of the council halls to allow this operation to be granted. But I understand that expert I have had the opportunity to speak to on committees and elsewhere that would, for example, do so. The consumer organisations and consumers and other sources make it easier to comply with the rules and main principles we have set and put forth in this business. I'd like to go on an interesting subject as well. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson mentioned here earlier. There is a point that is called only too seldom here in the Hall, that is the danger that when we, the noble lawgiver, set laws, and start banning things, the community may not react in the way we want it to. This happens, and it turns out that most people are relatively free, and they can do whatever they want, no matter what it takes. We try to make some progress toward our objective, but we need to understand this fact, regardless of how we feel about the blessing of our freedom. In this context, it is important to realize what causes a debt to mean. In a cultured sense, a debt means that there are courts or some authority that can determine a legitimate debt and can do something about it if it is not paid. Then we have all kinds of processes around it, including collapse. It is when we find ourselves in a place where debt will be collected by other means, see violence, that we see on that threshold. To answer that. I don't think we're going to that place by going further in law with this one company in Iceland. If I was, maybe I'd stick around a little longer. But I don't think it's gonna be like that. Although the evidence is important and well worth considering every time we set a law on our society, I don't think it will lead to it in this case. But we'll see what comes out of work as the highest level. Minister has announced.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u44	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir for starting this discussion and Minister for giving an answer. We are dealing with loans that are nothing more than financial violence to a certain group of people, especially to the worst. Hv. A senator before me said it was difficult to make laws that worked. We've been talking about some kind of bad habits. In the past, in ancient times, we used a cross and holy water on dirt. I don't think it'll do in this case. But who is taking these loans? I was president of the Boves and I'm still in charge. There I met people who have taken small loans. It wasn't bad people, it was disability people, it was people who took small loans because they didn't have food for the month, people with children who had no choice but to take those loans. It's the most pathetic thing about everything in our society that we say is rich and that everyone should have it, that you can play on the worst people and need money to survive, just to buy food or get to a doctor. The temptation is great when you can just pick up the phone and borrow in an instant. The second thing about this is that we're talking about hundreds of percent. You see 372% interest. I remember when I was working on Brudge, at the Lau 259, that a company that offered 30% interest was closed. The police came and shut up. It was a york job. What are we talking about here, and why are we going to let this happen? I don't believe we can stop this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u45	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Ministers and members of Parliament who have discussed this discussion, which I think is very important. I've been talking about this for a few years, and you're obviously worried about it, especially to the younger ones. As noted, that problem has been seen today, and it has been shown in the discussion of a credit agent. I'm glad we're here to appoint a team to get into this and take even. for the questions I asked for the highest. Minister. However, I feel that we should promptly record what the neighboring nations have done, i.e. o entitlement. As soon as it's done, we've solved so much else. In my opinion, there is no need for anything particularly to wait on, but it may well be better to cross this whole thing. I would have liked to see it done sooner. Clearly, the frame is incompetent now. We need to have him much clearer. In this sector, social security is like many others, and taking loans in another person's name is completely unacceptable. It has been done, not even twice, but repeatedly. Parents have shown up young children, some of whom have made their calls and have been able to borrow, etc. There are some things that have happened. Of course, there's a lot underneath. This company needs e.g. not to give up the debt of individuals like other financial companies. If I'm going to some bank's credit check because I'm going to buy a place I can have 4 billion. K. a small loan on my back, and my bank doesn't know it and can't take it into account. And then everything goes to shit when it comes to getting a divorce. [[The president calls.]] We need to do this work permissible and subject it to the laws that other financial institutions are subject to because it is nothing more than financial activity.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u46	Mr. President. I thank you again for this discussion. There's a lot of things here that I'm taking back after her, such as. That when the matter was held in 2013, the council decided that a small loan company should not be authorized. Now it sounds like, at least the members of the team involved, that there is a prospective council wish to allow these companies to be authorized, so there is a change there. I wanted to say a few things. First, we do not forget that in many cases small loan companies, although we have defined the concept of small loans, run entirely within the framework of the laws and rules of homes, and are used as a set alternative methods. In this case, of course, changes in financial activity, I mention so-called financial companies and other things, that are, of course, becoming changes that have nothing to do with what we're talking about here, but that's also important to define the concept a little loan, what kind of company these are and what sort of financial companies are because they're also often new companies that are going to evolve further? I also wanted to introduce the rights question only. The discussion has been about either putting such permission into a consumer loan law or turning down a small loan company under the concept of a financial firm and, therefore, under the financial law but the head of a small loan company, would be the SEC, as mentioned here, in place of the Neighbours Office. This was examined when the law was given, and the will was not to be done. It's probably changed. I'd like to agree too with what. paritaprevir Þorsteinn Víglundsson on the importance of looking at the interaction of the changes we have made in recent years and of developing these activities, and it comes back to our seeing how we will achieve our goal. To answer that. paritaprevir In my first speech, Karl Gauti Hjaltason mentioned that work was started at the Ministry to make a special analysis. [[The president calls.]] According to the records from the customs manager, they collect it, but most of the small loan companies used by the consumers' law and have come in collections at the customs managers are under bankruptcy. It'll probably have an effect.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u47	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Travel, industrial and innovation ministers for being prepared to discuss the distribution of tourists across the country. The concept of this discussion is a little confusing to me. Of course, tourists are not dust that can be sprinkled on the land like salt, but when it is checked, governments by action or inactivity can have a significant impact on their ability to travel and thus the distribution of tourists across the country. Icelandic tourism has quickly grown to be one of the country's basic sectors and is now the most commercial sector on the income. It looks like continued growth in transport services in Iceland and globally. Under these circumstances, it is important to make use of most of the country as an attraction to tourism and that tourists go in most places. It can improve the target group of tourism, it can spread pressures on the country, create employment opportunities beyond this level, increase investment and ensure the availability of a more diverse service throughout the country throughout the year. As for this, I believe there is a state of peace. In fact, the government covenant included the government. the increasing distribution of tourists across the country is important in the light of nature protection and geographic considerations. One thing that the government has stressed for this purpose is the better use of the international airports in Akureyri and the Eglines, but it has been shown that if there are successes in these pursuits, there are obstacles to overcome, and many, both public and private, need to work at the rhythms of each person's work. One of the barriers is a higher price of fuel on the international airports in Akureyri and in Egls than in Keflavík. The transport of fuels has not reached airplane fuels. This misplaces the competitive position of the choice and counteracts the arrival of airlines at regular flights to places in Iceland other than Cheflavík. I have repeatedly discussed these matters here and even before. provide the groundwork for transport in 2016 without success. However, there is now a proposal at the General Assembly for a strategy-based policy-making program of 2018-2024 from transport and rural management. One of the goals there is an equation between international airports. It is suggested that a team be appointed to make a suggestion for the price of aircraft fuel on the international airports. The aim must be for the group to submit proposals by the end of 2018. I encourage senators to follow this goal closely in the process of putting aside the plans and to build hopes for rapid and effective outcomes. The distribution of tourists cannot be considered without referring to market and introduction. Clearly, vast amounts of money are being joined by this system of business, both by tourism companies and by the government. However, no special attention can be given to a presentation in areas where full - time service, such as North, Western, and Eastern, cannot be built. The introduction of this part of the country appeared mainly to rest in the market rooms of the country without specifically public funding for its purpose, nor to have enough contact with the Iceland Office, which is a market worker abroad. Air development fund was set up in 2016 to support the development of a new flight route to Iceland so that regular international airports can be established in Akureyri and Bulgaria. A defined purpose was to promote the distribution of tourists across the country in accordance with Vega in tourism, improve the implementation of the state's infrastructure, improve the residence conditions and the quality of the local population, and improve the operating conditions in the North and Eastern countries. The decision to operate the fund for more than three years is not yet to be made, 2017-2019. It's a very short time to get real experience on the fund. A respectable president. As mentioned earlier, many strands need to be added to achieve success in building international tourism and distributing tourists. So at the beginning of this discussion, I want to ask the highest. Minister: Tells you the highest. Minister to Air Development Fund yields results in the basis goal? Will a minister consider other factors at the same time in order to contribute to the distribution of tourists across the country? How is the role of public marketing defined in the distribution of tourists in many parts of the country? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u48	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir negative for requesting this particular discussion on the use of international airports to spread tourists around the country. It is sometimes a joke that we talk about distributing the country to tourists, who are talking about ways that governments can go to reach the country, both in order to spread the pressure and also in order to benefit the whole country from the structure that has taken place in tourism. As noted in Vega in a travel service published in late 2015, the distribution of tourists is one of the important factors to distribute stress and benefits. In May 2016, a report on the increase in international flight prospects began to develop. The aim of the fund is to support the development of a new flight route to Iceland so that regular international airports of Akureyri and Eglel sites can be established. It operates in two departments, lead development departments, market development departments, and money is guaranteed in it for the next year. The adjustment was made in 2017 that the fund was authorized to support linking flights within the branch area of the Keflavour Airport. The fund has already supported one party on behalf of a flight to Eglish position and two members for a flight to Akureyri. That's when I decided last year to count 20 million. K. To the National Marketing Office and 20 million. K. to the eastern bridge to support the launch of international flights in Akureyri and Egeils to direct international flights. About that question why. I would like to say that because of the short time the fund began to work, it is difficult to make a statement. However, I tend to believe that we are on the right track, that we see evidence of it, and that there are certain signs. We have developed a system that supports further opening goals in the country and also support the fund's rules in the pursuit of more outdoor tourists with greater support for sponsors between October and April. About a question why. The senator's opinion of the need to consider whether more factors are needed to get tourists further into the country, surely so is the case. Travelers will not be distributed by hand but will need to be interested in the varied possibilities available in many countries and the services provided by the government must be in accordance with these locations, as well as markets. The objective of the government has been to increase the spread of the land and reduce seasons. These goals are set up in Vega, and they are also presented in a new financial program, which includes a new financial agenda. it is stated that the proportion of tourists visiting in the country will increase by 2.5 percent per year from baseline in 2017. Since 2011, the Ministry has funded Iceland's marketing project throughout the year, which has included: former goals to guide. In addition, the Ministry has prioritized funds for the implementation of the market areas, but they play a key role in the coordination of market work and products development in national parts. There have been more than 4 billion available from tourism funds from 2012 to today in order to build up and maintain destinations for tourists around the country, with improved access and safety guided by increasing emphasis on building new sails that can contribute to the increasing distribution of tourists across the country. We saw that in the latest distribution of the fund. Other projects could be mentioned, e.g. The design of the national destinations called DMP, which are involved in integrated policy measures within each part of the country where the national part decides which specialness they want to have and how important it is. This is to draw up the unique characteristics and status of areas which will again be used in product development and marketing which will take into account the wide range of possibilities that are available across the country. In my opinion, the coming losses need to be emphasised on both the product development and the innovation of tourism. Then I refer to both traditional entertainment products, but I also need to focus on the great potential for technology development and the practicality of information technology to improve the efficiency of business management, as well as the development of recreation and, like, access control. Regarding the third question, official marketing under the hat of the Iceland project has been aimed all year to increase the distribution of tourists across the country and out of the country. However, I know of criticism, especially from international tourism companies, of how rich it is in the market to look to the whole country. The aim of the project reveals that among our main goals, it is to match the annual fluctuation that we have done well and spread to tourists throughout the country, especially during the wintertime. The project is being done by the National Institute of Iceland in good cooperation with the Ministry and the article itself. Of course, it has to be noted that Iceland's clinic and marketing agencies cannot be apart, that they must work very well together in order to achieve government goals in these matters. I finally thank you. A senator for the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u49	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. An abbreviation, Anna Sævarsdóttir, for setting up this important matter. Unfortunately, there is a number of evidence that, instead of looking at the distribution of tourists in the country, we are taking a few steps back in the market of the country and when it comes to the arrival of the country through the markets in the market for international tourists. In this context, there is a fine report on the tolerability of tourism at the highest level. Travel, industrial and innovation ministers have now submitted. We have a very important summary and a good assessment of the situation, but I want to use this opportunity now and I want to make the most of it. A minister should be careful that the focus will not go all into fixing those areas, which are truly important but that the focus is to be put in an effort to change them by marketing other areas. The fact is, on days we talk about distributing the country to tourists, but very little is done, nothing is done. For example, contracts with the national markets have not yet been signed. The fact is, too, that of more than 150 million people. K. which were to run to the Member States, it appears that only two-thirds of that budget will actually flow directly to the accession of the national market and to projects that are put first. I'm asking the highest. Minister: Is that acceptable? Mr. President. Similarly, a contribution has been made to the marketing of parts abroad and appears to be in some kind of limbo between Ministers who must obviously be unacceptable at all places, which means that the national parts are not at the same level when it comes to the marketing of abroad, where not all the parts of the country have to put strong tourism companies into common markets. This also means that the parts of the country that are at the back of the population in terms of a number of tourists still remain in their foreheads.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u50	Mr. President. As we all know, the natural nature of Iceland is one of the main reasons for the arrival of tourists in the country and the distribution of tourists. The opportunity to make better use of the land through the increased distribution of tourists is great. In this regard, good transportation is a priority. For example, for example, the number of tourists who visit the Western Islands is highly dependent on the transport of the landy Islands, and safe and safe transport is most important, not least of the safety issues for tourists and road users alike. However, it is not enough to write reports on the importance of distributing tourists through the country when infrastructure, such as the road system, is out of order. If we take an example of the weather, then the Western environment is a large part of nature, but the land has been considerably overlooked when the distribution of tourists across the country and in this regard is important to improve transport and to implement such projects as animal-based tunnels, important implementation, completion. Actions must follow words. Main tourist attractions must be open to people. And now Easter was, for example, Easter. The path to the Black Falls in Thomson was one piece of dirt, and we saw in the news recently traveled on the Smoke Valley in the same state of Whosori. There is also the situation at the site of Jackion, one of the most popular tourist attractions in the country, where there is shame. The budget for building up our main tourist attractions is not sufficient. It was, for example. It was hard to believe that landowners went to charge their fees at the Selejalands Falls, the currency was intended to add the situation to the falls. However, the application in the tourist market was not to be followed three times to correct the situation, but applications were always withheld. Mr. President. It is inevitable to seriously examine the access control of our major natural spheres, such as. Landers, and we must not be shy about shutting down some areas when stress is necessary. [[The president calls.]] Travelers must show this understanding, much is at stake. Access controls have been responsible for protecting our precious nature, for the security of tourists, and especially for the success of the tourist experience. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u51	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. The apocalyptic and the highest. Minister for this discussion. We'll talk about the distribution of tourists, which is a natural complex process if you think about it. The word can sometimes be misunderstood. Many people see it as some kind of hand - directed herd management that it is not, and I'm not serving it to anyone here. Airfields are important, and I would also like to point to ports, other than Southland, if cruise routes do not increase in the future, so this certainly needs to be watched. The main issue for the increased bioavailability of tourists to areas that tolerate more tourism is my assessment of triples, as well as flying access, and this is a presentation like that. Forethought pointed out that need to be increased and improved. This will give rise to the fact that the marketing agencies are not sufficiently funded, and they are even being reduced, such as on Smokeynes, which is certainly a ruined land area. There are improved transports within the country, public transport and internal transport reviews as a frightening journey, but, of course, it is the main road involved in this, and we look to a new transport plan. I'm putting a lot of importance on an investment in the district. Travelers are attracted to where it works, and I mention examples of housefells that have been taken for walks and bike routes, hotels, ice spills in Langjork and health in Branch Language. They need to be determined in what way they can be promoted, both in the West, in the North East, in the Middle West, and in parts of the East, for example, but in this regard we must not forget that the limits of endurance are still there, and the key to losing weight in overworked places is certainly to distribute travelers, as it is said, but the areas we also take our endurance and we must not forget.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u52	Mr. President. A road guide in a travel service, one of the basic data in this discussion, says that the distribution of tourists is one of the key or emphasis that needs to be promoted in the next five years. Why? Because the focus on that work has a long-term focus on sustainable development, if you have a document on sustainable development. What for? This sustainable development must be based on a solid foundation. For this to be possible, it must be, by permission of the president, a good deal with society, nature, and other sectors. This is key. I took a good look at this before the 2016 election, and then it was this; sustainable development in a good way, sustainable tourism in a good way. That was the key. One of them is the distribution of tourists. Why? We're going into another source that KPMG did about what is called a scrawl and risk analysis of these factors. It shows that the main risk factors for tourism are, with the permission of a president: ▪ The local negative attitude. This adds up the possibility that it could happen on the other hand and on the other hand. If they multiply these two factors together, they'll have the risk factor. It is a negative attitude for the locals to have a risk score of 16. This is natural if you feel that too many tourists meet in one place, it has the negative effect on the local experience. Another thing is, people are in popular tourist attractions. It matters. If too many people come to the same place, the experience of tourists is not good for all of this and then natural damage becomes. That is the key to this discussion of distributing tourists. I'm going to review it better in the second speech and follow up on the discussion, how it's coming forward. And note why this special discussion is not with the secretary of transportation who is responsible for the task of accessing foreign tourists to the airports of the country, other than the Cheflavour Airport. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u53	A respectable president. Thank you for taking up this matter at the council. The distribution of tourists throughout the country is one of the greatest challenges facing us. The minister and the government of all places where the tourist stream to the country is growing without parallel. None. There I am referring to the challenge that we are able to spread the stream of tourists across the country for various purposes in distributing the pressures of tourists and thus contribute to protecting our vulnerable land from disturbance. Second, to distribute income from tourists throughout the country, small areas continue to be inhabited. Third, show those who attend our country more pearls. If you want to spread more of the country I hope for, you also need to consider some factors. First, as a saying, to advance more airports than just southwestern corner. Then we're talking about Akureyri Airport and Egls base airport. I would also like to mention Ishafjörður and Hornaf Airport, to update them so that they will be in a position to receive ever - increasing numbers of tourists in a hurry. Second, it has to be made up of road traffic, and it is a natural challenge, made unmistakably into part of the country, and it calls for the structure of the road system, a spectacular increase in twice the road of highway 1, a bridge all over the Southland, and a walk across the mountains of North and Eastern countries, as well as the West. And also, of course, to complete the Landing Harbor. This is a challenge, there is no doubt about it, but so obvious when the main source of currency is the tourist sector. I haven't mentioned the protection of tourist positions and I don't intend to waste my time on it. But what are the limits of our most vulnerable nature? [[The president calls.]] I agree with one senator who felt that access control was necessary. [[The president calls.]] But there's no small-dose cure here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u54	Mr. President. As I would like to thank others for this discussion, it is urgent and very important for us here, as well as for the tourism and the region. How important it is that we have already accepted certain facts! The whole area has been filled with garbage, so to speak, and visitors have to be distributed around the country. They must be quick to build such an environment on the part of the government that it becomes attractive. I'll agree with the highest. Minister, with the most important part of this now, it is also promoting product development and innovation, using technology, so that we can expand the country's distribution of tourists, especially in the light of nature protection policies, but also based policy. I can see that one of the most focused is in Akureyri and Engels. It's fine, and I agree with the viewpoints behind it, and I am a firm supporter of the fact that it will be done. On the other hand, I'd like to drag Westfjord in here. We know that airport conditions are bad, especially on the ice. I encourage the Minister to have a conversation with the secretary of transportation in order to immediately examine the new airport area for Isengard and the rest of the Westerners. A better flight route at the West and for the West must be checked and secure. There may also be a factor in the distribution of tourists. Transportation continues on the West. It is more important than tears to see again and again traveling there not finished, as is the forest of Chef, which would contribute to travel, including the rest of the world. ... ontheWestlands. It's getting in the system all the time. The same is true today, with the importance of animal footprints, they will be finished in 2020, but they will not be effectively useful until the road across the Dome is finished. We shouldn't start with him until 2020, so we have to start looking into this a little more context and get to work. It's been analyzed in the junk, as I said before, and we know exactly what to do. Now it takes the highest. Secretary of travel to show what she's got and get to these things. [[The president calls.]] I know she has the will, the courage, and the courage to do it. She has the backing here at a council meeting to get her things done.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u55	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir negative to start this discussion and the highest. Minister for the answers. We have observed a media discussion on the hurrying of tourists in popular tourist areas, and the rush has become so intense that there is a problem. Sensitive areas are damaged. It is vital that we spread the pressures of land and safe transport are essential for it. In order to balance the competitive status of a part of the country in transport services and living conditions, international airports are important criteria. Strengthened by the international airports in most parts of the country is a powerful means of doing so. It is also important for other articles, such as fish farming and fish exporting, but in conjunction with the development of international airports around the country, other transport routes need to be considered. The role of the government is to support the development of international travel services. In this regard, winter service is an important factor, and it is important to the safety of all road users who pass through the country. This increases highway safety and allows for increased traffic weights and safe transport throughout the year. There is also a need to increase the meaning and information that will definitely reach tourists. There's another dot. In this country, one round road is defined in the country, a ringway 1, but it is also a region that must be more emphasised, e.g. on the West and the Snowstones and beyond. Their main routes of land must be reinforced and the need to be served accordingly. In many of these areas, you can find a means of transportation, which are bottle - necked so that you can talk about perpendition. With such a definition, the marketing of the areas would be much easier, and marketing is a powerful way to distribute tourists throughout the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u56	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir's log for this discussion. Here, you may want to start a little chat about the flying fund that the perfunctory speakers discuss in their questions, and I would like to point out the successful activities of the air development fund in connection with Super Break to Akureyri's flight from Britain. The most remarkable thing about the flights of the British tourist agency is that 95% of the pilots were already sold before the first flight, considering that the flights had increased from eight to 14 in the last few months before the first flight. So the travel agency decided not to go on a commercial campaign for the flight but to wait on a commercial campaign and advertise a flight for the next winter that has started 22 flights and has already sold 20% of the seats offered after eight months. Today I obtained information that they are already adding, and they will be at least Twenty-six next winter. What I find to be the most practical in this and interesting of all this case is the tremendous demand for flying. I like it when the U.S. Senate hears here. Then I think of another important point in this - we only have two minutes and it's hard to go elsewhere - but it's the property policy of Istavia and how we see the future how the mastery should serve the State's purpose in these matters. Therefore, it is important that the owner's policy arise as soon as possible. I believe there is hope that the new selective tenant policy of Istavia's purpose for the State and for us Icelanders will appear in the latter part of this year and wait eagerly for it. Then I feel that it is important just at the end of the term to mention the important work of the market room in the country. Let's aim for a better activation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u57	Mr. President. It's like the highest. Sadly, a minister in his speech earlier seems to be making the marketing of an Icelandic agency come back to focus on the whole of Iceland instead of lifting the national components, and it seems to be a little or nothing about that conversation with the part of the country. We must make comments on this work ethic. We see this to be a picture of the results achieved by Super Break in the North, like a whale. paritaprevir Njáll by Trausti Friðbertsson, it's possible if we're all working together. So I want to emphasize it to the highest level. Ministerial care for the real distribution of tourists throughout the country is thus reducing the intolerance of inhabitants, nature, and tourists on the southwest corner. So it would be to form a report showing the real status of each part of the country when it comes to tourism instead of always looking at the whole country and then making a special effort for a presentation of non-sential parts of the country, as well as the areas that have not been enjoying the arrival of tourists in their own parts of the country. At the same time, it might be possible to make transport efforts so that areas that are left behind when it is time to actually receive tourists, since the structure of sails is low if you can't reach them, or if there's no money to market them once. Like what? paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir came in earlier, we know what this project is. The will of the council has been shown many times. We need to take that assignment no later than we need right away. Mr. President. It is more than tears that when it comes to the distribution of tourists throughout the country, we are no longer able to do so. Surely we can do better than that. I know it's the highest. Minister has the will. Let's gather together and we'll do better.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u58	A respectable president. Like others, I want to thank you for this fine discussion. It's fun, it's always fun to talk about how we can distribute tourists, how we can expand the country when it comes to interesting sectors like the tourism industry. None of this is going to happen if we don't have the wood in order. If we don't have the infrastructure, we don't do this, we're clear. When you leave Cheflavour Airport, which it is today, you are likely to stop and get caught in Hafnarfjörður. There is a lot to look at in Hafnarfjörður, a beautiful town, but when traffic stops there because the Smokey Way is not double and not smart, and traffic jams start to get stuck there. It doesn't have to go any further. If we look at the financial program, the budget of the government, and the policy that the government has, of course, we're disappointed in what we're discussing here, i.e. how we are going to distribute the tourists. The infrastructure is very limited in its budget. We see that the need for transportation is just a fraction of what has been spoken. I don't fully understand how to increase the number of tourists if we don't have money to promote the infrastructure. This is a ground plan. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers, whether key points in a rural program aimed at promoting international tourism are fully funded. Has a structured plan been financed when it comes to promoting tourism? I'd like to ask the highest. Minister to this. It has also been found to be crystal clear that the government has failed to agree on how the trade of tourists is supposed to be. As a result, we may miss possible funds that could have gone into the necessary structure, e.g. in hospital services, law enforcement, transportation, roads, and so forth to receive tourists if we are going to increase their numbers. So I'd like to mention it here, Mr. President, that before the council, there is a suggestion that Alexander's airport at the South Pacific Ocean will be made a spare airport. This is in order to strengthen and distribute passengers because it will strengthen Akureyri, Reykjavík, Cheflavík, and Eglavil sites in order to make this airport decent. I challenge the highest. Ministers to ensure the funding necessary to make this reality what we're talking about here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u59	Mr. President. I'd like to go back to Vega for travel service because it shows where the responsibility is for the distribution of tourists, one of these chapters, one of these factors that is said to have to be adjusted to achieve the goal of developing tourism sustainablely and in agreement with the people of the country, in agreement with other occupations, and in harmony with the country and nature. It says, by permission of the President: ▪ The maintenance and development of the interior of the flight will be consistent with the rise in the number of tourists in the country, both in international and international flights. We should evaluate how, in a sustainable manner, the international airports will increase to the country and ensure that international flights are in good condition. Page 25 shows that this project is the responsibility of the Minister of Ministers of the Interior, but it has been received today, since there has been spread by the secretary of transportation and local government and the Minister of Justice, to be with transport and local government ministers. I was trying to find out who was responsible for this, and that is the minister. In contrast, industrial and innovation ministers are responsible for this, i.e. The road guide, to introduce Iceland, the tourist country all year long and in all parts of the country. So the presentation work is there, but the responsibility for this special subject of this special discussion is for the local government and transport secretary. We need to get that information from him, or perhaps a minister or a advocate of this special discussion will find out more because we need to get it clear from those who are responsible for the project as to how it will continue and how that minister intends to achieve it. Then I'd like to agree with another senator that we have to look at the financial program, how it looks there, because if money doesn't follow, it's gonna be a little down.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u60	A respectable president. I thank Anna Saevard's Sævarsdóttir for this discussion and the highest. Minister for being here. I just want to take another pole in this discussion. We're talking about the international airport in Akureyri and the Egls. The other day, jets couldn't land in Keflavík because of the weather. An emergency situation arose at Akureyri Airports and planes had to fly there as well as at the Eglish Airport. I'm asking, why don't we start at the right end? As far as I'm concerned, the situation in both of these cases is that you need a tow truck to drag jets so that you can line them up. If a flight had just arrived somewhere else at the same time, there would have been a disaster. Why don't we just start at the right end and assume that nobody is in danger and that things are all right? That's a couple of pennies. I'd like to ask a minister if she has any contact with the secretary of transportation on these matters, if there's a tow truck in there to pull jets so that things are okay there, whether it's on the schedule, or if there's any other thing. As we have seen, we must not forget that the West are part of the land. It seems often forgotten that tourists too need to go there. So I understand that this flying fund is in opposition to the EFTA rules and the ESA's rules of state strength have also been discussed in this matter. There seems to be a conflict. I ask you, don't you have to check all of this so it's okay before we start pumping tourists in?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u61	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister, Þórdís Reykfjörð brown, Gylfadóttir Girl's Daughter, the answers, and all of them. Councilmen who made a point of it. Indeed, there are many challenges to the distribution of tourists, and they have been drawn here and hopefully all of us, along with the highest power. Minister to action. I'm going to start by showing that the focus or focus in this discussion was on an air - development fund that has a special link to the international airports at Egls and Akureyri. That's why my focus has turned on it. I welcome the response of a minister to the continuation of its operating funds and, quite frankly, the fund is under travel, industrial and innovation ministers. However, there is a need to increase the quality of the fund from the rest of the country's market room, i.e. The Ministry, Istavia, and the National Institute of Iceland need to introduce the fund and its role so that airlines know only about it. It has proved to be true, as shown in the language of the day. paritaprevir Of the Njáll of Friðbertsson, son of Traustibert, that the fund is making great success, and e.g. During winter, there has been an increase in the use of inns in Northland as well as in direct flights there. Marketing agencies in the national part of the world have little foreview. Thus, work at the national destination programmes has not been established to support funding for post-marketing follow-up. [[The president calls.]] That's quite another topic. I think we should just ask for it right after that, because there are many things we can't say. [[The president calls.]] However, the distribution of tourists through the land in a reasonable way will increase economic growth in the land. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u62	Mr. President. There's a lot of things I'd like to come in on, see how far I can get with them. First, I want to get the discussion to the right place when it comes to the fact that little was done to spread more tourists around the country. I completely disagree. All that governments are doing is directly or indirectly linked to the goal of spreading more of the country's tourists by distributing the pressures and benefits of the structure provided by our tourism. Because of the doubt that my priority will be to strengthen the market places, that money shall run down to the market room, I assure you. A senator says that's how it's gonna be. All the money to run to the market room will, but it's true that negotiations have not been completed. I really hope they run out in the next few days. Of course, in foreign markets it is true that it matters. Then I'll just say again: An Iceland lab can't be without the markets, and the markets probably can't be without an Iceland lab. This cooperation is very important for the whole country and for ours. That's why we put money in it. We know that the market agencies are doing this work in close communities. It matters. I'm not going to say, however, that we've put a dot behind the spread of the country to tourists. There is much work to be done. We can see this in the use of hotels and hotels in various places. We know this from abroad too, and if we think about where we go when we call on other countries, so to speak. Just as an example of the changes we can see, for example, came in. The marketing room of Northern America on the flight with Super Break, with the help of good men, and between January 2017 and January 2018, we saw a 60% increase in hotel attendance - just this month. [[The president calls.]] This is direct, since we have a live flight to this location. The West came, and then I just wanted to say that, of course, I agree with everything. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, the daughter of Gunnar, came in. It's not on my line, but this discussion was about the flying funds, so we're talking more about Egls and Akureyri.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u63	Mr. President. We like to say that our tourism is at a fork in the road. I assume we agree on that, chief. Minister and I. It slows down the growth. Trailer's changing. Blood pressure, society, and nature are taking a real test, at least in some places. In some areas, endurance is achieved compared with infrastructure. Everything calls it control, like all other resources. Change is necessary in many areas of the workplace. Let me mention four somewhat practitiony points to the minister and discuss them. First, to ensure high levels of education is an increase in the number of land officials. This means summer and winter alike. You have to follow analysis on demand to manage the necessary numbers, but I'd like to hear a Minister's opinion of it. Second, the legalization of the guide's work is encouraged by the organization of guide guides, and I think it is time to move to work and at the same time to have such guides on certain trips. We can talk about sightseeings, groups, bus trips, which we would like to call, certain mountain and earth voyages, which I know well, and other things. Third, I've spoken more than once about having police officers who are educated in the country or vice versa, the landkeepers who are educated police officers, regardless of what men want to do with it, i.e. to unite these roles in a relatively small group of non-alpha zones. Many people have found that they have not gone well enough in many areas of land prices, but they have relatively limited authority to control people or other factors or direct orders. The police have been on a small scale in the highlands. First of all, police officers are too few, and second, they are not educated in the particular profession we call a Marine. Fourth, the pressures on the U.S. rescue forces are on. This is voluntary work, as we know. These are some 100 companies, 18,000 people who engage in unselfish activity, a very good work. But isn't it time we reorganize this so that a part of this team, little things certainly, will simply be paid rescue teams? They can be some of the portents too, but there would be special rescue teams who are in the paid countryside who have their first calls and the relief of the volunteer forces.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u64	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator for the inquiry on how to react to the growth of tourists. The answer to the first question about whether I think it is likely to increase the number of landkeepers is simple: Yes, I believe that experience shows that such growth is efficient and is a good way to respond to these important aspects of tourism. National Guards play an important role and can play a wide variety of roles. In this way they are key to teaching tourists about safety and proper contact with our country and nature. Thus, by increasing the number of tourists, you can respond to pressures in short - term fashion. In recent years, the government has made arrangements to do the same. In particular, the three-year national development programme for building projects in 2018-2020 expected landkeeping funding as a total of 320 million. A.K., in addition to the pre-circuits of the state's institutions. Thus, the increase in land guard has been put first by the government. Regarding the second question, I answered during the last terms of a question, including the following: for my position on law protection on the job names of guide guides. There I replied, " I don't think it's right at this point. ' My attitude has not changed. The quality and quality of tourism are one of the guides we work for the development of tourism in the country. It must be remembered, however, that the law of protecting the job name of guide guides would lead to unskilled individuals, some with decades of guidance, others who know their country better than most others, not being able to call themselves guides. You might want to see if there are other goals to be met by law protection, such as the quality system of Vakans. That would be, for example. can be done by negotiations for tourism to use professional guides and introductions and advertisements that encourage the use of professional guides. It might also be noted that those who have had the guidance of local tourists that the main work for a certain period of time can gain rights by testing that they have the knowledge and skills needed to complete their instruction. The key thing to my mind is that the issues of guides are consistent with the development of tourism. The third question, then, that of the third question of the increased protection of the governor is a matter of opinion affecting many factors that overlap with the authority of both the Ministry of Environment and the Resources and the Ministry of Justice. Compromise related issues such as environmental and resource ministers. I'm aware that for the treatment of this Ministry there is a new regulation on land prices. The director's office in the Southland police and the office of the Northland police chief have provided high - level international surveillance and observation at international tourist attractions. Other than that, it's still the matter. Therefore, in agreement with the authority of the police, the police's handle and decisions about law enforcement are generally taken by the Ministry of Justice. With regard to the fourth question of rescue crews, I understand, according to my information from the Landsbourg Emergency Society, meeting with them not to be over-loaded on the rescue force by foreign tourists. Then I'd like to state that agents of the rescue forces have not requested that part of them be made public employees. If such a wish is at any point at some point, I will not be able to examine it with an open mind as to what will be best maintained. But then I think it's important to take into account the wishes of the rescue teams on these matters. To say, I also stress that it is important that these issues remain stable with the aim of promoting and improving the aspects of security, since they are one of the government's priorities when it comes to the tourism and structure of the country. In this regard, I'd also like to assume that on a bill for a travel agency I've recently submitted, it's about 10. the obligation of any person to offer or sell scheduled trips in this country to create a written security plan for each type of trip regardless of whether the person will sell the journey directly to a tourist or through another member. Safety programmes should always be written in both Icelandic and English. The aim is to improve the safety of tourists via the legislation of a security programme, but the risk of accidents increases with the known number of tourists. In order to cope properly with difficult situations that may arise, the obligation is that traveling workers must in advance have assessed the risks involved. Making a safety programme and evaluating the risk of travel thus enhances the independence of tourism and also increases the requirements for their performance.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u65	Mr. President. We'll talk here about the response to the growth of tourists. Then I'd like to re-examine the KPMG report on the future of the tourism service, where risk factors have been combined and road guide for travel services, both done 2016. There is so much good information we have. Now it's just a question of whether a minister is capable of carrying it out. We know what to do. Let's not judge a minister yet, that's too short the team would I say to judge a minister because we're going to judge the works, but what needs to be done is very clear. I really hope this minister manages to do this because this seminar party has been neglected for so long, it's a accumulated problem. So, I just want a minister, so I'm now calling her name, Þórdís Kolbrún Gylfadóttir Golffad, the longest name here, and I'm speaking in terms, successful in this project. [[The president calls.]] I hope this is going well.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u66	A respectable president. I'd like to make a National Guard a subject of publicity and the importance of landkeeping all year long. And to ensure that both guest rooms and land prices are present and especially in scattered areas where tourist traffic is low during the winter. That is where such a ministry is of even greater importance, i.e. since the public ministry of those who are on the market is not necessarily open during the winter, since it does not depend on them. It is also very important to have a place where tourists can get information, advice, and counselling on their journeys in different mortgages and information about nature.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u67	V.E.G. President. The issues discussed here and the queries from whence. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson is important. I wondered about some of the rescue teams. In view of becoming volunteers, people walk in rescue groups and put forth a lot of work to do about it. They need to be asked to come from them if any of the arrangements should be changed. National Guards are very important everywhere they are. I like very much all the ideas of integration and cooperation with workforce and labor force. We have a police school, a highly educated police officer, then we're going to educate and do something about it, so it's very important. But then we need to have some specific form of how we will work on it. The individual must be able to choose to become a police officer and, in particular, be a groundkeeper. I think that could just be very useful. I'd like to hear about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u68	A respectable president. I'm gonna start by saying thank you for your starter, okay? paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, for offering this inquiry and thanking the highest. Minister for the answers. The demand for a response to the growth of tourists is well aware that the leader is particularly concerned about a covering point of the country and that he is developing ideas of further implementation. I have to say, I like these ideas, but I've also cut that down in answer to the highest degree. Minister, how important this project is. There was an interesting input from which. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson and the interesting report that KPMG did back then. It shows so much the extent and extent of the travel services involved in many aspects, such as the highest. The minister came in. Clearly, we need to discuss these matters further and find further solution. I've got a lot of access control going into certain tourist areas. In view of recent media discussions, it is clear that we need to take the discussion further and to make decisions that will guide access to sensitive tourist sites. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u69	V.E.G. President. I appreciate this discussion. I admit I'm not quite a Marine with a warrant, but there may be some way you can work with them. However, there is a much greater need for us to take a general discussion of tourism, including access controls, which are absolutely necessary, and see how we are going, for example. to prevent the migrating of fragile places in the land from being trampled down even more quickly. One thing disappointed me in the highest answers. Minister, i.e. that she would not or would not consider legalizing the guide's work. I don't think it's because I don't think there's any problem setting up some sunset plan so that those who already work in guidery and have done it for a very long time and have wide experience, can do it while their age allows. But I think it's absolutely necessary that we raise our tour guide's work and make a much deeper requirement for guides, especially those taking travellers through sensitive territory. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u70	A respectable president. I thank the manager for the application related to travel and the management of tourism in the vulnerable environment of the country. However, I would like to maintain a particular perspective when it comes to increasing the population in order to increase safety, education, and environmental protection. I believe, indeed, that the control of nature's habitats is to be strengthened by strengthening the landguards and increasing the number of landguards. I think it's one of the key elements of the accesspilot that we've talked about so many times in this conference room and elsewhere. We've discussed another issue that will introduce this inquiry here, i.e. the number of police officers. We know that the number of police officers has been lacking for many years, and I pay attention not to the fact that we're adding two things, either to support the police and to increase the number of the police, as well as to linking border guards and groundkeeping with police work. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I believe these are two separate things and that we should focus on supporting the police, strengthening them, and increasing the resources that flow to them, and strengthening the defense, but not mixing these two. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u71	Mr. President. I thank everyone involved for this fine discussion. The important safety programmes of the enterprise have only been implemented. They are no substitute for any of the things we have talked about. They are just part of a safety network to be used by tourism and are probably not everywhere and must, of course, continue to work. Another factor that has also been identified is access control and tolerability, and so on. Then I just want to remind you of this report that has just been submitted - a request that came from the council - which is exactly on that subject. We are here discussing more practitioners, espionages, guidance, law enforcement, and lifesaving work. So we agree on an increase in landkeeping. When it comes to guidance and legalization, we may not agree, but the time mentioned before me is the time for the visit. paritaprevir Sæmundsson, i.e. The setting sun is known. This was done, for example, when high - school teachers received training privileges and had to go to college. This was done exactly that way, and it proved very well. I don't see any contradiction in that. I'll just back off that it's a trade and I'll legalize it. For law enforcement it is simply known in many countries. There's nothing new about law enforcement being treason, and property guards being law enforcement officers. It's just a special group inside the police, and it doesn't have anything to do with police funding. I emphasize that experience shows that the small group doing this is too small and not too knowledgeable for a Marine. For the rescue work, I have to remind you that this is a general issue of pressures on rescue teams, not just for tourism. This is weather - related and related to Iceland's own movements. I know it's because of my contact with these companies that there's a lot of complaints about a lot of pressure on certain companies and employers or employees that they work for. [[The president calls.]] So I think it's a lot more complicated than that, so we should just listen to the heads of these rescue teams by deciding whether or not these discussions will start. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u72	Mr. President. I was gonna come in on a few things here at the end. I just want to make it clear, though it has often been done, that we have, of course, promoted law enforcement in this country much over the past few years, but we are still on that road. Because of the information about the rescue forces and the overload, it's right behind us. A senator that this is not necessarily because of foreign tourists. I was referring directly to it, and I specifically drew it out because it surprised me. In view of the discussion, you have somehow had the impression that the pressures on the rescue force are especially for tourists, but at least According to the person I've talked to, it doesn't seem to be, but it's exactly what it is. A senator comes on all the other projects, winters and jobs and only us who are doing all kinds of things and getting us in trouble. I just agree with that. A senator's concern is that this conversation with the rescue forces is important. I may be here to refer specifically to those who are in charge of them, but I think that the key is that all such changes or discussions are the rest of them by means of the rescue forces themselves because, of course, this is all self-proper and should be totally on their terms. Of course, the discussion about stress on the employer is also important, and you need to listen to it. So to reiterate this case about the portent, I find that way incredibly powerful because you hit so many birds in that fight. This is an efficient route. This is accompanied by national policies, increased safety, improved quality, and improved tourism experience as they examine the nature of the country. That's why I feel positive, and I'm happy with the priority that's been in strengthening the defense. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u73	A respectable president. Last February, a private room, a prosecuting and innovation agency and other members of the Communicator Conference in the Earth's Environment. The purpose of the seminar was to arouse a company in the earth's heat and energy industry to consider the importance of knowledge and intelligence and the protection of minds for the competitiveness of industry. It was shown in the case of the director of a private office that Icelanders have no patents on the use of aquifers and have no such permission in progress. However, there are 45 foreign applications in progress and there are 16 patents in this field active in this country. They're all owned by foreign parties. I was one of those who feel that it is the basis for continuing economic growth. I know that patents are not a universal measure of innovation, but they are essential for innovation and investment in many areas. Discussion of the lack of patents by the Icelandic people is not new. It has been identified in the foreign assessments of the research and innovation environment in Iceland as being a weak link. Many things are done here very well, and in general, we are doing well when it comes to innovation. The support environment of innovation here is good and practical. But when it comes to a number of personal releases, it seems that reform is needed. In addition, I have to add that knowledge and experience with Icelanders are and have been exported, and even part of our foreign policy and part of our contribution to development, where we run the Earth's School of the United Nations University here. In view of this, I have a direct inquiry to the highest level. Travel, industrial and innovation ministers and I ask three questions: Does a minister worry about the development that Icelands have no patents in the field of eco-efficiency while foreign people have registered considerable of such private secrets in this country? Does the government or minister have the goal of increasing the number of Icelandic patents in order to further increase the competitiveness of the country? What methods does the government use to promote the protection of Icelandic scientists and cowards by applying for patents?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u74	Mr. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for the inquiry. This is an important matter involving the interaction of patents and innovations. The senator's inquiry has three questions, and I will answer them here. One question asks whether a minister is concerned about the trend that Icelanders have no patents in the field of eco-efficiency while foreign workers have registered considerable of such private secrets in the country. So there is an answer to the fact that huge growth has occurred in a number of personal cover - ups in the world in recent years. Foreign enterprises, both private and public, have increasingly applied for patents in this area of the country. At the same time, Icelandic companies have not been able to apply for patents in the field of geologic inventions, either here on land or on a global level. In answer to the question, it is my opinion that this situation poses a threat. As a result, we have every reason to be on guard. In general, a record of the human rights of others in this country can affect the freedom of Icelandic companies to act. Taking into consideration the concept of a structured and targeted use of the patent system, this risk can be greatly reduced. We need to be aware of the fact that in the knowledge created by research and development work on the surface of the land, there is an enormous value. It's created Iceland with a competitive prelude. If that knowledge is not protected, others can make practical use of Icelandic research and development work without any return to Iceland. I recently covered these matters with the director of a private living room. Our conclusion is that there is still an enormous opportunity to employ Icelandic intelligence in the geologic sector, and one of the strongest ways to do so is by means of careful protection of minds. Such protection can create a basis for a new source of income, provide incentive for increased funding for research and development work, and be an important link in the export of Icelandic intelligence, such as the driving force. A senator came in. The question two asks whether the government or the minister has the goal of increasing the number of Icelandic patents to further the competitiveness of the country. The ultimate answer to that question is yes. The Government Treaty emphasizes that innovation and the practicality of intelligence are one of the most important criteria for a wide range of employment and a strong competitive position. During the following months, we will shape a global innovation policy for Iceland in close collaboration with the industry and the scientific community and will already be preparing that work. In the future work, special emphasis will be put on the goal of increasing the number of Icelandic patents to further increase the competitiveness of the country. In this context, it is also true that in 2016 the government produced a special idealism. Work in harmony with it, with the goal of aiming for a mentalized Iceland in 2022. Our present situation encourages us to do more and to promote greater power in this group of litigators. The question three asks what methods the government uses to promote the protection of human minds and scientists in the United States by applying for patents. The answer is that the government has various tools to support the growth of Icelandic patents in a variety of ways. Will be further examined and implemented for work on the construction of the above - mentioned innovation policy. One approach would be, for example, To require active intellectual protection in the innovation support systems and through competitive funds. It should be of great importance to ensure that the best use of public funds provided for competitive funds is to make a requirement for research as a means of registration or conscious protection of mental rights. You see, it's all about making an informed decision, going over what you have in your hands and seeing what your conclusion is, that you're at least informed. Already, in some cases sponsors are asked about their software policies. Strength could be increasingly noted as the possible protection and the use of mental powers. For example, technology's fund provides a special patent. However, they cover only part of their private secret process and have been suggested that they be strengthened. It should also be noted that reimbursement at research and development costs can cover the cost of the patent process and that it will act as an incentive for starting with a patent application. Research shows that patents encourage innovation and that there is a link between the number of patents and investments in research and development work. It has been shown that companies who own and use imagination gain more money, have more employees, and usually pay more than other companies. [[The president calls.]] So it's a big thing to work to take a mind - protection firm in this country, to increase the knowledge and understanding of employment in the possibilities of mental protection, and to encourage increased use of these opportunities to protect competition. I think there's a lot of interests involved, and there's a certain wake-up call to take place, but I also think it's possible that it's happening right now. I've already had a meeting with the director of a private secret office where we've considered these matters and what ways might be an improvement. There are many factors here to consider. I'd like to finally celebrate. A senator brings this matter to the Hall of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u75	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Ministers very much for the answers and share with her that I think there's every reason to be on guard, as I think it would be. A minister has spoken. You see, it is very important that we protect the technology and knowledge available in Iceland in the field as there is not only business opportunities in it but also our foreign policy and what we have to offer in foreign affairs. We're not a big country, but we have a lot to make. We've reached a very high level of equality. That's one of the things other countries look to us with. We have also reached deep levels of geothermal activation. I think we need to protect our identity. I especially welcome the reply of a minister in the matter of establishing a comprehensive policy in innovation. I would like to encourage her to perform that assignment. It's very good to also hear that professional life is part of it, I think it's very important. It's like the highest. A minister entered them is one of the major aspects of the administrative work and realizes that they all agree on the importance of innovation. Then I'll come back because patents and intellectual protection are a big part of it. Over the course of time, Icelandic authorities have often found it expensive and perhaps not quite worth protecting their knowledge by private secrets, but those who have taken those paths have proved it and proved that it is worth and really important, when the invention is of that nature, of course, it is bound to do so, to protect these ideals. It has been shown that the companies that have achieved the longest part of it enjoy it fully.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u76	Mr. President. Thanks again for this discussion. That's what I wanted to say because of what I was doing. A senator only came to the expense of a certain misunderstanding, not at the moment. A senator keeps the cost from the discussion. He's spoken very highly and exaggerated. Of course, the cost of patenting valuable knowledge is very small when compared with the potential cost if freedom to act is impaired and if you are considering the opportunities to take advantage of such patents. Of course, selling something that does not belong to man is not possible. I think that knowledge and that awakening are very important. You see, it has to be done in a wide variety of ways. It has to be present with scientists. It needs to be present with the pioneers. It's just as important to be present with investors. There are investors who actually invest only after verifying that a patent is present. It is interesting when various pioneers are visited that this point varies greatly from company to company. You can see that many new companies are very strong in this. This can usually be attributed to a person with experience elsewhere from another company who has worked very hard in this business. Of course, it's all important, especially if you look at the seawater line, like, even though we're here for the earth, but in all kinds of seafood companies, we just have the best technology in the world, and it's absolutely essential that we have the patents on this technology because, as I say, people can't sell what they don't have. I appreciate the inquiry, and I hope we'll discuss this more in the future here and elsewhere.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u77	A respectable president. The request that I make to see if a minister plans to use any kind of work performed in 2008-⇩2015 to prepare legislation on the Free Associations and Self-President Services that work for the greater good. This work led to the proposal of a bill for a community law to the public good at the 2016 Council of the 145th legislature. It was recommended for the bill and districts, but it was not time to work with the bill for the Economic and Business Committee. The 2008 work started with the initiative of the public population, i.e. The greater public, the party of the Third Sector. In that area, a number of people are engaged in unselfish work in a variety of organizations. For the sake of our community, our financial group and the self - interest agencies are doing an enormously important job. There are many cases of governments hiding such social organizations or institutions from fulfilling certain social projects and supporting them in their work by sponsoring, indignities, or treaties for specific tasks. The bill was aimed, not to establish rules for all free societies, but only for the defined public - welfare organization, where a social organization would be set apart from another organization. Many people have come to realize that the preparation has been disappointed that nothing has been heard of this since the fall of 2016. On the other hand, I have found that with the bill, I have been trying to solve problems that were actually not there. At any rate, I believe it is reasonable to believe that a clear legal environment exists as a basis for cooperation between the government and the public community so that there are frames and guidelines for governments to use when supporting or preparing solutions to certain social projects. This should increase transparency in the provision of public funds and help those working for the greater good to understand and meet their requirements. I'm wondering if it's the highest. Travel, industrial and innovation ministers have studied all the work there was to lay the foundation and shape their position on the need for clearer legal frames in this field and the continuation of the work that has been taking place for ten years. That's why, first of all, do I ask: Is Ministers think there is a need for changes in society's legal environment to support their activities? If so, will the Minister provide a bill for such changes this year? And second of all: Will the Ministers bring up a comprehensive bill for a community to the general goods in the terms of the election?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u78	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for the inquiry, which targets changes in the legal environment of a community to the general welfare of the community. Free companions, as we all know a great and vital part of society, are essential to the well - being of this strong and indispensable strand in our community. To answer a question, why? I've been studying all this work and meeting with both the Ministry specialists and meeting with the NGOs themselves, the greater good, about this bill and the bill and all. Today, there are many laws that have to do with the activities of a social organization for the common good, although there is no special law on such an organization. Such measures include, for example, Find tax laws, accounting laws and firmies. The law of No. 19/1988, on fund and organisations acting according to a confirmed organizational registry, and on law No. 33/1999, about auto-employed institutions. The latter law covers self-employing institutions, which have similar goals and social organizations that work on the public welfare of the people. In May 2016, then, the current industrial and commercial minister proposed a presentation at the General bill for a social hearing. The bill was based on the work of a committee assigned to prepare legislation on the free social organizations and on the social security services. The bill from May 2016 continues to be considered in the Ministry, and we have recently met with representatives of the Allied Department on that matter. In my opinion, the bill has some advantages. We agree on the objective of the bill, which is to ensure the best contribution to the activities of such partners. However, it was indicated that the bill stated that the sentence of a universal law on a social group to the public good might be burdensome to such a group, and especially to smaller communities and subversive organizations, including the subversive community. Since such associates may find it difficult to meet such standards. Such laws can therefore be inhibited by members of the community for the greater good and limit their ability to determine their internal organization. In view of this and the comments given when the bill was presented in May 2016, I have assigned the Ministry Department officials to consider the best way to promote and trust Community activities to the public within current law. The objective, however, is to ensure that, in the best way, the work of a community to the greater good without any barriers or restrictions of any kind. This work has been accomplished for some time and is done in good collaboration with the World Health Organization and is decided to expect later this year. As a result, to answer a question. Senator, I'm going to decide whether to submit a full-scale bill for a P.R., during the election season. At the end of this article, we should point out that two of the main proposals made by the Commission that have already been legalized by the bill. The General agreed for over a year's changes in tax laws that now allow companies to strengthen a public welfare organization up to a total of 0.75 percent and to withdraw it from income taxation stocks. This ratio was earlier 0.5% and was significantly increased by this adjustment, just as the committee had suggested. Second, genetic tax from gifts to public goods was canceled, which was also proposed by the Committee. These are important progressive steps that are important, and we will continue to work on finding ways to support the work of a community organization for the greater good. Finally, I would like to reiterate the importance of public good organizations and that their cooperation with the Ministry has been good and I expect it to continue.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u79	V.E.G. President. We're discussing the legal environment of a public society. I agree with the lead leader and the highest. Minister, this organization serves a very important function. It is clear that if a government fund was to finance all the activities that are being done and that volunteer work and motivation would be a great deal of money. I welcome the changes that have brought on tax law to the inquisition for this organization, to the highest degree. The minister came in. I'm asking the highest. Whether or not there is a complete summary of the procedure of such events in other northern countries and neighboring countries, whether or not it has been compiled, the highest. A minister knows that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u80	V.E.G. President. Thank you for your excellent discussion. It is so that we cannot ignore it. All of us know that our community is a free organization that is extremely important, and many Icelanders have shared in their work. It'll be appreciated for the money. We know their power. For ten years, work has been done to clarify their legal environment. I'm glad something's made up and something's happened. It's very good to know. Because it is important to make sure that this is the best thing to do. But I would like to encourage us, as we go and go on to this work, that we will not cause her to become too entangled by a small group of associates, so that we are too entangled in their work, as we sometimes tend to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u81	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Travel, industrial and innovation ministers for answers and debates. Congress members include the discussion. I'm happy, as the minister's case showed, that the work environment of the P.R.R.R.R. is being considered, and I'd like to impress a minister not to overdo this. As noted, the work of volunteer workers in this community in general is of great importance. I would also like to point out that the reviews on the bill back then were generally positive, although there were some points that needed further consideration. It was also noted that there is an organization that had not come to the preparatory work that may be just beginning a conversation. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if it's been done. I'll give you an example of an ISI organization and maybe more. I agree that, of course, it is very important that all the information on the activities of a volunteer organisation and even support various social institutions in one place, on the conditions to be met, and on what will be involved in such organizations.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u82	Mr. President. I thank you for this discussion and keep in mind that we agree on the objective of the bill, which is to ensure the best setting for this operation, but, at least, we agree on the objective of the bill. Partly, with a bang. paritaprevir My Þórunn Egilsdóttir, who remained this show. So I have assigned employees to work more closely on this and see how we can achieve goals within the current law. It was noted that the bill could be burdensome for members of society, especially smaller communities and botanical organizations, since it may be difficult for them to meet formalities and to comply with such laws. In the North, there is generally no particular social legislation. It's in Finland, but it's not. About what question? paritaprevir Willum Þór Þórsson, son of Thor, can't answer it. I don't know if there's a special assessment, if there's one, and if there's one. But I'm sure you'll find that out. Other than that, I thank you for your excellent discussions.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u83	Mr. President. I decided to follow up on the release of a synonym that was adopted two council members ago. The first carrier was then a cool man. paritaprevir The Valgerður of Gunnarsdóttir's daughter and the party arrangement turn to the construction of Braun in Oxnadal. This is one of the cases that are often lost when we enter the Ministry. Of course, there have been things that have happened, elections, and so forth, that the project has at least failed to reach the point where we know about it. The purpose of this question is to know what the situation is and whether a minister intends to do something. It was noted at the time when the committee discussed that building a cultural site, linking history, and cultural tourism is one of the important factors in the country. It helps to ensure distribution of tourists and, of course, exchange of cultural resources to both local and foreign visitors. We know many of the enchanted nature that surrounds Jonah's mansion. It's relatively close to urban areas, so you can maintain a variety of living collections and educational activities. I think the committee worked out pretty well in this process, but the change was to internalise the Environment and Resource Ministry because, of course, the matter was primarily under the Ministry of Education and Culture, i.e. The proposal as it was submitted. But there is evidence that the community and those who claim to have this work can continue to work only with the coming of the State. The 1933 apartment building was repaired around 2006. There was a scholar's apartment and a cultural firm. But now the house and business work is so much so that no further work can be done or continued unless some decisions and support come from the State. That's why it was important for me to follow this procedure and hear a minister say that it is not absolutely certain that the case would be conducted within the Ministry. It can also be asked, in view of the fact that the matter was taken up by two consonants, as it is a peaceful territory, whether a conversation has taken place between these advisers, and whether it is not absolutely certain that we will continue to support this project.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u84	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this good inquiry. As the senator rightly checked, Braun is appointed to Oxnadal for a special place in national and national history. The contribution made by the poet and scholar Jónas the Hallgrímsson of Hallgim to education and culture is praiseworthy and very important that we uphold it. In a letter dated June 14, 2017, the Ministry was issued a resolution on the construction of a prison in Oxnadal approved at the General Assembly on May 31, 2017. The Ministry had sent the General General and Education Committee on the Council of Congress when its release was in preparation for which it was identified, among other things, that the earth Braun in Axnadal had been declared to be a peace - informed environmental minister in 2007 as a public resident. The purpose of the Declaration of Peace would have been to protect the area for curfews, natural inspections, and education, but its protection was based on the wide variety of landscapes and natural systems, especially earthenware. It was then noted that the Society, who was the owner of the earth, was in the majority - owned Hörgjörg, and therefore had a special obligation to care for the community and the people. With reference to the above, the Ministry felt most reasonable that in the proposal it was suggested that the General concluded to hide the minister of education and culture and the Environment and Resource Minister this joint task in cooperation with Hörgjörður and the landlord. By a letter dated last November to the Environment and Resource Minister, the office of the Ministry was requested to cooperate with a representative of the Ministry of Education and Culture for further progress of the current Senate resolution. A respectable president. At the time of the question of the why. Since 1996, at the birth of Jónas the son of Hallgrímsson, I cannot help but mention the Icelandic language that has been held throughout the country. As the Senate knows, there are many opportunities for a wide variety of countries in schools and institutions, and the awards for Jónas the son of Hallgrímsson, as well as for the celebration of the day. On this day, we recall the national poet, who has a special place in the awareness and culture of the people of the land. It is urgent to keep the memory of Jónas the son of Hallgrímsson ever up and reach a new generation. The agreement of the synopsis here at the General Assembly to build up for the Oxna Valley, the birthplace of Jónas, is the result. The next steps in the case are to introduce the Ministry's proposals to further build up the site in the months to come. We appreciate the work of Jónas, son of Hallgrímsson, and we will take it into account. I find it very important that we associate more fully with our culture and tourism. I think that one of the goals of this council resolution is to do so. A respectable president. I hope to have a good cooperation with the General Assembly on the implementation of this council resolution and further cooperation with the suggestions we are working on in the Ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u85	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir for following this case. It is clear that Jónas Hallgrímsson is strongly rooted in the national soul, and we need to maintain his mark, and we need to get information and knowledge about him through to future generations, or they'll all be lost. Part of it is building up and strengthening the work at Braun in Oxnadal, and I'm actually looking forward to the suggestions the Minister mentioned earlier, and we'll learn more about it in the near future. Jónas's ideals and ideals fit today, and his mottos and the Multitudes were useful, beautiful, and truth. Indeed, there is something that we can acquire in our modern times, and outside we are talking about tourism, culture - related tourism, which is certainly appropriate in that location.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u86	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. I think they're a little hairy. I have to admit it. However, it is stated that the Environment and Resource Ministry has been represented to carry out this project. The minister spoke of presenting plans in the following months. Then I ask if there has already been any consultation, since this is November and it is April, at the Waffen Squad in that work, and how it should be done. As I told you before, this small unit cannot survive such a operation or continue development except by the arrival of the state which, like the highest. A minister pointed out, is the largest owner in this area and this house. I'm asking if there's a deputy there. I'll agree with the highest. Minister, it is hardly possible to speak of Jónas without referring to the modern - day English language. I was an Icelandic high school teacher, and that day was one of better days, for on that day school is a very widely broken - up day, and the poet's memory is honored in many ways. That may be what he is more known today than for the natural connection, but he was, of course, a great naturalist. However, this must be made up of a real office and a shop that performs the services needed. We've got Snortoru, we've got Skull-free, Gloafrastein, Thorbergstation. We've done a lot of good in these matters. I think Jónas's next, and we can't drag it all too long.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u87	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for bringing up the matter of this council resolution, so we can review the details of the project. We'll cooperate with the local community, of course, because its inhabitants know the localities much better than the members of the Ministry. I just want to say to the House of Congress that it's very important that we do this well. This place has a special place in the minds of the people, and it is urgent that we do this properly. So I look forward to reporting the next steps when these suggestions will be ready at the Ministry, and we can review them, and we can do this well and safely.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u88	Mr. President. I'll direct you to the highest level. Secretary of State, following the news and coverage of Hick's, which was very needed and important to us here at the council, about the mobilization that included weapons. from the Atlanta Corporation, a Icelandic company. First of all, I'd especially like to commend the highest. The minister of state for his very firm stand on the chemical weapon attack this weekend in Syria, where he strongly objected to it, I think it's a very good example, and also how he has done so about the Skripal case in Britain when it came up. I think it's like things are supposed to be done. They speak clearly, and they send a clear message to the world around them. With regard to arms transport, we Icelanders have actually opposed air travel laws, 78 str. the layer of air travel that measures the preemptive ban on the use of weapons. Therefore, it is important that we hear the same clear instructions as in the cases I spoke about earlier, the chemical weapon attack in Syria, and the Skripal case in the United Kingdom. I'd like to ask you about the highest position. A minister who will soon handle these matters, but according to the news, there will be a compromise on the subject, i.e. The scope and management of weapons transport will be transferred from the Department of Transport to the Ministry of State. That is why it is important to know very clearly what your position is. The secretary of state is so far, whether or not it should be totally respected without exception to the article under the laws on air travel that represent the absolute prohibition of military transport. We are not talking about the terms and commitments we need to fulfill regarding NATO. We know exactly who they are. It doesn't mean that just mixing it into here, that's a completely different kind of thing, that is commitments that we will naturally meet in connection with our cooperation and our participation in NATO. The second is that we need to consider other moving activities. Then, according to the United States, we must have a clear view that we are not going to carry any kind of weapon. It must be followed. There must be a clear command from the Icelandic government on this matter, with no lobster or hap. I hope to the highest. A minister in it because he has a clear view of certain matters, some of which you may not always agree completely, but he is not an unconcerned man, and I would like to have his opinion on whether it is not natural that Iceland is an unreserved and unconcerned ban on any of its names, provided they are not on the side of the Atlantic Community.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u89	A respectable president. I would also like to thank you for the inquiry, but I would also like to point out that this very issue twice has been given a thorough withdrawal to the Foreign Affairs Committee, which the Senator knows very well, ended up on the committee, and in the media, where my position as well as the government has been held. At the same time, like a coop. A senator pointed out that it is the Department of Transport and Civil Affairs that provides an exception to the provision of air travel laws on the prohibition of military transport by Icelandic air traffic, not the State Department of State. The arrival of the Ministry of State is the result of reviews. A recent search was made to the State Department of State on the matter of reviews. Songs and rules do not apply to consultations or reviews of these ways, and this has been the case for years. Hv. A senator knows this very well, for that was also the case at the time. A senator had a seat in the government. In those days, military transfers, including some of them, were also performed. By means of an Icelandic pilots who were not given the law. Therefore, I believe that it is necessary to change and to express repeatedly my opinion that the State Department of State will take over all of this. Working within the administration board, including ... witha change in regulations and a change in how to act. This was introduced to a government meeting last week. In other words, the work is well along and will be introduced to the Foreign Affairs Committee in the near future. The new process, as well as the changing process, has become more apparent foreign appeals. Thus, the comments of the State Department have taken into account foreign policy, particularly human rights and humanitarian views, making sure that there is a compromise. I have also expressed my opinion that the Icelandic government must exercise caution in extramarital management of military transfers. In due course, the Ministry of State will simply evaluate each matter and look to the standards set out by the new regulations and regulations. Even there would be. See the legal conditions, international agreements, the quantity and nature of military evidence, the sender, the recipient, and the policy of foreign policy. Of course, there will be instances where all conditions are met and there will be no basis for allowing this to happen. It is important to keep in mind that military data can be of various ways and are far from just a weapon. Besides, there are very different weapons. Even so, military transfers are widely practiced and are, in fact, very common, including the U.S. in the North and among our fellow alliances and our friends people. We'll remember the discussion earlier this year, including to the Foreign Affairs Committee, that many European countries and Atlantic alliances have not only carried weapons to Saudi Arabia but also sold weapons there. These include Norway, Finland, and Sweden. The Norwegian Parliament has specifically concluded that there should not be a risk of carrying weapons to Saudi Arabia. In our case, there was an Icelandic pilot, not an Icelandic government, who carried and sold weapons to Saudi Arabia. I'm obviously not measuring it up, and I've repeatedly expressed myself in that situation, but here I have to make a clear distinction and watch the minimum in the discussion. Then I'd also like to mention that an absolute and utter ban on military transport might conflict with Iceland's commitment to international cooperation in defense and security. However, the principle of air travel is forbidden by arms transport, so there is no basis for change. If these cases are addressed to the Ministry of State, which suggests that the Ministry of State will always follow a precautionary approach to the parole board and make sure that all conditions are met if such provisions are granted, including the application of these provisions. taking into account Iceland's concerns on foreign affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u90	A respectable president. I welcome this inquiry. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir on course at the highest. Minister of state for arms transport and implementation of 78 st. fix air travel. I'd like to state that I've initiated a report request on the implementation of international commitments for the transport of weapons, and I expect it to reveal the information we need to address to address all the stones in this matter, for our own good, and when it comes to our international commitments on the terms of approval or provision for the use of arms transport. I want to say something, too. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín, the daughter of Gunnarsdóttir, when it comes to commending the highest. A minister for his condemnation of new attacks in Syria, where chemical weapons are highly suspected. This I think is good, and I expect to see more of that sort coming from him. And also that there will be a clear course and a vision, both the Minister and the Government, to condemn by any transfer, sale, and any kind of treatment of weapons, and thus to the Icelandic state and the government fulfill their international commitments, I hope they will, and in this matter we will go ahead by showing responsibility in action and by sticking to our international commitments for this matter. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u91	The president asks why. Councilmen respecting deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u92	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir for putting this inquiry on the program and hence this case. Thank you, too, the highest. Minister for his answers. In particular, I would like to welcome what was presented in the case of the minister that information is expected from the highest level. Transport and rural Ministers responsible for these air travel laws and hence, reserves, if any, on them. I would like to reiterate what has been presented here in this discussion that we were deeply disturbed by the news reports presented in the Icelandic company's publication on military data to Saudi Arabia. Many of us would like to lead the chance that these weapons would have landed in the terrible war zone there, and we all are shocked. I think it's very good for us to discuss whether this prohibition can be absolute and never to give an exception. But I also welcome what the Minister says that there is a change in operations to make a perspective in the Ministry of State.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u93	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you very much. The minister of state answers, but after identifying and listening and going back through the official words and the silentness, I tried to identify the political bitch in the words of a minister, and she's at the top. A minister who has received the matter to him intends to give an exception, certainly in view of international commitments. What else? A petition, which has been very high for two months inside the State Department, was not granted. In fact, one day it would be interesting to talk about it, and we in the position of government will. She's been down for two months inside the Committee because they didn't trust her to handle this on the grounds that this was part of a transport minister's table. All of this knows, but the request is primarily about our international commitment and the transport of weapons. Under all our international commitments, we write the highest. Secretary of state at any time. Hence, it was normal for the request to be addressed to the minister of foreign affairs, but the Independence Party prevented the full application of the report. All right. I can't help but analyze it that way, chief. The minister will have to correct me, that if and when it comes to the Ministry of State, the delivery will be granted to arms transport, according to each case. Each case will be reviewed, and it may be granted an exception. The principle will be that it is forbidden, but it may not be granted. We all understand in this room as I could now if there are exceptions on the basis of our international commitments and our military and security activities at NATO, but what else must come, from then on? That's what raises questions to my mind. Is it solely on the basis of our security and prevention activities and international commitments, or is there anything else? It's still open. [[The president calls.]] There's a clear answer here, and that's what we're asking. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u94	A respectable president. There is some misunderstanding when they say that this is part of the Department of Transport. You know the Presidential decision, this is the Department of Transport. And if you think the Ministry of State is some sort of Internal Affairs at international commitments in all of the Council's Council, that's new news. I'll take into account, then, that I had no idea that it was the job of the State Department to monitor all other problems when it comes to international commitments. [[Up front.]] To put this into perspective, they divide the international agreements we have made thousands of people. I'll mention the EEA deal; the commitments we've accepted there, the types there, into the thousands. I don't remember if they're ten thousand. Most of it is on the State Department board. That's why I didn't quite understand what was going on. Senator. It's very simple. Of course, we are always working within the international commitments, and when these issues are presented, they are presented at ease. State Department. It is very important that everyone be aware of the rules and standards involved. That's all there is to it. I'm telling you clearly, and I've told you before that we should be careful in giving an exception. In accordance with the nature of the situation, we need to apply the international commitments and contracts we have made. I think it's very important. The Management Board will consider this matter carefully when it comes to principles and guidelines so that everyone is in the same place as it is. I can't hear any differences between those here who have spoken in terms of being careful about these matters, being careful about giving out extras. Then the next step is to take into account how we can have these guidelines and the rules of action as clearly as possible, so that there are just as few doubt as possible. This is something we need to talk about; I, if it's looking, we need to talk. State Department. The clearer the rules and standards, therefore, are better.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u95	Mr. President. For the Council, there is a bill to correct a change in public penalties, No. 19/190, prohibition on male circumcision. What I want to talk to you about, especially at the highest. Foreign Minister at this point is a reaction abroad because of the bill and the Icelandic interests involved it. The bill goes out of the way of banning boys and that anyone who performs such an operation will be imprisoned for up to six years. The bill is very controversial and has received a lot of attention here at home and abroad. In many cases, that attention has been negative. It has thus been noted in the reviews of the European Council of Churches and the Council of Catholic Bishops that Iceland would have a foreign spirit and that Jews and Muslims were not welcome to Iceland. The circumcision of boys has a strong connection with the Jewish religion and Islam. The Jews and Muslims around the world are circumcised and have established tradition in many communities. In 2010, the World Health Organization released a report describing child care as one of the world's most common and oldest surgeries that up to one third of the world's males are circumcised. If the bill is approved, Iceland is the only country in the world where a boy's circumcision would be banned and the penalty would be up to six years incarcerated. In view of this and the negative reports that have been received abroad about the bill, it is necessary to discuss the impact of billing, if law, how to communicate in Iceland with foreign countries where there is a rich tradition for the circumcision of boys such as Israel and Islam, but Islam is the second largest religion in the world. In addition, about half of the men in the United States are circumcised. It is also necessary to discuss whether the bill, if law, can affect Iceland's foreign trade, business interests and competitiveness abroad, come from foreign tourists to the country, and receive refugees. What I really want to talk about here at the highest. The minister of foreign affairs is whether the Israeli government contacted the State Department for the bill. If so, what was the message of the Israelite government? Can it affect the relationship between Iceland and Israel? It is also important to learn whether other countries have contacted the Ministry on matters as well as religions, groups, or persons from abroad and what their messages were. More important, it is important to ask whether a minister believes that the matter could affect the business interests of the Icelandic government and the Icelandic legal bodies and in what way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u96	A respectable president. First, I'd like to thank a captain for calling attention to this case, which has many sides and has brought attention to the cliffs. The response of the Israeli government, other countries, and organizations is asked because of the proposed bill and the impact on Iceland's interests. However, in both Europe and North America, and have been discussed in the media. The reactions have been strong but balanced. The representatives of large and respected Jewish organizations and, in fact, other religious groups, have visited the ambassadors of Iceland in Denmark, Germany, Norway, France, Belgium, Britain, and the United States. A campaign against the Icelandic government has not been encouraged, as we have seen in other heat issues, and a direct response from the public in these countries has not been very strong. All who have associated foreign services with this issue have been advised to contact the Council directly and to be seen in the scope of foreign narratives that many have followed the procedure in this way. The trade is a variety of things, but most of them are linked to being critical of the bill, which seems to conflict with religious freedom and to the loss of discrimination against certain religious and cultural groups. During my meeting with the United Nations Supreme Court of Human Rights last February, he highlighted the importance of maintaining religious freedom and working against the Jewish and Muslim hatreds that have, unfortunately, gone on increasing in the Western world. The Icelandic government wants Iceland to remain in the leadership of the states when it comes to human rights, and we have to take a look at this matter in that light. Iceland is not an island, despite our being an island. If the bill remains unchanged in the law, it could have a profound effect in other countries that could promote prejudice and discrimination. Also, we must not forget that while our history is in many respects self - centered when it comes to religion and background, it contains factors we are by no means proud of, as when Jews were almost sent out from here to death in the wake of World War II, although others had come to their rescue. Clearly, the circumcision of boys is deeply rooted in the religious and cultural life of Jews and Muslims, but also independent of religion, as in the United States and many African countries. So this is not a small perimeter group, but a group that could hold about one third of men. As a result, if the bill remains in law, you might expect a more severe reaction than it has been so far and not rule out that Iceland will be put in a negative light among many people. This could affect less - than - short - term interests, even though it is not simple to assess the impact on individual business interests. Moreover, this is a case that does not really have much meaning in this country. Therefore, there is a problem with the lawgiver here taking steps that others have avoided taking for good reasons. On the other hand, I have a full understanding of the objectives of the bill and its purpose in the child's rights, but I believe that it should be a careful return to the earth. As regards the response of the Israeli government, an ambassador of Israel came to Iceland and settled in Norway until last March and met with members of Congress and Ministers. His business was even. talking about a Senate bill. I personally met the ambassador, and we discussed this matter with other people. Of course, such a conversation is confidential, but the ambassador gave himself an opportunity in the media to promote the stand of the Israelite government. The ambassador did not express himself in his official comments or at a meeting with me that the matter would have a negative impact on the relationship between Iceland and Israel. They have increased well and have increased in recent years, knowing that Iceland is like an established democracy in which members of the Parliament's right to promote Congress is part of the democracy. However, there is no secret, and the ambassador was absolutely clear that the Israelite government does not embrace the bill in its entire form. That doesn't have to be surprising. Some other countries in Europe and North America have shown interest in the matter of Congress and have inquired about it without committing any special judgment there on or establishing official views. Finally, I want to reiterate that I have a clear understanding of the bill's goals and that those who carry the bill only have good intentions. To me, it's about finding the balance and taking steps this way, as the North countries have done. There I also refer to a review of the State Department, which was introduced to the council shortly before the Passover.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u97	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's son's request for this inquiry and the highest. Minister for his answers. In fact, taking this discussion to the highest level is very interesting. Secretary of State, but we have spent considerable time discussing the bill as such in this council hall. I think I was there for the more part of that discussion and participated in it. I also think it is important that there have been many reports, and it is true that there are surely a historic number of foreign reports that have been received on this matter, many of which are positive and very many have been contacted and that they are being discussed at the General Assembly of the Icelanders. I'm one of those who claims to have a complete understanding of the goal of the bill. I have also said that it needs to be handled well and that the discussion needs to grow. For my part, I'm proud to be part of a National Congress in Iceland who has the guts to take up a discussion on controversial issues. [[The president calls.]] I don't think we should compromise that discussion. But as we have discussed, it may well be that the matter needs to grow further in the discussion, but I think that we are most agreed on the subject, i.e. the right child. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u98	Madam President. I think the matter is important, for it illustrates very well the fundamental right of our senators to present no matter what else. I also participated in the discussion, and I have admitted that I feel that this situation needs to be handled with caution. I believe it even requires further development, more discussion and careful review of it by scholars, further development, etc. I agree with the highest perspective. A minister, on the one hand, is a child's rights and other viewpoints that the main foreign comments have been about. I would like to make it clear that we must not allow business interests to rule out just what our policy is in at home. For example, for example, I would like to mention a very firm stand between the then foreign minister and the Russian client for the affairs of Ukraine. I think it's important in spite of much of the interests they had, including in the realm of a fishing field. The big thing is that we were there, among other things, defending our territory and more. [[The president calls.]] Then we have to be able to set up independent policies, take sides here completely independent of business interests. [[The president calls.]] We need to look to our rights as members of the council and then to the community in each case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u99	Madam President. This is an interesting inquiry because the issue is about the child's rights, number one, two and three, but here we are moving the discussion into these business interests and using the limited access or resource we have, this special discussion, to discuss particularly with foreign ministers on business interests in this unique matter. Maybe I'd like to ask the highest. The minister of foreign affairs, because he speaks so strongly in this matter, and it can be heard over and over again, he speaks so conclusively to the interests involved, i.e. that there are strong people out in a world that doesn't want to see this become reality in Iceland: Was there any pressure from Israel's ambassador on the matter? It's just gonna have to be clear. The way a minister talks is very decisive. And then he agrees with it all in the rest: yes, and then the baby's rights. No, it's the number one, the two and the three about the child's rights. Let's not get Iceland's business involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u100	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss a request related to a bill in the General Information and Education Committee for discussion on the prohibition against male circumcision. In the discussion, it has been observed that there have been an extraordinary number of comments from abroad on this subject. The reviews are about 100 and can be said to be two factors, one of the rights of children, and I think we all agree that they are inaccessible, but then you will be aware of the fact that this is related to religion, culture, awareness of state, and historical awareness of more than human beings. That's why I'd like to agree with those who have spoken here and the highest. The minister made it important to approach this matter with more dignity and tenderness than often before. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u101	Madam President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Secretary of state for very detailed answers and careful review of the matter. I'm thinking that they'll be watching every side of it. I was interested in what the minister said, that he had had a conversation with the United Nations Human Rights Chief, who focused heavily on working against the prejudices of Muslims and Jews, and that the belief that if the bill was approved, it could have a profound negative impact on the subject and could fuel prejudice. If it is accepted, you can expect a more severe reaction than it has been at this point. To me, it is very important that it has been presented here in a council hall in connection with this matter, for it is now in international relations that humans cannot imagine how things could develop. They can develop very quickly, even in a negative way in some cases. We saw what happened here when Reykjavíkurburg approved a ban on Israel, which caused quite a shock, and the city officials were running away from that conclusion. Everything was embarrassing and difficult for us. I also want to thank you for what the minister said and showed up here, and I'm glad it turns out that Iceland is going to create some special place in this matter. Should we be some crusaders in the foreign field in this matter? Moral apostles and publishers? [[The president calls.]] A nation that has just fallen from economic collapse? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-09-45.u102	A respectable president. Now it's so bad. A senator asks me questions and I must be informed as a minister, and that is what I do. About a question why. paritaprevir Jón Þór, son of Ólafsson, who I thought was somewhat special and his suggestion to see if the ambassadors of Israel or any other ambassadors have put me under pressure, the answer is no, quite no. Absolutely clear. What I covered, however, is the reaction the foreign service has received since this case. I don't know why. A senator wanted me to keep my mouth shut. [[Foreplay has to do with Jewish hates in Iceland...]] Now, a respectable president, except to observe a media coverage, it has been said that people have been concerned that if this case was to be done, it would be water on a mill force of extremes. A few weeks later, there was a news report on the State Radio regarding the extremes that feed on Jews and Muslims. I'm counting on it. The Parliamentary Committee and Congress are very careful about the whole thing, because, as I mentioned, Iceland is not an island. What we do has an effect. It's not about business interests. It is about what others consider, right or wrong, freedom of religion, and human rights. And what we do is noticed. This matter has been given much attention. I'm encouraging it. Councilmen taking a good look and reviewing the matter objectively, for that is the case with us whether we like it or not. If I'm asked here at the council, I'm going to try and answer as clearly as possible. That's what I did in this case, and I haven't been put under any pressure from any other person. However, as shown in my reply, there has been a talk between me and others about this matter. I believe I've given that information clearly from me at the council and nation.
