ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u1	There have been letters from the following petitioners requesting every time to provide written answers to queries: from a marine economist and agri-gri-gri-gritary for the request on deck. 839, on the bioavailability of disabled people, from Vilhjálmur the Year's Árnason, and on the threshing floor. 912, on cross-requisitions in the fishing road, from the Þorsteinn of Víglundsson. From travel, industrial, and innovation ministers for the purposes of spell inquiry. 840, about the bioavailability of disabled people, from Vilhjálmur Árnason. From the health minister for the trim. 915, about typhus, from The Halla Signý of Kristjánsdóttir's Daughter. Finally, from the Environment and Resource Minister for the Säpon. 919, about the risk of pollution by salting and hazardous chemicals in the vicinity of the capital area, from the Ólafur Ísleifsson, and on the threshing floor. 958, for the strength of projects and for the operation of the minister's affairs, from Friðbjörg Flandrafjörður, the daughter of Elíasdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u2	Before the session, the president would like to remind us that votes are expected after the rest of the discussion on the 2nd part of the program, i.e. to end a special discussion about equality and trust. It can be expected to be around. 14.45. In addition, votes are expected in the afternoon or under the evening on the program issues of 5 and 6 followed by events followed by new meetings and their arrangements.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u3	A respectable president. Perhaps there is reason to first congratulate the winners of rural elections, new rural authorities, and career success and thank you for the good work of those who have left their chairs. In fact, I'm going to discuss what goes by most of us, that's the terrible news we hear about accidents that we're having on the country day after day, and we can hear about regularly on the news. It frightens you when police and medical personnel, Hostage, and health care professionals need to get injured people across the country and get ready to receive badly injured people. It's getting like the usual bread. We're getting too many such news. In addition, volunteers and rescue teams who carry out these activities almost daily throughout the country, people who do other jobs, do their daily work as we do, but they have to be ready at any time to jump when help is needed. It is usually during unchristian times, in the middle of the night, that accidents occur. I wondered that rescue workers have to finance the operation themselves by selling fireworks to help with society. Since my arrival in 2013, discussions have been made to pay for tourists. We do well to get ahead of ourselves in getting paid even if there was no other way but to run the cost of society's survival to save people who suffer accidents, who are tourists in most cases. I think it would be a good start to start in the fall to put in a bill for reimbursement on tourists to finance this operation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u4	A respectable president. I'd like to spend a few words on fish farming. I've had quite a few conversations about the recent issues, including those of the Watch Tower Society. An excellent journey across the country in the leading part of the rural election and discussed these matters in many places. I have seen that in the past few months, and in years this discussion has been too much of a hole. Somehow, we've put ourselves in the holes that those who promote environmental ideas are opposed to fish farms, but they don't have to be. In this regard, I want to look at what Norway has done in recent decades. They are probably nations at the head of fish farming. Norwegians are now heading for a fivefold increase in their fish farming production, but all of this production is to be under the strict environmental requirement. You can build fish farming well, but you can follow the highest environmental requirements. The report was also noteworthy received from the Norwegians in terms of fish farming licenses and the resources paid by the Norwegian State Fund. We need to look closely at how these matters are handled and whether we can clearly record their tactics. In recent decades, Norwegians have turned to corners in this sector, and we can learn from them by looking to what they are doing today. Such work could be in harmony with the sector itself. She's in Norway. Today, many of the owners of Icelandic fish farms also operate fish farms in Norway, where they agree on environmental structure. Therefore, there should be a slow return to such an agreement.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u5	Mr. President. In the ground, the election turns, or should at least To do so, about the future. After the end of the district election, it is worthy to ask questions about the future and congratulate the newly elected government. I would like to believe that most people who volunteer to work in politics have a good desire to guide and benefit their community. We should be glad that there are many who are willing to make an offer to the work and especially in small communities where the need is very near. Today, more parts are being developed, and in some places, they work well. We will see if those with whom we are in charge are part of our rural society, with the big words and priorities of money in the highest local work. I encourage the people on negotiations to manage their rural society in order to keep their priorities in the interests of equality and equality. It is important to be supportive of children's families, e.g. by free elementary school, as well as by remembering to use the United Nations Children's Covenant to guide any decision that affects children. More than that, it is important to cherish the elderly and make sure that they do not have a carefree night of life. The government has provided a five-year national budget, with enormous emphasis on building wood. In the period, investing for 338 billion. High attention is given to health care, including by strengthening health care and health care facilities as well as by building nursing areas in the scattered regions. The priorities are clear, that ordinary people are allowed access to better health care and better welfare systems. There are also much emphasis on school, transportation, and much more. Farmers also invest in boxing, basic schools, athletes, and many other things, and all of them play together. In order for society to succeed, good luck is needed. The most important role of both governments is to ensure and optimise the well - being of the country, both short and long - term. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u6	Mr. President. In fishing, we have limited foreign investments. Now it's a field of employment that's shot him back in, the tourism. Investor investments have so far been the most important domestic. Now changes could be in front of you. Then I ask, " Do I encourage unlimited foreign investments in tourism? ' Is that a political harmony? I ask because there is now a large and careful English brochure from GAMA, a well - known financial advisory firm. He's supposed to attract foreign investors. The contents are truly positive and promising: Iceland is the land of opportunity, the main theme of that brochure. Tolerance and access control, other than high prices or the number of flights to the country, there are remote terms. I'm sorry. Of course, we're supposed to direct the growth of this article based on sustainable development and tolerability and to plan on a wide range of access controls, but not to rely on prices, even yokes, or so many flights to the country. I encourage a congregation to study this brochure and to begin the necessary discussion of foreign investments in tourism. I also encourage the government to speed up and correct policy development in a travel service offered in cooperation with the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u7	Mr. President. We have been concerned here in this hall, as is true in most places, with regard to working against any kind of fraud, tax collections, and so forth. This morning at the Economic and Business Committee, we were in charge of two such cases. On the one hand, the bill on tax charges and tax evasion; it's highly tax control and tax research. On the other hand, the bill from the highest. Minister of Justice on money laundering. Of course, the bills are not faultless, as they do. We'll take them into account and hopefully make the adjustments required by the committee. But what a thrill it would be if we were similarly interested in thinking about how we would be spending the money that comes in a common box, just as we would be working against tax evasion and tax frauds, i.e. how we handle government funds. You see, when we decide to finance, for example. The health system, the raising of funds, may we not wonder what we are getting for the extra money. The reason is that we have fallen into the trap of making a financial decision, not just the health system, but that it applies to the education system, according to the needs of the system rather than the needs of those in need of the ministry. The healthcare system is financed by e.g. Not on the grounds of the health insurance, all of us, but from the system itself. [[The president calls.]] We need to turn this around and start thinking about the needs of the health care professionals and allow the needs of the system to go away. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u8	Mr. President. Last week, a young stateless Hasari was taken away from Iceland. It belongs to the rightly disposed people of Iran, who cannot enjoy schooling, employment, well - being, or other rights. In such a situation, this young man is born and raised, without all rights. This young man, who has not reached his late 20's, came here looking for protection for over a year ago. He was denied physical treatment, but when deportation had not been completed within 12 months, it was requested by a foreign law that material treatment be administered. This young man's legal right is cloudless. That request remained unsupervised when the Icelandic government suddenly excommunicated in the cover of the night despite the harsh protests of a legal speaker and friends. The Icelandic government thus maintained the complete rightfulness of this person across Icelandic law. The 12 - month - old rule is this right to guarantee human rights but once again the Icelandic government, with the highest power. Minister of Justice, in the head of a company, violated Icelandic law. My dear boy. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson, Trausti Trusty Guðmundsson, Gunnarsdóttir Olsen Gynfótsdótnar, Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Gunnarsson Örjörður Brynjólfsdóttir Brjörnótir, Steinunn, Þóra Gunnarsdóttir Gónnsótnar, Línka Sævarsdóttir Þórunn Egilsdóttir, Willum Þórsson Gersson. This, along with a new legal committee in foreign affairs, is taking place on your watch with your government. They're violating the human rights of people in distress who want protection here. What are you going to do about it?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u9	A respectable president. Earlier this year, I was here in a special discussion of poverty. So there was an ever - increasing sense of goodness in the subject that we received. In fact, wherever they stood, everyone set up and visited the Quantum Coalition. They went all over the city, and they went all the way out to see how poor people in Reykjavík really would. The promise was made here just as if for every election when a promise is made and a pledge is made to the public. But what is the real situation today? Tens of thousands of Icelanders bring back their lives and earn their livelihood from a system of social security. What are we doing about fixing the system other than coming up here in a pit to justify it and saying: We're in a conversation, a group has been appointed, committee? Is it changing the status for those who need to make use of the progress of this system over their heads? The answer is no. It doesn't change her at all. Consider an example of a person who has suffered from the misfortune of having to go to a so - called rehabilitation pension. What happens, though, when it comes to acknowledging that he does not have health to go to the labour market and apply for disability, as it is now known? He'll be in a void. He'll just fall down, he'll never get a dollar. Our good friends, of the Independence Party, who came up here after me when I was discussing poverty, said when they were visiting the Generous Union: We must not wait to improve the terms of this group, to improve the favor of those who are in the arms of their feet. We have to do this before spring, before the end of the council. But now the Senate is over and where are the improvements?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u10	A respectable president. In this public talk recently said that in order to maintain a stable economy, we would need to increase our future export costs by 1 billion per week. It'll take a while. And there is no need for a person to answer the call. During the days, I used to walk through the West. Life is good and satisfying to meet with someone and another. Yet, the spirit among the inhabitants of the West is clearly seen that their situation and defense battle are not measured with reasonableness or understanding. In the historical context, the West has been hosts, self-sufficiency, wanting, and able to. A new industry is rapidly rising on the southern coast of the West. Laxeldi is now on four coasts to the ground of animals. On the other hand, in the depths of Ishafra, the knife appears in the cow. The chickens are put down, made up of fast model models and models that make it difficult for the local people to develop slow and progressive structure, which has long been introduced, though, for years, when the commercial agricultural industry has been operating on fish farms in this area. They want to have the opportunity to work on this without an inexhaustible delay. The companies involved in salmon farms call for clear laws, regulations, and real surveillance, but they have very little to do with it, as shown. There is also a question of how the currency will be paid by a joint coastal resource. There are governments with their pants on their heels, and while they're getting haggis, big talk, and false stories all over the community. The export value of commercially produced salmon farms in the West is approaching 10 billion this year. In comparison, the total value of conventional marine factions is about 110 billion. That's what matters. It is important that we create a solid basis for trust in this article based on professional, scientific, reliable research, caution, and fairness to people in the communities. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There the government has a role, and they need to step in.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u11	A respectable president. I'm here, following local elections to make the publicity of public transportation, in view of the fact that every group that's offered has admired them and their importance in one way or another. With President's permission, I'd like to read here from a report on a research project on public transport growth, which says: During the contract, local contributions have maintained their actual values and have increased with the price-relevant figure specified in the contract. However, the government's contributions, as determined in each year's budget, have failed to comply with the terms of the contract, and although the decline in the years 20133/42015 has not completely resolved in 2016, there is still a need for some improvement in the year around the year 2016. 100 million dollars. to maintain its value in the first year's donation. What has been the result of this experiment? There's been a lot of talk about this 4%, and we haven't managed to get that number up, that's exactly right. But there are other standards that are very positive. The number of passengers on each side of the capital area increased 14% from 2011 to 2015, while the automobile traffic for each population increased by 7%. For example, when a large highway is taken in the capital area, such as a mall and Fos Soil and the Valley of Ellis, traffic rose by 3% and 8%, respectively. However, bus passengers increased by 13% and 12%, respectively. Emissions of greenhouse gases from traffic increased by 6% per person during the period 2011-2015, while greenhouse gas emissions per mile [1 km] in the wagon fleet of Bus fell together by 7% at the same time. Surely all of us agree on the importance of public transportation. In recent years, the capital area has been left behind for transportation improvements. It'll have to be reformed. But we must not fall into the trap of being here talking about black and white. Public transportation, city line, beating streets, and something else. We both need one. It simply requires making a great improvement in transport in the capital area. [[The president calls.]] Of course, growth in public transport is necessary by a city line as defined by rural areas in the capital area. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u12	Mr. President. The government that replaced more than six months ago proclaimed a great attendance on mental health. Despite the wonderful promises, members of the council are daily making a call from the Spirit, an organization of user, through mental distress. Mr. President. People of all ages have to deal with problems of the same kind as these, but especially with young people. In recent years the work of the mental - health team and the Power of Mind has been especially strengthened by young people. The pioneer work of the mental - health team and the Power of Mind is in line with the international emphasis of this series. In the fall of the capital area, the health guard decided to put down the mental - health team without logical support. A health minister has been consulted who has decided to promote specialized health care services to people with psychiatric problems and thus had high hopes that a minister would want to build on the experience and effectiveness of the mental - health team and ensure that he or she is working conditions. It has been arranged by health and social advisers, the World Health Committee, etc., but in vain despite the fact that these members have been begging to spare their resources, as is said of the distress call that the members of Parliament will recognize. It is a responsibility to put down an effective and incomprehensible plan to do so without any research or logical support, which proves that the option does not provide the results to which it is intended. Then it is also a great responsibility, Mr. President, to substantiate the resources upon which multitudes of people with mental difficulties rely. The government will have to run the dirty word, without delay eliminate uncertainty about the future of the mental - health team and its cooperation with the Conspiracy for the benefit of individuals with mental distress and their families. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u13	Mr. President. It is the job of the Generals to monitor the duties of the Minister and the administration. The Constitution of the Government of Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, is promised a covenant for a government conspiracy and the procreation of Generalis. The first chapter of the covenant discusses the authority of the Council. By permission of the president, the plan is: ▪... to strengthen the independence of the council, its management, professional support and position. Then it says: It is the will of the classes that are now involved in cooperation in government and the development of the Generals to approach new projects in support of the general public in the country, especially by supporting the General Assembly in a targeted way and increasing its impact. Now let me tell you how much is involved in these beautiful promises, and let me give you an example. I have specifically observed the government's activities in the affairs of Arion's banks because they have a high financial interest in the public. At a meeting of the Economic and Business Committee on May 7, I asked if the government has a discussion with the hedge fund for falling from the U.S. Preservation of the State of the Stocks of Araz Bank. The answer was no. Two days later, at a meeting of the Governing Body on May 9, I asked about the same thing. No answers. On the following day, May 10, the News magazine reports that the government has reached an agreement with the Council of Buy to cancel the premium on the stocks of Copenhagen in Arion Bank. It also says that the agreement was reached the weekend before, which was May 5 and 6 p.m. Mr. President. It was easier for journalists to find out about the matter than did the General. In all of this, the Allied surveillance role has been carefully ignored. That's serious. The government's treaty is for Ministerhood and for the lack of influence on the government. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u14	A respectable president. In the modern - day United States, fraud is rampant. Despite the high standards of so many years, however, we look forward to the reality that difficulties may lie ahead. The crown's gang has been getting a little too strong. We are now one of the most expensive economys in the world. Our power in foreign lands is far beyond the economic value we make at any given time. A recent survey of the competitiveness of the country in which we fell by four places, from the 20th to the 24th, was published, which is our greatest success in competitiveness from collapse. It has been absolutely reliable in the development of the Icelandic economy that once we are advanced in terms of international prices, i.e. In the crown's lucky log, and competitiveness, the correction is short. We need to start preparing for that situation, i.e. We will have to prepare for harder times. It is unlikely, therefore, that at the same time, we are criticized for the extraordinary inefficiency of government management, the main objective of government is to increase government spending without any measurable aims for success. When we are criticized for a way too high and unstable gang that undermines the competitiveness of our exports, the government has no plans on how to handle the problem -- which is repeated, it is not new, we've wrestled with it for decades. When it comes to our competitive environment, an efficient professional competition, a simple rulework for SMEs, especially so, the government is still making it quite easy. This is no longer possible. We have to deal with this problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u15	Mr. President. I'm going to make a talker of a word. The Secretary of Economics last night was discussed with President's conference board. There he criticized the size and number of queries received by the Ministry of Presidency for the rest of this ideal period. He took the inquirys of my coworker, Björn, Gunnarsson's Leví, out of parentheses, and spoke of an elaborate and precise inquiry. He said that when the senator concluded his lawsuit, he felt that he was making a record, and he concluded with the question, "Do you agree with me in the fact that this has come into existence, by permission of presidents of the United States, to be silent? " I don't like being criticized in this way just for working hard and hard and for doing what they're doing. A significant difference is found between stewards and members of Parliaments, let alone stewards and members of the councils in a position of government. So it is not beneficial or reassuring to listen to the premeditated authority suggesting that an undisputed host is on the allowed number of queries. I'd like to ask you: Was it the highest? Financial and economic secretarys trying to suggest that some sort of dinner was valid for inquiry and procedure, a greeting that we members of the Parliament are not aware of? It's not that I know of, in the Senate. A time to ask questions is required in the council. I think the highest. Therefore, economic and economic ministers should take a look at themselves before criticizing members of the Parliament for doing their job well. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u16	A respectable president. I'd like to make a subject for Lake Earth. He is one of Iceland's most important sails for travel services and picks up a large part of the tourists who come to the national park. The park's management and protection programme has been revised and a work programme in the development since 2013. However, new programmes of management and protection do not cover British Desertsand, which were taken into the park with the planet fell in 2017. Thus, there is no programme in that area and even less employment policy, but not necessarily. Therefore, I would like to point out that the employment and protection of the area visited by most guests is indiscriminate and essential that the State responds in a decisive way by working to the Management and Protector program for the Breinland and molding the first, guided by the main objective of a lakeland nation. The third primary objective is, by permission of the president: ▪ The park's water supply, its policies, its decisions, and its implementation, contributes to the improved quality and speciality of the park's park for further growth of jobs and habitats in the region, for innovation in employment life, for art and mediaisation of the region. However, it is important to emphasize that expectations in the garden have been and are still abundant. Many families in recent years have made major investments in building companies on recreation for tourists, as well as for those who have built up room and restaurant services. These tiny, delicate companies are making their way out into fjords through the winter of the hearth of massive ice - shelfes. Now, it is important to keep the word that professional life can exist on the basis of natural protection and thus promote the environment. If there is a failure in a Lakeland park, it can be predicted that it will be harder for the State to cooperate with rural communities to protect other areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u17	Mr. President. In the middle of this month or in the middle of a month, the National Reexamination of the Management Board: The Silicon Factory of the Silikon Corporation, Inc. The report was carried out at the request of the Council, the initiative given here, and several members of the council enrolled in it. I suppose people here have at least polarized it, but there are seven indications directly in this report to the Department of Employment and Development, the Ministry of Environment and Resources, the Organization, the EEA and the State at work. I'm not going to list all the criticism found in this report, but I'm going to kill a few things. The Silicon plant was not finished at the time of production and never worked in line with the assessment of environmental impact, work permit and the purpose of the Convention on Ideas. Both the olfactory and the expected negative visual effects were different and greater. The factory's structure was not in accordance with existing regional structure, and the government's will-to-do deal with the United Silikon was entirely based on the data and information provided by the candidate. There was no clear information on possession and management. How important it is that we follow this work here at the Generals, dig into why it went so far, why this hurry was on the subject, how we can learn from this. Are we really going to learn from this? What was the role of the government in this? Is government aspect above criticism? There are two main points that come to mind, two things to be light, should have been a guide, but at least it must be in the discussion below, a public opinion. These two seem to have been lost somewhere in the process. I encourage Congress to return to that important guide. I also recommend to Mr. President that this report and discussion be arranged on the council program. I know there's not much going on yet, but there's not much that can be more important than transparency in things like this and in public interest. [[The president calls.]] These are national interests in the present and future.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u18	Mr. President. A recent report from the Norwegian Ministers reports that in northern countries, rich people are becoming richer and poorer, which is a bad trend. The growth and survival of the public are becoming inexorable. Norse community trust has been measured more than in other countries. In communities where there is more equal, there is more confidence between humans and society's institutions as well. Not only is increased trust accompanied by greater equality but also greater harmony, greater harmony, greater happiness, better health, and fewer crimes. Hence, the government should seek all ways to increase the equation and put such matters first. Here, the Icelandic community of the second world war was as productive as it was in the 1980's, as well recorded in the book Ungained in Iceland, by Sölvi Ólafsson and Kristjánsson Söljánsson, after which it began to fall on the bad side. The growth of economic growth in the highest income groups can be largely explained by the increase in the years before collapse, but about one third of the conflict between government policies and tax reforms. It grew back after collapse because the Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir government used the tax and reforming system to the equation and capital gains were scraping together. Today, the trend in this country is on the move to dissipate, as it did in the Norwegian countries, and therefore the reason for government response is firm. Bjarts and public support should increase in the rhythm of pay development. Velocation of welfare services should be avoided. Bank of sick people is not in any of the north countries as great as in this country. We should raise the capital tax and tax big estates. The fiscal tax, though, was increased by the past year, by two percent, and the estimated income of that increase is about 1.4 billion. This year. At the same time, however, a reimbursement of the tax base is presented, in fact, to the extent that it will be a failure to pay for the financial resources. The increase was completely perfunctory and has virtually nothing to say in order to increase the equation in this country. Inequities, whether thought of income or possessions, are increasing. If governments want to level the game to increase social trust, both the tax and the improvement systems must be used. The tax system changes that were relevant would include more tax steps, higher personal discounts, step - by - step capital taxes, and gross taxation on significant property beyond people's living quarters. The importance of child improvement and housing improvements are other important means by which governments could use them. If the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter is going to slow down, the roof that has been set up for child support in the five - year financial program of the State must be restored to a large degree. The main conclusion of the Norwegian Minister's report is that increasing inequities in the North countries can be explained by failure to increase the pay rate in the past few years. These improvements are much higher in this country than in the Norwegian countries and child support start to decline here, at the decision of the present government, far below the minimum wage. V.E.G. Over the years, prime minister has emphasized the balance between his talks and the proposal at the General Assembly. I know where her heart has hit in this regard. But if nothing is to be done now, the first words are irrelevant. I'm not calling for any more committees to look for directions, not talking about working with potential proposals, and not about planning to consult unions. I ask of measures that the government itself is going to take if there are any, to facilitate the equation in Icelandic society and at the same time get all the benefits, increase confidence, increase peace, improve health, and fewer crimes. What action within the tax and reforming system does the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter intend to take to increase the equation in Iceland? There is more money in the welfare system in this country than in the Norwegian countries and, in fact, tax on the weak. Will the government of Katrín's daughter, Jakobsdóttir, reduce that price? What's your position? Prime Minister to comment as follows: By improving child reforms and growth improvements, and by improving such improvements, and by improving social security benefits, is society being improving? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u19	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for filming this important matter, though I find it in her reflection of the world scene that appears in her speech, for many of the things are familiar. A senator said that there has already been an announcement in the financial program of a new government. I'll go over it now. However, I find an interesting fundamental question. A senator on trust and equality and whether we can connect with the welfare system. This is one of the long conversations that have long been discussed among scholars, i.e. Whether the welfare system is equal to the foundation of trust, such as the wag. A senator pointed out in his speech, or whether trust really is the foundation of the welfare system and equation. Of this, scholars have debated the matter. Some have claimed that the welfare system in the North countries is for instance. A member of the council found himself to be a trust - at - home society. As a result, men and women are willing to invest in the infrastructure that is needed for the welfare community. Other scholars have noted that creating a welfare community is the way to build trust in society. I find this interesting, because there is something that we should consider when talking about trust in Iceland and comparing with other North countries and comparing Iceland's balance and welfare systems with other Northern countries. Hv. A senator spoke of growing inequities in Iceland. I was looking at the latest Gii figures, which measure income balance in Iceland. Development according to him has actually been that there are no significant changes in income balance in Iceland since 2011, i.e. The changes are within the security margin. But I agree with what. A senator in it, or I think at least she said it, that there's a very narrow way of looking at the equation solely out of income distribution. I've discussed more than once in this chair that the real inequities of property are revealed. The Gini constant measures, e.g. not selling stock. If we assume that the stock market is increasing since 2011, there is a high likelihood that there will be an increase in the level of the income level. It is vital that we base such discussions on facts and take them out and on roads and observe them. Hv. A senator noted that the capital tax had been raised. It was precisely increased by 10%, by about two percentages, and at the same time the cost of free income was higher that protected general savings because we want to tax more on stocks; capital gains for the best. It has been reported, and this increase of taxes primarily affects those most of them. This is a very realistic operation, a tangible operation, to increase the equation in society. Hv. A senator speaks of a pay factor in the health system. Wait a minute. A senator to study the material of a financial program in which we suggest that 8.5 billion will be spent over the next five years in order to reduce the patient's payment in the Icelandic medical system. Why do we do that? Because she's been too tall. It's higher than in any other country in the North. However, with these programmes, we are comparable to other North countries when it comes to crediting patients. The first step was taken immediately into the last financial legal arrangement when it was started to correct the disability and the elderly with a dentist who had not been changed for years. That was a long - term change. At that time, 0.5 billion were immediately put in place, resulting in a total of 1 billion each year starting next millenniums. So I'm pointing it out. A senator says that there are already several measures that have been taken in order to promote the welfare system, to increase the equation. The same can be said when we are investing in education. Like what? A senator knows well is likely the most important system, apart from the tax system, in order to promote the balance in society. There we are finally turning on the fence and promoting education in both high schools and schools with increased funding because we know that this is not just a matter of opportunity for the future, for a more powerful job life, and for a variety of things, but is also an equation. Hv. In his speech, a senator may belittled to communicate in order to form a representative of micro-energy pensioner's system changes in the social security system to make reconciliation for such changes in order to improve the quality of disability. I don't agree with what. That's what a senator does. I want to see a more careful practice here. I want us to settle for the changes made. It was not reached 2016 when changes in the social security system were made. Now we're working on making such peace with the representatives of micro-energy pensioners, and I hope that this work will give us good suggestions that will ensure a decent standing for this group. [[The president calls.]] The same thing I'd like to say about changing the income tax system that we have estimated considerable funds in this financial programme, that they serve the declared purpose of the government to benefit the income. But it will be done only when it is done well.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u20	A respectable president. I want to thank you for this discussion. It is a concept that we talk about, and it is often used here in this chamber on various occasions. We talk about the equation when it comes to balance income between groups, etc. There is something special, however, to listen to government spoke of the equation, for it does not seem to be the sole concern of the request for an even greater degree, whether there is an equal gap between people than today, or whether Iceland is leading in a series, or, at least, at least, when the world is equal. This disunited group of governments and theirs, - Excuse me, I apologize, Mr. President -- i.e. Its members, when speaking of the equation, do not seem to speak out of one course or one line. So I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister, how is this possible? Whether an equation has increased in Iceland or not is not the case with prime minister or financial minister. How is it that the prime minister did not foretell for so many months that there would be an equal increase in Iceland where there is an inequities? Soon thereafter, the prime minister said that there was a large equation in Iceland, and we were in the leading category. What is this? Is the government absolutely no longer allowed to agree on whether there is an equation in Iceland, whether it needs to get better or whether it's enough in comparison with other countries? This is one of many things that have come up and will, of course, come up when we have a government which is formed over such a wide space, if I may put it that way, Mr. President; when groups agree to form a government. It would be very good for us here, and I reiterate my question, that ministers, in particular government leaders, would agree on how they look at the equation in Iceland. That's why I'm asking the highest. Prime Minister again: What is the meaning of the difference between the minister of Independence, Minister of finance, and prime minister at the same time?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u21	A respectable president. First, I want to thank the advocate for this discussion. She's needed and she's good. I have often heard her talk about inflexible speech. Of course, it is very important for us to consider how each day we can create a society that is more beautiful and better for all of us. The community also builds a little on our own contribution, that we are not always pointing to others, always asking what others can do for us. We also need to consider what our contribution is to our community. I feel that governments and rural societies open schools 24 hours a day so that children can spend most of their time at home. Don't we need to change that, too? Do we not have to look at it, look at ourselves what we can do for our parents who have come to the nursing home, not just the nursing home and the staff there, but what we can do for ourselves? It is always our responsibility to try to reduce the burden of walking. It's not starting now. This was done by nomads and pilgrims in the past. They prepared their lives by reducing the burdens we bear through life. Of course, it is our job here to improve our well - being, allowing employment to pay so that compensation should become almost unnecessary. That, of course, would be in the perfect world. This discussion is like I said it's a real need and it's a good one. We need to find the point where everyone in this country has the same opportunity to educate themselves, which is the basis for progress and innovation, as it were, the highest. Then, correctly, the prime minister entered his fine talk. Once again, I'm going to reiterate it and thank a prominent for this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u22	A respectable president. Since 2011, rent prices have increased by 85%. At the same time, apartment prices have increased by 95%. The mean pay has also increased by approximately same ratio, 85%, at the same time. Of course, the average does not say all but the median has also increased by approximately 85%. However, the standard deviation has increased much more. What this tells us is that averages and media have pretty much kept up with rent prices, but they have been cut off by the development of cover prices and the development of pay and then by how the standard deviations are calculated. investing in an apartment has become much more difficult for employees today. Above all these figures, standard deviations, etc., comes the Gini index that has been spoken of, which shows no major change in how equations have developed in Iceland in recent years. It reaches the year 2016, as I can see on the Habitat site, but there is a lack of up-to-date data. We'll take a look at the Giini factor for a year and a half back in time, and at the time, rent prices have increased around 27% and apartment prices have increased approximately 27%. 13%. So many things have changed at that time, but the data we need to know how out - of - date the effects of the changes are. This is the information we need to monitor society's health, and it's out - of - date. It is as if a doctor used an ECG from a patient since 2016 to make decisions about the treatment today. We have to do better than that. The question of trust in the advocate's speech is also of interest. Now I've been discussing political trust over the years, and I'm not connected with distrust necessary to the inequities, although I am certainly saying that it is an important part of it. The other is the conduct of those in authority and their respect for the laws and rules or the lack of respect. Here, for example. Talk about high financial resources, but at the same time there is no policy in what to use and what goals to reach. In fact, it complained. Óli Björn Kárason, president of the Economic and Business Committee in discussions about earlier today. We gain confidence by what we do - not just what we say or pretend to be elected but what we do. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u23	V.E.G. President. First, I want to thank the advocate of this need for this discussion. Here the trend seems to be taking place, as in other parts of the world, is increasing inexorably. However, it can be noted that Iceland is better available in international comparison when it comes to earning a lot of money, but not as well when it comes to property balance. As we have seen, the government has taken a number of measures to improve the balance, to reduce tax burden, and to contribute to the income market. There are good signs and financial programs that allow space to change the income tax system to be about 14 billion. Already, capital tax has been increased by 10%, resulting in a higher level of property. Besides, it even says that. in the Government Declaration that it will reduce the patient's payment in the health system, make it more beneficial and more efficient. The financial program shows that there are some 8 billion dollars available for that purpose. V.E.G. President. I want to make the sex equality a subject here. Interestingly, the report by the Norwegian Minister shows that there is an inequities between men and women in all income groups. In terms of employment, the difference is greatest in the lowest and highest income groups. In view of the arrangement, however, the difference is greatest in the highest income groups. It is noted that less uneven arrangements are made for women than for men. Another interesting thing is that women in the highest income law have not increased in the North countries in international comparison. Various people argue that the so - called North American model can have a negative effect on women's ability to enter the highest income law. V.E.G. President. With the stronger status of the state's funds, we are going to keep our people in good hands, improve the position of the lowest, increase the equation of all groups. That's why I want to encourage the highest. Prominently, the prime minister encourages her to follow up some of the more balanced plans, for more equations lead to an even better community.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u24	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this need for a discussion that is never too often taken up here in the General Court of Auditors. I get many calls every day, asking for help. In Iceland alone, less than 10% of children still live with a measure of shortage. I am tired of listening to the four - party leaders talking about their own poverty. They have all been in power, and only the worst of them put further into the poverty trap. If there was any real desire to eliminate poverty in Iceland, we would now attend this council, for example. ... tore off a dollar in return, to stop taxing poverty, and to increase the minimum wage in order to ensure that people in the least of their food, clothing, and shelter. This issue has been on the program since December 14 of the past. The question is, Is there any real will for improvement? The answer to this question is simple to me: No, no one wants it to be. The Senate will be over Thursday next week. Me and my fine group members have called this evil system of things because the fact is that e.g. The Social Security Act is 2007, no. 100/2007. There are nearly 20,000 people who need to rely on the survival of this system. A lot of calls have been made for change. The call is loud, but we close so completely with our ears that it is sad to say that you have been here since mid - December and nothing has been accomplished. [[The president calls.]] I'm just saying, "We and you, all of us should be ashamed and ashamed and ashamed of us again."
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u25	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for this discussion. Of course, it is of utmost importance to consider at all times how we protect the worst - handed security in society when it comes to education, health, and so forth. In many ways, we have succeeded. I often find the lack of a discussion about the equation, especially in this room, that we discuss what is related to us, not what is accountable, such as. in collective agreements when the lowest salary is due, or inverse of the equation, i.e. wealth or wealth. True, wealthy people are detracting, but there is no problem when it comes to equalizing. It's good when people do well, when they take risks like that. to start and operate a business and make money on it. After any who succeed in doing so, there is a large group of people who were unable to succeed and who had little in it. We are not to speak out of a free spirit, but we are to look to what is related to us. The main focus is the security network, the social security and the tax system, the income distribution through the tax system. We are still advising the policy of this government in it. It is quite clear that the categories that make up the government generally disagree with us about the income balance of the tax system, but especially with the most important aspects of income balance, the most important elements of our security network, which are support systems such as child care, housing, and compensation. The Independence Party during its reign at the Ministry of Economic Affairs has deliberately dropped it for years, and it is not seeing any sign of the present government that there is to be a change of direction. These support systems, these vital support systems of low - income groups, are being progressively removed by not uplifting them as we have to do, and at any given time take care of them. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This is the most important task when discussing the equation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u26	Madam President. There are many manifestations that are not equal to them. It has, for example. It was a rule from industrialization that each generation is better than the generation of its parents. I'm sorry to change. Today, the wealth and purchase power of young people is low than that of the previous generation. They even have a pessimistic view of the future. While the average number of middle - aged and older people today is somewhat better than when they were at the turn of the century, younger people's interests are worse, less income, less money, and less money. Today it is almost impossible for young people to have a roof over their heads without a strong financial backland. Meanwhile, most young people can buy homes for themselves, and those who already have homes grow at an all - important speed. The government has not provided enough clear measures to handle this. In recent years, options have largely been made by most people. For the most part, the correction went to those who had settled in a comfortable position, and the most efficient income was the property. While rent is rising and it is harder to save money, traditional equations, such as growth reforms and child - making devices, have been developed. Young people tend to get hurt most. The consequences may not be as serious if this were a competitive tenet, but unfortunately, the government is also rich. Mr. President. Iceland is in a fierce competition with other countries for young people. In this regard, the welfare of the country will depend on the next few decades. Today it can simply choose any place in the world. We must have much better conditions. I'm asking if the highest. Similarly, prime minister is not concerned that we will compete with other nations in the battle for young people. What measures does the government proclaim to reduce the inequities between young and old people, and between those who have and those who have none? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u27	A respectable president. I appreciate the need for this discussion. Throughout history, we know that government, rural and labor groups have built up an welfare system in the country. That is good in many ways, but we can do much better. More often than not, the welfare system has been repaired and further built up by the labor movement. It plays a major role, though, that we have the welfare system we have today, so it is only natural that the government and the government each operates with the labor movement where it can be built up and strengthen the welfare system in order to increase the equation in our country. Many of the greatest advances have been made when labor groups have come into business with government and rural groups. But we can do much better, and inequities are unacceptable. Here in this council hall, all of us want to increase the equation, and we all need to take it to ourselves and not be protruding each other, whoever is in the greater part of our time. We are to do better, and the current financial agenda is to address the problems and increase the financial resources to welfare matters. It is good, and we need to apply it firmly in our individual financial resources. This was shown in the talk of the highest. The secretary of finance yesterday should not be too low on paying taxes. But the reality is 300 yards. K. pay, minimum wage in the country today, don't carry taxes. We just need to face it. However, there is a somewhat higher improvement criteria for the Ministry of Health. It's a project that is ours all because it's a disgrace to every society that it's inequities and poverty, and we all have to do better together. [[The president calls.]] We can.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u28	V.E.G. President. I thank the founder of this discussion for her. She's good. I'd like to discuss, like my nice colleague above, the inequities between age groups in this society. One thing was missing in both his discussion on the part of and on the part of a messenger, and they have an apathy in common with a class of the highest standard. Prime Minister, this is the growing stage in the country. How can young people get a field, and how is it possible for young people to get up a roof over their heads compared to the interest bags that we use in Iceland? It just so happens that it's in the middle of nowhere. The Economic and Business Committee bill that the Central Party proposed in the winter for the removal of index-country housing teams. When 1st. asked for this matter in a council hall recently, neither members of the United States nor left greens brought up the subject that is one of the biggest interests of young people in Iceland. What is needed to improve the situation of young people and to improve the quality of the situation is to reduce both the growth and the maintenance of insurance insurance from loans as much as possible and then change payment in a way that young people, well - educated, well - paid, able to buy a roof over their heads, even though they have a small head position. That's why I feel like I'm missing into this interest and insurance thing. I'm asking the highest. Prime Minister: What do the government intends to do in order for a country's growth rate to become like that of neighboring countries so that we can compete for the permanent residence of young people? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u29	Madam President. It may not be surprising that I want to approach the subject in a slightly different way and from a different viewpoint. A ruse, Oddný G. Harðardóttir. It is possible to increase the equation by cutting down those who may have more than others. It is also possible to focus on how we raise lesser ones, how we increase opportunities for them. That's how I want to discuss the subject, how we increase the social equation and how we improve the standard of living for everyone. It's possible, it's my religion. The best equation device in my mind is not going through the complicated transfer system of state funds, it's going through education. It has a powerful educational system, not just in the field of literature, but especially in the field of engineering and technology, which we remember for a long time, to a long time, to a greater extent in Icelandic society. Of course, we need to consider having a powerful social security system to make sure that our brothers and sisters who need help can have a decent life. The government has the very plan to repair an insurance system that I've been talking about for a long time because they're doing it, I don't think it's our fault that we're here to have done so already. [[The president calls.]] And then I'm going to remind you that in the financial program that is being discussed, it's just about changing the possible income tax system and considering the interaction of the income tax system and the recovery system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u30	Madam President. When discussing the equation or lack there, we must endeavor to talk about the equation with which most people in this community live. In Iceland, the majority of people are talking about average wages, averages of property division, average savings, etc. The problem is that averages, especially when calculating pay, do not provide the correct image of the average person, because it calculates in terms of extreme deviations that aggravate the entire picture. It would be more natural to calculate the medians in these issues. When this is done, the picture of the situation is much clearer, as it turns to most of the nation. It is very important to discuss the equation that the criteria and definitions are the most accurate and correct basis for thinking in solutions and finding good solutions. That's why I'd like to direct it to the highest level. Whether this is something she has thought about or will follow my brief talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u31	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the advisor, huh? paritaprevir A Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter, this important and needed a discussion on the equation. And I also thank you for the advice and answers of the highest degree. Prime Minister Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, on the plans of the government. This is true, and it is widely accepted that every community is important, and trust is believed to be more largely interpolated in a greater community. Likewise, economic prosperity is generally considered to be greater, with more equations and growing shifts in terms of growth, opportunity, and even a threat to peace and democracy. It is also a social and economic matter. When we look at the equation, it is important to keep in mind the criteria or standards we set when determining the equation, the exchange of quality, whether measured by income or possessions, and the demographic parameters involved. When it comes to paying, Iceland has an equal share compared with other European countries. According to a biography study of the Habitat from December, distribution of income and the Giin Index, Iceland is at least uneven in Europe in 2016. A balanced estimate of property may be reversed, and we may argue whether it is large or small. But the comparison is important here. There are figures that say that property is at least balanced in comparison with the northern countries, where it is greater than in many other places. Other figures tell us that there is an abundance of possessions in international comparison. Despite everything, equality is important to economic prosperity and thus a constant subject. I welcome plans and measures to the highest degree. Governments towards greater proportions, the highest. One way that the prime minister went over there was to show up in a national budget program. In particular, I would like to mention changes in the income taxation system, increased support to family members, to tenants, and a reduction in patient payment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u32	A respectable president. Thank you so much for this discussion. I feel so bad about what I just found out. Not long ago, there was a dollar in favor of your 30 to 40 pounds. K. A crown across the dollar is a hundred farts away today. K. An individual at the highest. The minister of finance boasted that he would be at 300 o'clock. At least, living alone, is sick, invalid, gets 300 you. K. But after tax and impairment, he's down to 250 grand. K. If this person receives 100 you. K. From the pension fund, he gets 0. It's wiped out. If he can't get anything from a pension fund and doesn't have a right to go to work, earn 100 you. He'll get 0. What kind of violence is this? How on earth are we going to let this happen? Then we crown violence when individuals are now affected by government insurance agencies after the Great Diplomatic Day, 88% of the payments are wrong, 12% are correct. Then they send out a letter saying they should repay 48 points. K. But it's received from the government insurance agency 33 C.E. K. because it has been re-evaluated. The person no longer gets a rehabilitation scholarship, he gets 50% strength, and he's supposed to survive 33 of you. K. You trust yourselves in here to survive 33 you. K. a month? I won't. It's hopeless. Let's talk about the Gii. 750 you've got. K. is the average wage in the country today. Half of it should be in poverty, but there are 30%, 250 yous. Someone they're paying for. [[The president calls.]] So low. Should we be proud of it? No.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u33	Madam President. In recent years the country's lowest salary has increased substantially beyond the average wage. In fact, we have achieved the success of having a minimum wage in the country that is never as high as the average. It is well to say, but the concern is that the opposite is expressed by the fact that education has never paid as little as it is now. We are becoming the nation that provides the least benefit from education. There is long - term anxiety. We need to take this into account the discussion on the equation as well. Long-term pay is required for a healthy society to educate itself. It should not be forgotten in the context of the fact that people who choose to go on a longer education sacrifice average five to eight years of their life's income in that education and, of course, must be of some benefit to them. It usually takes 35% of the pressure on an average worker's salary to pay off a university education, in order to achieve the same life - style that the worker has. It's fine to keep that in mind. This benefit is just over 20% today. It does not pay to be educated in Icelandic society according to that standard. It brings to mind another situation of women's classes in Iceland. Women are well - educated, on average, a better educated group than men, but they do not benefit in any way from an advanced level of education. Especially is this true of teachers and carers. This must be kept in mind in this context too. Most importantly, it's not just about the entrance, it's about how much it costs to live in this community. Here we look at the cost of growth of a costly currency, the Icelandic crown, a fluctuated coin with a threefold interest on our neighboring countries, and when it comes to one of the biggest food prices in the continent's most protected agriculture with the greatest food price compared to all our neighboring countries. [[The president calls.]] It is possible to improve the country's interest in this hall by reevaluating these factors, the public interest costs, and the public's food costs.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u34	Mr. President. V.E.G. The prime minister began his talk earlier with the subject of discussing the balance and trust of interest. V.E.G. A minister finds the discussion interesting and pondered the approach of scholars. The one here believes that discussions about trust should be the main element of politics, since it is the heart of an equal policy. V.E.G. The prime minister spoke of reducing the payment of health care providers. That's fine. But after completing the measures mentioned in the financial programme, the funds will be comparable to what happens in the North countries and that is exactly what is being criticized in the report by the Norwegian Minister and said to avoid; that there is already too much to be done to pay the welfare system. The government's will, therefore, has to be done better. This report of the Norwegian Minister's Committee also speaks of child reforms and housing improvements and how important they are to balance people's status and that they need to comply with their economic development. The workers in this country have repeatedly noted that these vast and good equations are being weakened, child welfare and housing benefits, and it has been a political decision to weaken them progressively over the past few years. There is no need to wait for committees, there is only a need to make some adjustments in financial planning, but child support and housing are all too low. The fact is, 218 families who formed the richest 0.1% of the population had just over 200 million. in clean property at the end of 2016. This group of rich people increased their pure possessions by some 14 billion dollars. in that year. [[The president calls.]] Here's what we're talking about. Government senators that all strive for more equalizing and equalizing the way to a better community. So I must ask for a clear answer to the way to get down the inequities that are clearly going up here on the land in front of our eyes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u35	Madam President. Thank you. The apocalyptic and the smidge. Parliaments for this important discussion. I find it very important to say that I think it is very good for politicians to study what scholars are discussing when it comes to equal trust. I hope now. I agree with a saying that although I may have pretended to have felt that she did not feel ashamed to cite this large issue, which has been very much discussed in the field of teaching, i.e. Whether trust is essential, or equal, to trust. I would've thought what. Oddný A Harðardóttir Hardydotir would consider this an important discussion. These are the questions asked by scholars to understand why the trend in different countries after financial crisis has been so different. I think the political debate here in Iceland could even be better if it did. Councilmen wanted to go into these deeper depressions when they have the opportunity to examine the political situation and to compare it with what is happening in other countries. I studied in my speech what has been done. I think it would also improve the discussion if we accepted what is being done right. We are going down to the pay interview, and the tax changes that the government has introduced have served as the goal of increasing the equation to combat an increase in property balance. It's the inequities I'm most concerned about in this society, the property balance. We're going to review the tax system to meet the earners. I would have thought, in the case of as important a subject as we are talking about, the ideals of the most commercial groups, of the community, and of whether our trust is based on that equation, that we should be able to agree with what is well done, although, of course, we can do better in various language groups. There's a reason. Councilmen mentioned various factors. This has been discussed with the educational system, the country's interest level, the cost of housing. [[The president calls.]] In fact, I don't think it's an accident that the housing business was the thing most discussed with me in the local elections. It is a real matter that we need to look to. The government is surely making use of the budget it has created in a financial program in order to increase the equation, and we will see further action on these topics.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u36	V.E.G. President. It is a failure for the government to bring a case of this magnitude into the council when there is so little time left in the Senate. While it is not customary to vote for variations to be granted, I view this matter as primarily presented in the introduction. I can't believe that the government intends to drive it through the council at the time remaining until Thursday next week. In the belief that this case is presented for introduction, not payment, I will support the introduction of variations.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u37	Madam President. I have to say something. paritaprevir Sourstein, Sæmundsson of Sæmund, expressed great concern that we here at the General Assembly are to discuss this doubrant that arrived yesterday. This is 147 pp. which have an enormous wide range of impact on institutions, companies and all the public in Iceland. We are talking about government fines of 2.4 billion to be chosen by Persian protection. A professor of law has said that it takes at least four times the Persian protection staff so that the Agency can maintain its own surveillance. I think we have to do better. We can't be working this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u38	Madam President. The original reference to GDPR began in Europe on January 25, 2012. It was adopted in Europe on April 8, 2016 by the Council decision and on April 14, 2016. We've known about this case for eight years. This is not something that should surprise us. It's been in progress for the government and the scheme to become two years, and in fact, there's just no clear explanation why it's now revealed. The bill should have come on time. We should have been allowed to see it before. We got it delivered, 147 p.m., last night. We're done taking care of it now. This kind of work is not present. The government is to act better and bring data to the council so that it is possible for us to do things well, carefully, professionally, and normally under any circumstances. That's not the way to do things. This is shameful, showing complete contempt for the council. I just don't understand this kind of work.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u39	A respectable president. Here's the doll we're about to take on. It's a good and blessed thing to finally have this, but what's really important to us, and how important it must matter to us, is that the Senate's execution is professional and well done. It's not a little bit of an important document. We can't have it over in a few days. Although we have been able to read and study the matter beforehand and in such cases, the comments of our experts are very important to us. It is important for us to do a very thorough and thorough review of all the comments on the language of Icelandic and foreign countries and others. They're not here yet. In view of the council's work programme, there is not a time for a traditional reporting period on such a huge matter. A respectable president. That's extremely serious.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u40	Madam President. I'm just going to say what the senators have said and make serious comments on this work song. This is completely unacceptable. Not only is it to present such a giant case in advance that is virtually nonexistent, i.e. The time we're given. Nor is it true that there are any reasonable reasons, at least not that have been cast up. In view of the lack of them, the conclusion cannot be avoided as if this is what it is trying to prevent the council from discussing this matter. Then it's just to the executives: it won't be that way. This case will be discussed, as the members of the council feel the need to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u41	Madam President. V.E.G. A minister cannot be serious about going to the council for a week to complete as much and as much of a subject as this. It is surprising that once this matter was repeatedly called for timely fulfillment, we are watching that it is being measured just over a week before the assembly is due to go home. There's no time for discussion. It is clear from the current work that little consideration has been given to the comments made during the progress of the case. This has an enormous wide range of effects, e.g. for the entire nation's professional life, which is undergoing a very high demand that a huge number of fines be passed. We are to spend a week finishing our discussion on this subject. You gotta be kidding me.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u42	V.E.G. President. Of course, the treatment that will be given at the council remains to be revealed. It will be recommended today and then a review will be made on a global and educational committee and elsewhere. It is true, however, that this discussion, or a vote for variations, has been stated that the matter has been established and has been public for a long time. There has been an introduction on the board of directors for a long time. Advertisers have been able to study the matter for a long time. It is not as if an unexpected or unexpected bomb is being dropped. All the details of the matter have existed for a long time. This should be unusual in the unusual way that this type of work has not been accepted into the EEA Convention. Mr. Liechtenstein and Norway have just finished. [[The president calls.]] I think Norway finished last week. Of course, it's in an unusual setting. We have to watch it. However, humans cannot pretend that this is coming with an unexpected news, new information, or something that should have surprised them. This is a European standard that has been established by humans to legalize national legislation, but the points, the principles, have been placed in place for a long time. [[President (TheE): The president asks members of the council to observe the time of speech.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u43	Madam President. You're right. A senator says, this is not an unexpected matter. However, this does not change the fact that we have to discuss this, get reviews of the matter during the days that remain in the council. I assume they'll give you ten days or so. What, then, are the number of days left in relation to the work schedule? This is absolutely unannounced; except that here we are going to discuss in the next few days of the government budget. It's a waste layer, there's been many calls for this case, many times to ask the highest. Minister of Justice whether or not to enter the council. The Congress and the government stand simply unable to accept the task of turning into a financial agency where things are rolling through for the government when this is being brought to the attention of many. This sucks, Mr. President - Mrs. President, even.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u44	Madam President. First of all, it is pointless to plan on taking this matter into the race. This is an extremely important matter. We've been calling since it's laid out in its final form for us here very long, all winter. We're in a hurry. Then you're right next to what's wrong. paritaprevir Birgir the Ármannsson son that the matter has been ahead of us for a very long time. However, there has also been a very long period of time when it would be most appropriate for the case to receive the normal legal treatment. That should not surprise anyone. Of course, this should have been the case. That should not surprise anyone. The very matter that has existed for a very long time is not necessarily the same as in this 147 page. A brochure that we have received today We have no basis for trusting what comes from the movers of this proposal, that there is no difference between what has been in the scheme of consultation and what has now happened to our eyes. We have no basis for confidence, for consultation in this case has been minimal.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u45	A respectable president. It's a pleasure to hear what you're doing. Congress officials are eager to discuss personal protection. I will not minimize their interest or minimize their interest in these matters. However, I have no doubt that any of them are more interested than I myself in discussing these matters during the council and are happy to have the opportunity to do so. I hope the whole world of Congress does too. The irony words here are always presented, in terms of the type of work and the way it is used, not to be supported. Like what? Councilmen know for themselves this is the implementation of the EU Regulation into the EEA Convention. It hasn't been done yet. It is anticipated that this will not be done until July. To provide a bill for new laws based on that type is very novel and is not in harmony with what we should do. But no one calls for more than just the stakeholders who have been giving many reviews on these matters and making comments in a very broad and extensive series of consultations that have been going on for months.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u46	Madam President. The Personal Protection Department is one of the most important things we are facing because of the technological changes that have taken place, especially through social services in which people are giving their personal information to big sharers, hosts, to find out if they are Daenerys Targaryen or Jon Snow in Game of Thrones. We buy that kind of information by giving our personal information. It is really only the government, the State or the European Union in this case and the Regulation we are implementing in this regard, which can do this. This is an extremely important directive. It is quite a shock to bring her into the council when we agree with the Council's work programme to end the council in a week, and we estimate that we can achieve such an enormously important and broad legislation in such a short time. It's kind of reckless. I'm just hoping we'll take some time into the summer if we're gonna do this well. We have called for more time to include in and comment on the matter during the Senate work, only a length of time. [[The president calls.]] I think it's ten days now, which is kind of the worst possible time to work this thing on. But we can't do this with a high-recking speed here at the council. Sounds like almost everyone agrees on that. I'm going to hope to the highest. Minister of Justice if so.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u47	A respectable president. As I said before, the bill has certainly been lying in the way for quite a long time. However, there are technical details that are important, and the council needs to get to know and discuss. Although we have been able to look over the bill and see for general significance, the technical details that matter everything in the council to understand and settle. There's something else we can't do. We can't put this line in order and log it out without a thorough review of the council. Neither can we, as has been said here, handle the matter this strange way. Yes, we may be able to do so, but it will never escape the fact that the council will take care of business, that everything else has generally been dropped in the head with various adjustments and expenses. There were about 5 billion at the cost we were twisting off again last year because of a legal error. [[The president calls.]] We don't want to end up like that. There's a lot of money in this bill. We have to watch our backs.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u48	Madam President. It's a big deal. It's a big deal. You cannot help but agree that the work of this case is highly peculiar. It's been referred to here, now the last of what. paritaprevir A Birgir Ármannsson of man, and earlier of the minister of justice, that the members of the council had been in the hands of those in the congregation, taking a closer look at the matter in a court of counsel. The confidentiality is in accordance with its role for the public and the stakeholders to interact with the government on their responsibilities. It is a few new things if it has become a special guide for Congress to direct the Council's consultation on what is to come. I can't quite figure it out, but I think it's very peculiar, and I really hope that those who speak for improved practices and more respect of the Generals will not begin to adopt the custom of directing men to the Board of Directors on what the General Assembly is going to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u49	Madam President. I just want to say in the light of words here that this bill was first published in its final form with the full May 8, following the beginning of a intermission. It was proposed in Norway in March. Opinion of the government ship was first published on May 24, i.e. Councilmen here knew nothing about the evaluation of administrative matters until May 24th. It's all the talk, and it's all the professional work they're talking about. That's what's being criticized here, no less.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u50	Madam President. I'd like to make a decision that we've been calling for this case for months. Not without reason. This is an incredibly important issue for the public in the country, the companies in the country, who need to get this straight; for the general public particularly needed by these personal protection laws. What I'm complaining about and what we've been complaining about is that this needs to be done well. You can't win this by making fun of yourself, not in a short time. Much has been said about the growth of the council. I hate to see what that promise is like out the window. But we need to work hard. It is not absurd to say that the approach of the government was below all caves. Piratar and I are with the companies and public of the country, who need to get this straight, so we're going to sit next to each other in unique ways. We don't want to stop this, we need to run out of business soon. But we're sitting by protesting against this horrible government thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u51	A respectable president. I intend to agree with this proposal for a variation because it is necessary to discuss this big case. But I'm going to protest the highest words. Ministers for man's success in this sermon. It is simply protesting that the Minister and the Government, the greater part of the Council, present such a big case as the end of Congress. What kind of work is that? The matter, of course, has already been established. What's all this trailing about? Maybe a URL's a fortune word, chief. President, I don't know. But I would have thought it was the highest. A minister would do well to ask himself, " Is it any easier to look at myself and more carefully at the ministry that she directs in order for matters to get into the council sooner? ' It's a big deal. The issue to discuss after the bill is about whether we should agree to take the bill in general to treat the council. What if we drop it, we'll drop the synopsis, to the highest level. The minister of the state shall deliver us, and I hope to be here when it comes to this matter? [[The president calls.]] What if we take her down? They don't need a law bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u52	Madam President. For the very best of words. Minister and minister. paritaprevir Perhaps a farmer's Ármannsson would do well to bear in mind that this matter, in some form, has been placed in the consultation puzzle for some time. In fact, ask yourself, " Why could it not be recommended earlier here at the council, since the matter was said to be more and less ready for consultation before the council, for example, for the election? ' However, it may also be thought that the Ministry took two months to respond to comments in the consultation process and intends for the Senate to complete it over a week; yet, if the bill has been won, has been inside its contents, and now intends the council to initiate it on committees, calling out for reviews, and processing the comments made during a week. I don't think there's much fancy talk to be used in this discussion. I haven't seen so much disrespect for the council as it is around here, very rare. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u53	A respectable president. We're talking about this document we got this morning. That's what we're supposed to talk about now. The old protection laws protected, e.g. Not a pensioner, not in any way, neither a pensioner nor their spouse. That is why it is very important that we be careful about this bill and make sure that those under the protection of the State's Insurance Institute are protected by the protection laws of the government. Medical records also need to be addressed. One of the worst problems for a person is when medical records are abused by insurance partners and they get away with it. That's what the old protection law did. That is why we have to try to handle this primary issue of personal protection and address it carefully so that we can make sure that people can be sure that their personal information is protected.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u54	Madam President. I'd kind of like to call the highest. Prime Minister, an engineer in this government, asks her to be with members of the Parliament for careful legal procedures. We're trying to be careful here. These are laws that affect the whole community, the highest. Prime Minister, influence governments, businesses, big and small, employment, health systems, education systems, our whole system. We are also dealing with the Council's Conspiracy Directive on the European Order of Human Protection. It is a fitting subject. But there is something else to discuss on total law, the overall change that comes from the Ministry of Justice, which we don't know what has been doing with it. It's a clean addition. These are all kinds of changes. There are so many great interests that are underneath that I cry for the greatest. Prime Minister of joining members of Parliament. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We're the lawgiver. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u55	V.E.G. President. In advance, I would have expected a minister of the government to be established, including. of the procreation of the Generalis, which at the last moment presents a matter of humility toward members of the council. But to come here and accuse those who find these devices of witchcraft is beneath all caves, the highest. Minister. I just want to quote a good book, which we all should honor, with the permission of the Supreme Court. President. It says: "In respect, humility is a prelude. " I don't see that this Minister will be respected for some time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u56	Madam President. How is this bill coming into the council so late? If it was so ready, why didn't it come into the council first? Why is there such a big issue going into the council after just a few days, and we have to resolve another big issue that is a financial plan until the next five years? Why is this? Those who would like to be able to examine the discussion right after this council. We senators called for big issues in time because we didn't want to get into this situation that we're going through right now. Like what? paritaprevir Thorhild Sunna Ævarsdóttir pointed out that they have many calls for this bill because members of the council knew that it was a big matter, they had to go over it carefully, and they need to take time to do so. How is this work, Madam President? What does this government have to do with it?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u57	A respectable president. As we sit and work here, we do it for the people. We are elected to be here by the common people, and we represent different viewpoints and outlooks. The public prefers us to present us as well as we can, and then they come to their conclusions. In the Western world, this arrangement has been quite successful. It's called a representative democracy.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u58	A respectable president. I take my heart to every comment that has fallen here by reason of it. Congress members of the House of Justice and the role of the Parliament in our administration. In my first speech, I remarked that there had been some great talk here in my opinion. I'll keep it. I'll give you an example: It claims that the council is seeing for the first time, e.g. Stefán's Már Stefánsson's opinion of the induction process in all of this. This is simply wrong, as stated in Article III of Case 612, which presents itself specifically and is very well considered by the General and Education Committee in 2016. In particular, from February 2018, I would like to bring up the opinion of the management and monitoring committee, which was discussed in a very detailed way, according to a thorough review of Stefán Már' opinion. Then I would also like to draw attention to the fact that in this bill to the protection law, a detailed discussion of the past and made clear an explanation of the importance of the comments received during the consultation process is taken into consideration. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Finally, I'd like to mention that people are talking about the fact that there's a document here being presented for stamping the government. [[The president calls.]] Then I'd like to point out that this case is a strictly developed case from the European Union and is derived from it and will be slightly changed here by the rules set by the European Union. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u59	President wants to remind you. Councilmen to respect speech class.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u60	V.E.G. President. I come up here like any other senator to discuss this matter. I won't vote against the case. But when it comes to changing the practice and respect of the Generals and the streets, I think of what was called 15 minutes before three on the cocks back in the day. [[For example, that was the best chance.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] It wasn't always the best chances. I must admit that I shared in it too. [[Up front.]] At that time, people were often cranky, unwieldy, and often very drunk, not brushing their hair or paying their hair, waiting for the courage needed to offer some lady to dance and not doing it until 15 minutes before three. It reminds me a little bit of what we're witnessing today. As a result, I feel that this does not bring glory and respect for the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u61	A respectable president. I must agree that I am very sorry that this case has come in here. I wish it had come in sooner and I wish I could have thought it had been better. To that end, there are specific explanations that have been considered in some respects. It has to do with some efforts to achieve these issues into two relevant solutions and contact with the European Union. It doesn't make any difference that it's not good how late this case is coming in here. As a result, I want us to reflect on the fact that the council should consider just how we interact with the European Union in the EEA and with the government at any given time. The current government is to take to heart how it operates on that matter. I hope we can get along with each other to work this thing as well as we can because it's a huge case and we don't have time to do this well.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u62	Madam President. V.E.G. A minister of justice is not exactly paying attention to the matter by misleading the discussion. The Parliament's decree stands, by permission of the President: The Regulation shall be taken up as such in the national rights, but the Icelandic government does not have a choice for shape or method of induction of such types, such as writing. Nevertheless, it is recommended in the Regulation that in several aspects Member States can implement individual regulations and have the means to set rules or to compromise the regulations of the Regulation. In view of the scope of the changes and special rules to be set on the basis of the Regulation, the bill here must be written to a new global law on identity protection and the processing of personal information that will replace the law of No. 77/2000. At the same time, it is aimed at establishing the entirety of the regulations set out in the EEA Convention. Here, we are just making significant changes from the Regulation as it happens, and we need to discuss it in detail. V.E.G. The minister of justice is asked to be a little more humble when she comes up here and talks to members of the council. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u63	We see the importance of the Law of Personal Protection in view of the repeated court - and last week's case - the publication of personal information in their judgments. Personal protection has determined that this is a violation. Children's agent was meeting with the Court's Office, the administrative department of the justice system, during days when it was criticized that the personal information on children was published in court. This is a serious matter. Defending privacy is one of the most important matters in a democracies community. That is why we cannot do this cheerfully. That is why it is so bad how late it is. In contrast, there is a solution. We begin, as we are going to do now, this matter is to be discussed and won, the members of the Committee, the members of this council. This assembly is postponed, that the people may know, but it is not broken up this spring. [[The president calls.]] You can get back together later. The Congress can come together and finish this over the summer, so the commission has the opportunity to win this thing over the summer; the longer time is available for the review process. [[The president calls.]] But the general president seems to want to push this forward for ten days. [[The president calls.]] No, we need to take a good time. The committee can do this after 1. Um, even if a council is postponed, and took the case later in the month or in July. [[The president calls.]] It is possible if we are going to do it well. Otherwise, this government has accepted to make it reckless. [[The president calls.]] This can have serious consequences for personal protection in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u64	The president reiterates his desire to the council, respecting the lesson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u65	Madam President. The answer was quite clear. Einarsson They're talking about a lot. This was shown in the case of the highest. Minister of Justice that the EU is making us feel good about something by sending us this. This is about the natural process of a contract, which is often called the EEA Convention and consistent in that contract. That contract has been in effect for 24 years if I know my math correctly so I don't find the Minister's language appropriate for him. This is only a case that needs to be passed through the council because we are members of the EEA Convention. The European Union is not being pursued in this matter as far as I think it is. Minister be suggesting. I think it's very important to keep that in mind. Finally, I'm going to make it clear that I will support it with variations because there's some way this case must be handled. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u66	It is suggested by the president that the fourth session will be discussed, as shown in Article 4. 77st. Parliamentaries, who are physically related. Let it be considered approved if no one says the same thing. [[Foreground on, we object.]] It has been used to protest so that things will not be discussed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u67	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill for the role of personal protection and the processing of personal information, a 622th case. 1029. This is a new global law in the field of personal protection that will replace the law of No. 77/2000 on personal protection and the management of personal data. The European Parliament and Council Regulation (EEC) has been implemented in 1999, but this directive has now been replaced in the European Union by the Council Regulation and the Council Regulation (EEC). 2016/679, from 27 April 2016, on the protection of individuals in the processing of personal data and on the free sharing of such information and the breakdown of Directive 95/46/EC (the general personal protection principle), as this new Regulation is fully named. This bill suggests that the general personal protection program mentioned here will be introduced into Icelandic law. The general personal protection principle includes the most extensive changes made in the European Union's personal protection legislation for about 20 years. The proposals for Regulation were set forward in 2012 and adopted at the EU level in April 2016. However, the rules did not take place in the European Union until May 25. Iceland will be committed to this Regulation through the EEA Convention but it is aimed at setting up the Regulation at meeting the European Commission at July II, as it will be discussed in another Senate case that will be discussed later this afternoon. In this light, you might point to - in view of a discussion that took place on a vote on variations in this language, where there is no qualification. Congress officials find this too late to be too late - that it is really my opinion that the matter is rather too early if we look at the payment and recording into the EEA Convention. While it is not so early that it or the council cannot be overreached, there is something wrong with them. The objective of the bill is to contribute to the harmonization of personal information in harmony with core principles and rules of personal protection and privacy and to ensure the reliability and quality of such information and their free flow into the internal market of the European Economic Area. However, it is also aimed to legalise the requirements of the general personal protection principle as set out in the EEA Convention and set specific requirements for filling and supplementary Regulation as per any of the requirements of this Regulation. This is not usually possible. In the European Union regulations to be implemented by the EEA Convention, there is usually no scope for compromising the regulations of this Regulation. In this case, there's a little space. As I mentioned earlier, it will result in the EEA community service taking up this Regulation in the EEA Treaty but according to Article 7. he shall guide the text of the Regulation as such into the land's rights as I shall reprove them now, and therefore the Regulation must be legally established as a whole. Normally, there is not the same scope as when existing laws on personal protection and the handling of personal information, No. 77/2000, incorporated materials of the EU since 1995. An example of leibility in the bill, so I mention something, is that countries themselves have rules about using a social security number. Another example shows a set of values against the dead. There the Kingdom can decide what to do with it. In other respects, the bill shows where and how it is suggested that space be used here on land. A respectable president. This is the product of a great deal of work that has taken place in the past few months and is lost in preparing for the implementation of the Regulation. The prime writer of the bill I recommend here is Professor Björg Thorarensen, who was assisted by a staff with representatives of the Ministry of Justice, Perone Protection and the Management Board's Office. It was determined by the task force to determine the implementation of the bill that a new personal protection law would be both unacceptable and difficult to understand to the public if it contained only regulations and exceptions from the Regulation. Thus, in order to give a new personal protection law a general statement is a process in addition to special regulations, exceptions, and supplementes allowed to be made into the bill of the main terms and content of several of the core regulations of the Regulation. Thus, in comments to each of us as a bill, we find explanations that apply to the principles of this Regulation, e.g. whether it is new; explanations found in the introductions of the Regulation; and more. The aim is to follow the wording of the Regulation so that there will be no discrepancies and refer also to further regulations on the content of the regulations of the Regulation. The bill thus serves not only to legalize the whole Regulation but also to set total laws on the subject, which will be published and supplemented. It is important that all the rules on the subject and the explanations of the main substances be made available in one place and that the regulations be published as a package leaflet with the bill. I believe that there is a great profit in this format for all those who must cooperate with the requirements of the European Regulation and, according to my opinion, with the better option of maintaining their rights in personal protection. A respectable president. Although most of the core issues of the EU Directive from 1995, e.g. Principles on the processing of personal information, rights of the registered and responsible person, remain unchanged in the Regulation are laid up some fundamental changes and improvements to current regulations. It's reflected in the bill. Changes include some examples that I'm going to get to swaddle here. First, there is new recommendations on the geographicity of the Regulation, which will apply to the implementation of all enterprises which work with the personal information of registered persons in the European Economic Area. It thus applies to all enterprises that offer products and services to individuals on the inner market regardless of whether the process takes place within the region or not. Then there will be new obligations to those who work with personal information and are defined as responsibilities and processing providers. These include measures to ensure safety processing of personal information, measures to prove that the rules, so-called responsibilities, are required to maintain a record of processing, strict reporting rules for security failures that may result in personal injury and the appointment of personal protective agents, for example. By means of the bill, the right individuals are strengthened. In terms of personal information about them, they are given added protection and increased control over how they are handled. The requirements for the implementation of information approved by individuals are stricter, and companies are obliged to make terms for the approval more transparent and accessible, and to make them understandable. Individuals have the right to access personal information and receive it in available form and to have it transferred to another responsible. There is also the right to be forgotten, with certain conditions fulfilled. Personal protection agencies will be greatly promoted, and their independence will be guaranteed, and there will be huge increases in authority and monitoring measures. For example, they will be able to place high governmental guiltys due to violations of the law, up to 2.2 billion for the most serious violations or 4% of the total company, whichever is higher. At that time, the cooperation of the European Protection Agency will be greatly increased and there will be a system for payment at one site, i.e. persons who claim to be metabolised may consult one local HMO even though there is communication between countries. European Human Protection Agency is established as the role of the so - called 29. A workgroup that has been active so far. There is a working group in the European Union and EFTA countries that have been discussed with the interpretation of the existing directive. This group has also had a suitable role, but it has been totally without authority. The group has published directions and opinions, has been a universal assembly area. Now, this working group is going to survive and we're going to take the European Protection Agency. This will include representatives from the surveillance institutions of each Member State and representatives of the European Environmental Protection Agency. The Human Protection Council is aimed at ensuring compliance in the implementation of the Regulation. That, in fact, is the case. to provide guidelines, opinions and recommendations in relation to the implementation of the Regulation. At this time, issues that may arise between the surveillance authorities in the Member States can be determined by binding conclusions to theefficient government. I'm stating that this can be a binding and burdensome conclusion for control and not for individuals or lawyers in these states. A respectable president. So I've made clear the objective of the bill, the content of the bill, the selection of the induction route, and the main changes involved in new personal protection laws. It is clear that new protection laws will include a great improvement in the quality of the individual and the protection of their right to privacy, which is protected from a constitution. There are special reasons for this matter. Among other things, society as a whole, individual, business, institutions, and all persons working with personal information about individuals. Thus, it is difficult to find such a wide range of laws as broad as the one mentioned here. This matter has been prepared and discussed in the past year. When the European Union's personal protection principle was adopted in April 2016, a two - year lead-in period was expected to be for all to prepare for the requirements and changes of a new Regulation to be implemented in Europe on May 25, 2018. Despite the fact that the Regulation would not commit Iceland until it had been adopted in the EEA Convention, preparations for new regulations for the Ministry of State, then the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Peroney, and indeed, the State Department of State, were immediately initiated. Governments have encouraged timely preparation for a new act of order. Personal protection has been provided for an extensive presentation on the topic and effect of the Regulation. The Agency has, e.g. conducted by a number of professionals and groups, companies and institutions, including in the field of health and education, considering the main changes and the necessary preparations for the implementation of the Regulation. The Ministry of Justice has also participated in or had access to a presentation on the subject of new rules, including on public events, although professional promotion was the most prominent part of Persian protection. In addition, Peritoneal protection has been published and published on its website a number of topics, such as the instructions for implementing a specific directive in the Regulation, for the personal protective agent, for the failure of security, the approval of the processing of personal information, as well as the duties of responsible and processing providers according to the new protocol. A respectable president. Now it's time for regulations to be recorded in the EEA Convention. As noted, it has already been implemented in Europe. So there is a great interest in completing this matter as quickly as possible to ensure the security of the citizens for privacy, and especially to ensure that the European Union's consistent rules are valid so that we can avoid unnecessary bumping of personal information between Iceland and other EEA countries. Finally, I want to say that during discussions at the Assembly Hall, there have been accusations of grueling practices on these topics and that this matter is too late. As I mentioned at the outset, however, there may be a valid perspective on the subject that the matter may be too early. It is now customary for Iceland to introduce the types of the European Union in the EU Convention - as it states we must do and we are committed to do - the recording takes place first and then comes to the induction. That is how the council is accustomed to work, and that is how I would have wanted it this time. However, this Regulation is specific to a number of aspects, but particularly that it requires that enterprises and institutions in the European Union violate the Regulation if they provide personal information to countries and countries that have either not taken up this Regulation or have not received a special witness from the European Union for adequate personal protection. In this case, there is a theoretical possibility that there could be an exchange of personal information between Iceland and Europe, just as there can be an exchange of personal information between European Union countries to countries that have not been witnessed by the European Union and we are talking about a third state. We'll see about that. I'm not worried about the next loss that the SEC is a problem, but I understand the concern of the economy in Europe. This is as low as it is in Europe as here. I understand the concern of the economy because of not being able to fulfill this directive if they are involved in business with countries outside the European Union. Indeed, the procedure in the European Union can be found, the way this has been done by it. The EFTA countries are not taken into account in these areas but are simply expected to adopt the EEA contract in this way, in such short notice, and, as is the case today, once the Regulation is implemented in the European Union. In fact, the situation has crossed over with the European Union and is waiting to be settled at a meeting of the European Commission in July. But we expect the matter to be settled there. I agree with those views. The general members of the council, such as any member of the Parliament, should have the final words; including the contents of all the rules set out here. However, we live in that we have made a commitment to the EEA agreement, and we are very limited in this matter, especially in this great case, though, as I have mentioned in this history, a few factors might be considered to further expand. A respectable president. I suggest that the bill be following this discussion. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u68	A respectable president. Some people are late, but they're coming, so I'll start my answer on the positive notes. Then I'd like to ask the president to allow me to skate a little bit on the surface, and I haven't had the little ones that have passed since I had this bill in my hands to learn about it by now. But I would like to ask the minister in two or three things: One thing, perhaps, fearful detail. When we have a legal bill that contains the word 'Environment', with a certain article very often, I ponder the clarity of the rights, and regulations can be placed on the basis of their laws. Won't it be a little grizzly and even hard for the public to read from it? When you read Icelandic law, you will expect the Regulation to be the Icelandic Regulation based on Icelandic law. For the European Regulation, I would like to ask, because in Article 5. The bill says that the regulations of the Regulation go beyond the requirements of these laws: How does it look about the ideas of the State's office? What it looks like if the EU/2016/679 Regulation is changed outside Brussels and this directly affects the Regulation, as stated in Article 5. This bill has a direct right effect in Iceland? Isn't that where we're at some kind of ice cream? Finally, I'd like to ask in a little phrase class. Since I am a philosophical intellectual, I would like to know what this philosophical conviction is, which is spoken of in the commentary of Article 3. [[The president calls.]] That's where I would've preferred to see words like a '-biological look' in relation to the context.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u69	A respectable president. Hv. A senator thinks it's late. I have naturally described it in my history that I think it is even too early. The terms and regulations of the bill should be considered. The protocol is specifically defined in Article 3. the bill so that it has a special legal significance in the bill, i.e. with reference to the Regulation it is being referred to the European environmental protection principle, which has been abbreviated by GDPR on the English language, so it should be clear. Hv. A senator also wondered what appears in Article 5. Please refer to any failure of the text of this bill, i.e. the law text, is stated that the bill includes law text and, on the other hand, a package of Regulation itself, so the Regulation itself is part of the bill. With a 5. these texts are being excluded from agreeing the value of the Regulation. It is absolutely unavoidable according to our commitments in the EEA activities that when we implement the Commission regulations they apply. There's nothing new. We are not doing this for the first time to adopt EU Regulation into the European Union. This is often done. Then the text as it comes from the cow, if you could put it that way, and there's no room for a transfer of Icelandic lyrics. But here was a chance. That's why this text is set. It's quite clear that it's the regulation itself that has the legal value of this in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u70	Thank you very much. President for doing the highest thing. A minister might have to, i.e. To go back in time. I didn't say it was too late, it was the Minister's word, but I'm glad they were mine because when a week of the council is left a little late. The minister was unable to answer the last part of my questions earlier, I'm afraid to say the phrase "philosophical conviction." Something I've heard out of my mind that this is where officials hold the interpretation that we're bound by some translation. To this end, I would like to present to the secretary some of the official languages of the European Union. Perhaps the English translation of the New World Translation, which contains the official permission of a president, has the potential for religion or philosophical convictions, which may make sense in this phrase. If we look at the German edition, it is referred to as ▪relgioge under whattanschautilche. It's just a world view, it's a vision. In French, it is ◯les constructions religeus ou pho·pho·phi·phiʹriques; in France, it is ▪les convictions regieus eu·po·losophiques. So, we're together, and it's showing that these are parallels, they're beliefs in the religious field, and there's some of the other principles that we're in today's law. It seems to me that it's the most relevant thing with the northern nations that are framing in these new terms that don't fit completely into the legal environment as it is right now. Norwegians are e.g. ... withthereelionalemployer filos fish overbeevising in the beat to ours. So I reiterate the question to the Minister as to whether it would be better to talk about how to live, as we do at other places in the law library, where we are considering the same thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u71	A respectable president. I take my whole mind under the cheek of my head. In this case, regarding the concept translated in Icelandic as a philosophical conviction, if I recall correctly, a candidate's translation of the lyrics of the European types we are taking in. I thought it would be better to believe that there was the term "evaluation" because I think it's us Icelanders, and it covers what this law is actually meant to take. But the State Department's Translation Centre has translated this concept, possibly with some precedent in mind or such. We translate into these types, whether they are translated from English into French or from French into German, there is no problem. It's not a custom problem, but it's very important that you talk about the same thing with all these concepts. In this case, experts in this field who have handled Iceland's translation in this case have relied on no other than to translate the term from the words. But, hey. This should be discussed by a committee and perhaps by some explanation. Especially was the State Department's position on the ideas we had at the Ministry of Justice to turn this into a lifeblood organization or philosophy. It was not agreed to be advisable.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u72	Mr. President. It's become clear that the problem is, like, the highest level. A minister himself wrote a law code that has greater impact than just the one in this regard. It involves virtually all aspects of national life and, including industry. In this context, what I'm most concerned about is what I hear about the lack of response to the complaints and comments of the workplace. It is quite clear that this is a significant case in which the Ministry seems to go far beyond the Regulation, even asserts that, in comparison with the Northern countries, we consistently choose the most stringent option, as it were, in situations where we have just something to say about the extraction. That's especially two things I stick around in the first round. On the one hand, it appears to be a significant distinction between public and private sources, e.g. the need to determine whether or not the job documents should agree with the regulations of the Regulation. This is, of course, an important factor, since public members are under the bill, under the exception of the job documents. Of course, this is a huge case and can be, both public and private, very complex to hold, but for some reason the private people, but today in fact, there are no legislation available to these worksheets, i.e. the right of the public to access them, fully submits to the Regulation under the bill, with the related cost of employment. [[The president calls.]] Minister missing now. Second, my concern is that of guilty laws that seem to be rising considerably from what has been commonly practiced so far and in reality were hiding large sources of Perone protection there at first glance. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u73	A respectable president. I thank the captain for the opportunity to discuss just the advice that was offered. The job and really all the rural communities and any major organisations that have been interested in this and have handled with much personal information. There was a press conference with these agents before the bill was presented in a retraction of the consultation mystery. We received very helpful tips from all these sources. Then we received further comments and suggestions. We considered very many of them, especially comments received from our former workplace. A senator, a body of professional organizations, who had sent a collective review, along with other professional organisations, and comments. Many factors, therefore, have been taken into account. All of this is clear and detailed in chapter 9 of an article with the bill entitled Council. In particular, this comment on the job situation is made on page 5. 49. Hv. A senator specifically asks about work documents and believes that there are conflicting rules about private and public authorities in this regard. It is to answer that the European Regulation is not involved in private labour papers. When for that reason, it is very difficult for us to establish rules in this matter about private work papers. This may show us how we felt under the rule.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u74	Mr. President. I must now say that this answer is disappointing, especially if you look to the viewpoints of the highest category. A minister would like to be in the line of employment. This may be a reason, since the Regulation is not about private documents, allowing these same private employees to enjoy the doubt of the matter. If governments believe that they have the authority to exclude the public bodies in particular when it comes to handling employment documents or access or demand public access to public employment documents, such as it is currently in information laws, why should the private hands be imposed that they keep their arms around them and provide full access to such government documents that are not obliged to do so, neither in current information legislation on the land nor assume that they will continue to do so? This leads to some disappointment because it actually seems that there is a somewhat softer hand for the government when it comes to the personal protection law than to a private person, many of whom are in a very difficult position at cost to handle and hold on to and preserve such documents. That's why the answer is the highest. Minister a few disappointments. I would also be interested in hearing the highest viewpoint. Minister when it comes to guilty and penalties. When I asked that question, the minister was not here. It is critical that there is a significant rise in the current amount of money without any obligation to do so. It seems to be at the highest level. A minister may simply be deciding on his alone to double the guiltys of professional and rural life, which have also criticized the same, and that is completely unprecedented guilty of the state of state and no evidence to support it, with reference to the Regulation of the European Union or other condemnations here on land. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u75	A respectable president. In terms of the processing logs and the possibility that an individual member should be overlooked in the same way as the public, it is quite clear that the Regulation does not allow this. The wording is very clear in that regard. For this reason, of course, there may be the evidence on the European Union and on the European Union that information that has been produced by the official organisations can all be much more personal and sensitive than does the firm's own business. I agree, though. A senator says that it is not necessarily that way. Of course, it may be an enterprise that handles very delicate personal information. I'm just encouraging you. A global and educational committee to make a special examination of their confidence in bringing some similar information into the bill. I'm not against it at least, but we need to be aware that this is a very tight time for the Regulation. But I think it's worth one Mass to see if any of these things could be introduced into the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u76	Mr. President. I now agree with many members of the council here who have spoken and wondered why they have gone so far in fines. This may be due to the fact that we do not have a proper understanding of why this course was chosen ahead of others. I'm afraid the bill has been before since March 15th. I'd like to hear more about this from a minister; she mentioned a few examples, but I didn't think they were completely clear. First of all, I wanted to hear what changes have been made on the bill since the signs published in the article on March 15 and then in particular with the comments that have been made to the interviewers; how many comments from consultations have not been received, which are the points. I'd like to know how the bill changed from the drawing and until it appears to us here. I would also like to use this opportunity to draw special attention to what is presented in the European Union case, since we are discussing consultation. On page 18. In 55 C.E., the Ministry does not challenge the results of the EU's cost assessment on the basis of which it provides the basis for which it shows that the relationship is a different approach than the Ministry in evaluating the cost-effect of the bill. Today, the European Union has expressed great concern for the expense of the bill's introduction. What difference is there between the judgment of the Ministry of Justice and the state of Iceland? Tells you the highest. Minister that it will affect the way rural society manages to process this important bill? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u77	A respectable president. As for the guilt, so I mention it, I couldn't answer it. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson, who asked a question like that. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir. I call attention to it, or my rights, that the Regulation is absolutely about the money of government guilty. We're tied to bringing in these sums. This, of course, is huge sums, huge fines, that can fall upon parties who are exposed to violations of the personal protection principle. Of course, the matter is urgent, but we will see how this will develop. On the other hand, the bill also contains day tickets. The Human Protection Protocol does not require a day's fine, but it allows the states to have laws for day - to - day living. A law of personal protection has been written in Icelandic law for 18 years. In this regard, there is no change. On the other hand, I think I'll be right about it if I say - I'm sorry, I haven't looked at it completely at it -- that day's fines have never been handled in the SEC here. However, it has been thought that the land had the tendency to keep people on the subject. On page 18. 49 on the bill make a number of comments, including the work community, as I have mentioned. It explains how we have dealt with it. I specifically mention things that I find very interesting to myself, which is the personal protection of the dead. I agreed to turn it into the drafted bill that the personal protection of the deceased extended to ten years. [[The president calls.]] It was moved down to five years as if in the bill presented here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u78	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister on the counter. I still need some of the major changes that have occurred since March 15 until now, from that draft. What are the largest changes we saw from the March 15 down to now? And then I'd like to hear from the top. Minister, how many regulations are chosen. What is it and how many are the choices for Iceland, i.e. Where do we have some sort of disposal space? I also want to make small comments that are the best. A minister has agreed here that the matter may be too early. There are many reasons why I don't understand anything about that statement. Well, first of all, you did the highest. A minister would assume that the case would be submitted by the Government's Constitution in January. I ask myself, " If she finds 15 minutes at the end of the council, a week before the end of the council, too early, why would she ever publish it in January? ' Was it possible for the case to be given a careful political treatment, so that we could settle down, so that we could evaluate where we want to make room and where we don't? Don't you think it's a bit ridiculous of the highest? Minister to speak of this matter as being too early?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u79	A respectable president. It's true that I had at a Congress paper introduced my plans to submit the bill in January. Then, of course, I assumed the joint EEA committee had taken up the design for the EEA deal. When I mention that I think this may be too early, it is with the premise that the types of the European Union that we have to introduce here are first adopted into the EEA contract before they are presented here at council. That's just what I'm talking about. In this case it is as if the European Commission, on the part of the European Commission, was to resolve the situation in such a way that it is available for the release of the joint EEA committee. A month ago, I expected the hearing to be held at a meeting in June, before April, but this has been delayed. It is now established that the matter will be addressed at a meeting of the European Commission in July, there. It's certainly unorthodox, to say the least, that this is a bill required for the introduction of the EU by the time it is adopted into the EEA Convention. That's just what I mean when I say it, maybe it's too early. But all of this is rooted in the nature of the matter. It is asked how the bill changed since March 25. That in itself did not take much material changes since its introduction on March 15. The changes had taken place in the consultation process years earlier. But mostly, on the bill given to the members of Parliament on March 15, or was able to study it, all the comments, the entire series of articles that are very important, were missing in order to understand the explanation and purpose of the bill and interpret it in the context of the Regulation's text. There was no such thing as March 15th, but there is, of course, a person's identity in this bill. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u80	Mr. President. This is a bill for a new total law, and I will discuss it in various ways in my talk later today. There's a lot of things in this case. A minister of justice that I have to ask, perhaps making comments about, too, because of the highest. The Minister of Justice claimed that here members of Congress were being criticized for resorting to grueling practices. It's just wrong. There was no statement that the employees were being criticized. There's gonna be a secretary who's going to have to have a degree of privacy and accept that criticism alone. Of course, it was being criticized. The Minister of Justice would provide a total law, such as self - expression, total law, change of the laws on personal protection and the processing of personal information. This is not the case with employees who seek advice. Absolutely not. This is totally responsible. Minister of Justice. V.E.G. The Minister of Justice here introduces these total laws, 147 pages, thank you, with some fimbsulfab over the fact that these are changes and examples of how Member States can make changes, e.g. the use of landmarks and information on the dead. At the same time, on page 19. 25 in this piece of paper, i.e. At the beginning of this article, we are talking about the scope of the changes and regulations required on the basis of Regulation. It's the words in the report with the bill at the highest level. Minister of Justice just offered up. Then members of Congress must ask, and immediately: What are these changes, the highest. Minister of Justice? We cannot be getting something about a little social security change and information about dead individuals. [[The president calls.]] It is fundamentally essential that the minister informs from A to A what is changed from the Regulation that the members of Parliament could study. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u81	A respectable president. I mentioned this with the hired staff of the advisers in view of the word here that the minister should consider changing practices in the Ministry. I thought that would be the way of the Ministry, not just the Minister himself. However, the person standing here does not write this bill. Also, the one present does not write the report with it and has not been involved in negotiations with the European Union or the Commission and all the other EFTA countries on the development of these issues with the European Commission at the European level. There are a number of people involved in this case and, let me assert, have been working on it for two years, in fact, longer than the fact that this Regulation was introduced in the European Union before the 2016 Regulation was adopted. That's what I'd like to say. I think that's what we're talking about. Councilmen may have some objective discussions here, arguing with the Minister on the subject of this Regulation, the Regulation itself and the bill itself, and should merely be the first. There are several conditions of the identity protection bill, i.e. The Regulation allows for the implementation of several aspects. I've mentioned it. There are aspects of the personal protection of the dead. This is especially important if it is to be used in specific ways. The Kingdom has done so in various ways. In Sweden, there has been a five - year extension and in Denmark a ten - year extension. All of this will be discussed by the committee. There is also a condition that applies to the child's approval in connection with the information community. There is room for all countries to extend their ages. There's time for the state to update government finesse rules and make legal arrangements, so I'll give you an example here. [[The president calls.]] Also payback.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u82	Mr. President. It would have been a good question and perhaps a question would have been asked if the Minister could be restored to the rosary after an answer so that a minister could properly introduce the council of this bill she is offering, i.e. fully introduce the changes to the Regulation and how we are involved in the implementation of this Regulation. I think this bill should be won by the council at the minimum. This was shown in the case of the highest. Minister of Justice she didn't write this bill. Then I don't know if she's saying that she doesn't know the bill enough to be able to inform senators about what it says. If so, it is certainly respectful. If so, please ask the Minister of Justice to repeat the bill and study its contents so that a Senate can know what it says. There are some comments that must also be made. This has been repeated in the case of the Supreme Court. Minister of Justice that the European Union is somehow drawing its feet in this matter. It shall now be stated that this Regulation was written in April 2016, and the government should have begun. However, it was not until November of last year's appointment. Then it had the highest. The Minister of Justice is the minister of the seminary for nearly one year and is still. You may have wondered if it would have been better for you to try to appoint this committee earlier. But in March, the EU is sending the decision, three to five months after the European Union's response. [[The president calls.]] This is not to say that the European Union has been able to reduce the number of responses for the EEA Convention. [[The president calls.]] Absolutely not.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u83	A respectable president. It is true that a control group was set up in November. Long before that, there was a lot of work going on in the Ministry, both the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of State, to prepare for the recording and introduction of this Regulation. It was planned with a bill author on the spring or early summer to take on this project, to write new songs in this regard, although a billwriter could not get into it until autumn days. All the statements on other things and all the efforts to create a suspicion of work management and preparation in this large case, this complex and big language and an abnormal language, I find it unfair and really failure to reduce the importance of the grammatical discussion that needs to take place on the topic of this Regulation, the subject of the bill itself, and possibly any person would like to go to the European Union to the future when they face the situation, such as we do today, in order to implement a regulation without having been adopted into the EEA agreement by meeting and decision of the European Committee. That's what I'd like to say. Of course I know the contents of this Regulation. This is yet another debate over the content of the Regulation and the bill, and such efforts to make everything all the way out of confidence, I don't feel that the case is in the best interests of me. Of course, humans can read about it. This is made clear in the report what the law of the law itself contains because there is room for implementation. As a result of the nature of the object, the bill itself is the rules where the Regulation allows space. [[The president calls.]] That's why the bill is submitted.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u84	Mr. President. V.E.G. The minister of justice has considered certain points of the matter. I'd like to start by saying a few words about what some people have said, that's the possibility of just picking up a bit of the rule book, letting go of the checkpoint, or if it were possible to just say, "No, we don't want it. This general personal protection principle is based on two main measures. One is to establish a new and better sense of justice for individuals on the treatment of personal information. That's one thing in the world today. Information is being developed to the individual. They, according to this, determine when, when, and how information about them is being used. This is a revolution in the right protection of individuals. However, monitoring is being performed to ensure that the rules are applied in the same way, anywhere in the internal market, and to prevent the disruption of the levels of the enterprise having to turn to other monitoring partners. These pillars are not easily understood. It is impossible to accept only the rules of the subject but refuse to be included in a consistent surveillance program, even though there is room for the development of individual regulations, as shown in earlier discussions earlier today that were referred to in the conclusion itself. If Iceland refuses to adopt the rules, it will have a huge impact on Icelandic enterprises'ability to do business with other companies in Europe, as it can't be based on the fact that the exchange of information to Iceland is safe. Such an attitude would not only put an Icelandic company in trouble but also affect Norway and Liechtenstein. It would therefore appear that such an attitude, hard attitude, would upset the entire EEA society and would actually be comparable to our rejecting the European Convention's competitiveness. It's based on the EFTA countries speaking in one voice, arguing on how to take steps in the contract. It has been that way from the beginning and is really a prerequisite for the development of the two systems. Then I'd like to mention just a matter of opinion, at least, that is related to the two supporting systems of the EEA Convention. Here at the Council of the Last Weeks, even months, has both the highest. Financial and economic ministers and the highest. Secretary of State has been talking about the need to protect the two support systems of the EEA Convention. I think we can all agree with that. Now, however, we're dealing with a Senate decree. Secretary of State, in which search of the General Assembly is being made to reduce so-called administrative warnings due to the proposed recording of the general personal protection protocol in the EEA Convention. This option is to conclude that the decision of the joint EEA committee is the proposed agreement to block the two-part system substantially. In effect, this is some kind of a real solution. Despite the possibility that, as we have discussed earlier today at the General Assembly, according to the debate of the two Ministers, the government put the emphasis on discussing this matter into the basement, all the stones are rolled around, all the angle of view on the matter, without the fact that the matter has not been explained long before. For example, when it is said that this is actually a single useful solution, it is being referred to as a decision made by the joint EEA Commission that includes the European Protection Agency or the Committee having the authority to make decisions in the event of a dispute between two or more national organisations. These decisions are binding. Thus it may be that the European Protection Agency is making a binding decision to the protection of the Persians on the land. This arrangement is clearly indistinguishable by traditional interpretation of the two-part system, since it is generally assumed to be the EFTA monitoring agency that has authority to governments in the EFTA and not the European Union's institutions. In turn, this arrangement is practitionable and practical. When it comes to considering that one of the main purposes of the general personal protection principle, apart from measuring for huge physical benefits for individuals, it is to ensure that the monitoring of corporate behavior is both consistent and unscrupulous, business should be able to turn to one monitoring agency, but it is not necessary to live with the misunderstanding of interacting with more than one organisation if business has cross-borderd. There is also the possibility that individuals or companies will have special legal interests because of the decision made by the European Human Protection Agency can request a review of the European Court of Decision. The right to present such cases to the Court of the EU is the same for individuals and lawyers in the EFTA State as in the EU. The results of the joint EEA committee include the possibility of applying European Commission decision-making on a secure third state, decision-making to communicate information to non-EU countries prior to making such decisions in the EEA Convention. In other words, there is no need to wait for the decision to become part of the EEA agreement for it to be applied in this country. However, the EFTA government should not only report to the EFTA centre but also to the European Commission whether they intend to rely on such decisions immediately. In this way, the Commission is developing indirect monitoring of activities in the EFTA countries. Again, this will be any problem with the two supporting systems, which are determined by the EFTA monitoring centre. This arrangement means that European legislation will be carried out before becoming part of the European Economic Convention. Thus, in such cases, an individual or a attorney cannot carry his/her rights under the EEA Convention, and it is unclear what bioavailability he/she has to review courts, if any. Here it is important to remember that the EU citizens can request a review of the European Court on the decision of the European Commission. This court can invalidate such decisions if it is considered to be against the EU right. However, this arrangement we are discussing today, Mr. President, is not unique. The EFTA countries have previously turned away from the two supporting systems, although it may not have been done as strongly as it is now. In 2004, the EEA Convention was made up of a rule of medicinal products that included the European Commission's decision to provide marketing information on the European Medicines Agency. It might be reasoned that such decisions were under the supervision and implementation of the Commission, so it would have been normal to hide the EFTA monitoring department from making similar decisions for the EFTA State. In this case, the EFTA nation agreed that they would make a direct decision on the marketing of the European Commission within 30 days. The trouble was accompanied by a brief review of the fact that at this assembly the decision might be presented to the EFTA Court. In fact, the solution to European Economic Control and the European Safety Agency is also to the point of burning the potential for individuals and legislators to test the decision of the court. In fact, in the case of the European Economic Control Agency, EFTA is a formal decision making, but the decision should be based on a draft provided by the European institution. Therefore, there is limited material scope for assessment, leading to the limited review of the EFTA Court. The fact is, Europe's rights are constantly developing. The same can be said of the EEA Convention, which is based directly on the basis that the EFTA countries adopt European legislation. This development of the European Court is also positive. They are hiding the authority of independent professional institutions to make decisions regardless of political whims. The implementation and interpretation of measures are also being harmonized to create enterprises in the same competitive manner as the internal market. Similarly, the development of the inner market must be positive if a system is to be developed, where people only need to turn to one party to get their solution. Actually, the competitiveness of the EEA agreement is based on this view from the beginning of the contract. They will make sure, for example, that it is clear whether or not to go to the Commission or to the EFTA Monitoring Centre. In general, it is also so that Icelandic companies and individuals are more efficient at being part of this co-European system, which is a prerequisite for participation in the internal market. There won't be both getting out here. It would also be strange to make a requirement for the European Union that it stop developing its legislation and finding practical solutions for the internal market because it is not suitable for the two support systems of the EEA Convention. However, this development of the court and the implementation of the internal market must be accompanied by a regular assessment of whether the interests of Icelandic companies and individuals were not better guaranteed by full involvement in the European Union, where the introduction of decision-making was a guarantee and a similar level of right protection for reviewing courts and citizens of the European Union. I raise this here in all my kindness for this occasion that we stand here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u85	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a very good and informative speech on a subject that may be a bit technical. That is, as far as I understood, about how things work before this bill is approved, how it affects it. Maybe I'd like to ask a few questions. A senator was describing one support, as it is carried out in this description, how it affects the right of EU citizens and companies to Iceland and the services Iceland provides, for example, EU citizens or vice versa, i.e. whether the GDBR legislation affects Icelandic citizens and companies before we accept the bill we're dealing with right now. I would like to ask about a certain relevant example of how I as an individual can take my rights to companies in Europe and how a European citizen can take his rights for Icelandic companies out of GDPR.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u86	President. I appreciate the answer. I see why. The senator is asking what the situation is if it's not approved here. [[Up front.]] - Before it's approved here, but after the date expires, which doesn't happen until the beginning of July. Right on. As I understand this, it creates an enormous degree of justice. It is difficult for companies who work in the market and have taken this up to rely on the information coming from here. I think it's actually gone so far that they can't assume that that information is correct. Ergo: Can't take advantage of them or assume that they fall under existing conditions. So it's going to be a problem for Icelandic companies first. In terms of individuals and justice protection, the level of right protection available for individuals primarily to the situation in this country, as I understand it, has less impact on national information. I just have to admit that this is part of what I'm not sure of. I would have appreciated further discussion of that matter in here and then the comments of the parties who receive the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u87	A respectable president. I'm in exactly the same place. That's why I felt that I had a speech. A senator so good, this coverage that this was not part of the two-part system, that the legal arrangement was just different. You have seen this discussion in community media and elsewhere. If we keep accepting this bill, does GDBR still have an effect? I get conflicting messages. People who are involved in helping in the implementation of the GDBR legislation say that an Icelandic company may be subject to harm, although we have not agreed to do so here. But I'm stuck with the legal explanation that you hear from one place and another from another place. It's far from at best that it's so vague. That is why it does not help, for example, that the bill appears so late. We can't go over the reviews well enough, so don't ask the experts who will help us through the induction and a detailed review of the matter. As mentioned earlier, this is a huge bill. A synergistic effect is tremendous. There are 42 other laws in this bill. It is an exception to government sources of information for temporary purposes. Despite the failures, there are still some regulations that apply to the old protection laws. There's no small thing that needs to be considered.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u88	President. It's just that way, that's correct. If we reject this and go to vain land, we have a system that's broken down; I don't know if that's the right word, but it's pretty sick. Hv. A senator spoke of different interpretations by lawyers. I wanted to mention that I've seen that many companies, small and large, are preparing themselves, that's clear. Many of the enterprises, especially those who do not have their own legal institutions or experts in these matters, are waiting for the discussion here - what happens on the committee, the comments that will be called and received - in an effort to figure out the matter, perhaps making short ways to learn the full content of this extensive bill. There's a little different arm and something I'd like to see us take seriously during the discussion. To say that, I think it's perfectly clear that the level of right and wrong we're facing increases with what we're dragging out the matter. We may not have a problem exactly, but we really need to be careful. We're in the situation where we're forced, in the light of circumstances, to wrestle with ourselves, but we need to be very careful where we run.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u89	Mr. President. It is with joy that the person here uses the opportunity to discuss such an important subject of personal protection and to process personal information. It is the fundamental right of each individual to be careful when it comes to such legislation. Hence, it is also heavier than tears when it is done in this way. We have talked a lot about how this is possible today because it is evident in this way. Here we are, under the third part of the program, discussing the bill for the role of personal protection and the processing of personal information submitted to the General Assembly yesterday. And under the fourth part of the program, we're going to talk about a proposal for Congress as high as possible. Secretary of State has presented the widely established European Regulation on the confirmation of the decision made by the Joint EEA on the Change of XI. Annex and Protocol 37 on personal protection and the sharing of personal information. I think it would have been better to discuss the fourth part of the program because it has been very much discussing all the details involved in this and where it is taking place in a very pleasant Europe. There are a number of information we can find in this little piece of information here, and in fact, it would be very good to read both of them together. This is exactly what Member States have to change from the Regulation itself. For example, it states that this Regulation was adopted by the European Parliament and the Council of April 27, 2016. Then it became clear that something was coming. It was also decided that it would take effect on May 25, 2018, and in the Parliament's resolution, which is also just here, it says that this general personal protection program will develop within the European Union on May 25, 2018, last week. Yet it was being distributed yesterday and discussed here today. It is true that this Regulation has become valid in the European Union and on March 16. In a formal way, send the EFTA states to the European Union to make a decision on the recording of the European Commission into the EEA Convention. The report also shows that it usually takes three to five months to complete a court treatment to agree on a decision to enter this agreement. It has also been noted here today that Member States are authorized to either adopt the Regulation or make minor changes. As I hear, and then it can be corrected, I understand that the Norwegians have decided to take up the Regulation and not make changes as we are doing here. That may be what was requested earlier, especially because the bill is so late and is 147 pages, distributed last night, and then there is even more responsibility for the highest level. The Minister of Justice to properly explain the precise changes made in the Ministry of Justice on this European Regulation because the European Order has been established since April 2016. There we have been able to study it, those who enjoy reading European rules that are, of course, not many. On page 18. 14 In the Senate arrangement, there are some things that are also interesting. In view of the scope of the changes and special rules to be set here on land - i.e. not the Regulation but all the changes it has been decided to make - have been decided to set up a new total law, and of course it was stated in the highest case. Minister of Justice. I'm sorry to hear that. The Minister of Justice is simply saying to the members of Congress here at 1 Corinthians 15: 58. um, when the Minister introduces these entire laws, this form of his administration, that all members of Congress can read only what is in the report can only read in the bill how to make changes in what is stated in the Regulation. Wisha needed to talk about it today. It was distributed last night, with 147 pages. Since early this morning, there have been meetings with brief lunchtime, and members of Congress had no choice but to read the bill tonight and study the changes made in this Regulation. In particular, careful legalization is seen in the clarity of law. The clearness of law is absolutely fundamental in careful legalization. It cannot be overlooked that in this bill there are so many rules so vague and so confusing that law - trained people need to be experts, not only in the personal rights but also in the European standard of reading, to understand the right and the responsibilities of individuals and the duties of public institutions and companies. An article with the bill tells us that a decision was made to enter a total law code where it was thought that the law would be too difficult to understand if it was just the exception of the Regulation. It may be true, but at least by then, the laws of the law must be understandable. If, for example, you look at the penalty warrants and the laws of government guilty, the senator here would have to inform you that this is completely incomprehensible. One way or another, some of the requirements of this Regulation are to be referred to. And there we are not talking about any pennies, there's no cake here. Here we are talking about government fines that can study up to 2.4 billion dollars. And they are referred to the other and these regulations of the Regulation, which is then the European Regulation. It's in 46 str. The bill: ▪ The government's fine can study from 100 of yours. K. To 2.4 billion. or if your enterprise is up to 4% of your global total resources during the next year, whether higher, when the following principles of implementation have been violated, including: Acceptability criteria Five, six, seven, and nine. The Regulation, the Council and the Council of the United States, must be agreed on by the European Parliament. - That's the first provision listed in the list. You have to be pretty foamy on this book to see if it's something you're referring to, general citizen. Civilians can be punished and punished. 48th. The bill says that if a person's offense is dramatic, it can be imprisoned for up to three years. In the face of deliberate, profit - oriented offenses, and the personal details of a large number of registered individuals who are to be secretized by law or nature, they are to enter third parties or are to appear in public. It says that the individual may as well be an employee in a company as that the employee may be punished, he may be put in three years' prison at the same time as 2.4 billion dollars. The government ticket of the company. That's quite a burdensome song. I think we have to watch all this seriously. Who, then, has all this authority to determine government guilty or to commit day - to - day crimes that may not be found in the Regulation? It's just a novel, or not a novel - it was in older law, but it's just something that's been decided to have in those laws. Who can do that? Yes, there is a Persian protection. The chairman of the Persian government is one of those who wrote this bill or who served as members of the committee appointed in November. It has said that four times as many permafrost workers need a Persian protection so that Persian protection can fulfill the role set here in a bill, and we members of Congress are expected to accept the race. She says it takes at least to the four-fold staff headcount there. Then it is not out of the way to ask the highest question. Minister of Justice: Has this been expected in financial matters? Has this been expected in a financial program? Has it been assumed that we are not even laying a considerable responsibility for a government company or institutions that cannot be cared for in any way, such as the County Commission over the country? There's got to be money to follow. Of course, the four-fold staff group costs quite a sum, and it has to be absolutely guaranteed, Mr. President, that this is not being done on some dog field, that the inspector and the person who is supposed to impose such an important administrative ticket and have surveillance and a charge to the police - it must be ensured that the funds will follow. Otherwise, if we are not going to follow it, we can totally refrain from having such strict laws in Icelandic law. It is also minimal that this is done in a way that stakeholders are included, questioned, and taken into account. As for the role of Perone Protection, I think we'll be at least That's where we're gonna be careful.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u90	A respectable president. I stopped at something like that. A senator mentioned some changes from the Regulation, it would be good to get a list of them. There's something else that I think might be helpful to get too. The old law will fall away. Is there anything that falls between a cane and a dock there, something in the current protection law that's missing for some reason and that doesn't get used to this new one? A hint as far as this is concerned would be silent. In a financial plan, of course. A senator just mentioned Persian protection, how it needs to be expanded, is not much of a benefit in financing. It is not enough that there are four times as many workers and increase Persian protection, but it reduces contributions to the seminary, to the rights of individuals, to religion, and to the judicial system, from 14.1 billion to 13.5. Peritoneal protection to the extent that should be predictable on the basis of legislation is not apparent. We've been told that the legislation is very predictable and should have been expected in a financial programme. There are only some guidelines for education because of new personal protection laws. I've heard something about not strengthening Persian protection, but I have no idea how much. Don't seem to be saying much to the jury. I was wondering what. A senator might have found something I couldn't find.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u91	Mr. President. This is precisely the financial strategy; it is not to say that it has been taken into account the points given to the committee that four times the staff need to be protected by Perone. On the contrary, in recent years, the number of paintings is just spoken of as increasing considerably in Peron Protection, but in spite of much efficiency, 575 cases were open and unsolved in February 2018. It says here, by permission of the President: It is assumed that in the years to come the increase will continue. It is just talking about the issues that are daily on the Plains of Peritoneal Protection and not merely saying that a significant increase is needed by employees over this new role of Perone Protection. You see, this is a new role. There's a much bigger job of keeping watch and putting on punishments and taking government decisions or charges to the police or whatever they are. It is said that monitoring fields should be added to the Agency, which is assigned to implement a structured variety of activities with personal information. However, it is not apparent that considerable funds are being given to this group of lawsuits.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u92	A respectable president. In a financial program, on page 20. 228, says by permission of the President: ▪ Seconds [in this field of matter]: Peritoneal protection: Induction of new personal protection laws is going well. This is another focus, for there is nothing to be found on this in the chapter ▪ Targets, criteria, and actions (s), which are really what governments should do, except instruction for new personal protection legislation and the procedure as being taught by new European legislation on the field of personal protection that informs on individual rights and the duties of companies and institutions according to the new Regulation and timetable 2018-2020. Also, education is due to the role of the P.A. to which all institutions and many companies are obliged to nominate. That is also a timetable to 2020. It was during the last week that we were running out on a certain deadline, and in the middle of that year, later this year, that we slide out every other time, compared with the debate of the senator earlier. This is, I think, the problem of sums up that we're trying to point out. Not enough. We're being dropped by another giant dandelion. We're going to finish a financial programme, the second discussion, there's no small thing, it's definitely playing together, and this forethought that we members of the Parliament should have made use of is not used in the financial program itself. I'm having a bit of a hard time doing this and looking for a discussion about it now in 1st. As mentioned earlier, we got the bill yesterday. It's really just the first lecture in the first few hours, as you may have done in school.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u93	Mr. President. How interesting it is to read what is presented in a newly developed financial program in this regard! It also includes goals, standards, and actions involving personal protection, spoken of when it comes to the rightness of individuals, that the objective is that a person's rights are made clear and accessible by means of a clear government source of information. Now we have 147 pages. a bill in your hands as the highest. The Minister of Justice wants to take effect before long, and before the Senate takes a vacation - if it goes on vacation, it might be good to get some information on this. It shows that the 2019 set, which is next year, following the introduction of the new protection laws, is to put together children's education in cooperation with SAFTs and those who work with children on their rights and work to increase their self - payment through a Web site. Subject set 2018. There is nothing about education about the revolution here. It's just said teaching children about their personal protection. That certainly is good. For example, it is changing the Regulation so that at 13 years of age, children will need to accept certain things, according to the bill presented here, when they enter various social services and such. Who will present this to the blessed children?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u94	Mr. President. Finally, finally, finally, finally, takes the highest. The Minister of Justice is moving forward and presenting the bill for the role of personal protection and the processing of personal information. Finally, I say. According to the General Assembly plan, the Senate will conclude its work on June 7th. This has occurred since the Council was submitted at the beginning of the council. That's hardly surprising. For years the European Union's new CDC was going to go into effect on Friday and be introduced into the EEA Convention. That's hardly surprising. It has been a long time before the General Assembly would have to issue new laws on personal protection and the processing of personal information in order to meet its obligations under the EEA Convention and ensure that Icelandic citizens and businesses will have the same rights and rights as the other EEA countries, and will not be affected by any mismanagement or inquisitability. That's hardly surprising. Mr. President. Nothing in this case was unpredictable or should come to the highest level. The Minister of Justice, or the government of Katrín's daughter, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, is surprised. On the other hand, what is surprising is the practice we have in this matter. But no one else, Mr. President, I'm afraid there's nothing surprising about the work. V.E.G. The Minister of Justice seems very often to be misconstrued, and the government has apparently set aside promises of improved work, the procreation of the II body, a consultation on big issues, and an increase in confidence in the Generals. Sadly, though, the work in this case confirms something else. Either the government does not mean anything by what it says or by what it says - which is a more reasonable explanation - that the government simply cannot hold back from fulfilling its promises. Mr. President. The issue we discuss is complex. It's complicated. It's about important rights. It places much new obligations on those who manage personal information and the rights of those discussed. It's part of the EEA deal. It involves important control arrangements. Despite all of this, the government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, plans to distribute the case to the general council yesterday, takes it to 1st. To this day and expect the matter to be closed by the end of the council. Is the government really serious? Yeah, I'm sorry, she seems to be serious with this whole thing. May 8th. I directed a verbal inquiry to the highest level. Minister of Justice on what the contributions to this matter are. I asked, among other things, by permission of a president: ▪ Why is this bill not put before the council for discussion? In answer to the highest. Among other things, a minister said by permission of the president: It is another matter that the bill is recently completed at the Ministry of Justice, has been evaluated at the Ministry of finance, and is being lectured by the Ministry of Presidency. I'm planning to put it before the Council in the next few days. Mr. President. The word is famous for its lengthy expression. Clearly, over the next few days, this is not the same. For the next few days, the maximum. Ministers turned 20. There are quite a few days in view of the fact that the council was completed in 30 days. Again, you must wonder why this is the case. To be honest, I don't understand. Mr. President. Following this discussion, the highest point was made. The Minister of Justice for the Council of Congress, e - mailed that the bill was found on the board's so-called consultation guide. As to this excellent consultation, the president's permission says on that page: The aim of the consultation puzzle is to increase the transparency and potential of the public and stakeholders to share in policies, regulations, and decision-making of public bodies. Here, in one place, you can find all the languages of counsel that have been published for consultation with the general public. You see, it is. The Council of the United States points out the approach to finding out more about this important subject. Is this an example of increased consultation, improved work ethic, and respect for the work of the Generals? Is the common council just to trust in their consultations in order to find out what the princes are doing? Noteworthy, then, is the fact that in the beginning of March, the bill was published in the language. However, the entire report was not published at the time. For example, there was a lack of control - based opinions. It did not contain comments on a few articles that, of course, are vital to the full understanding of the regulations and the translation of them. As you can see, the bill has not changed since it was published in the consultation mystery. It is known that there are many opinions on the content of this Regulation and how it should be implemented. There must be a careful review of all these matters. Mr. President. On May 25, on the day of the EU personal protection program, a press release was published on the Ministry of Justice under the headline New Personal Protection Act. It says, by permission of the president: To speed up the case as best possible, the secretary of state will seek the pre-sponsored approval of the General Assembly for the implementation of the GDPR protocol in the EEA agreement next week. Then a prime minister's review of the implementation of the Regulation in Icelandic rights was adopted at a government meeting this morning and a bill will be submitted to a new Enforcement Act at the General Assembly next week. And go on: Therefore, government plans are that the implementation of the Regulation in the EEA Convention and the implementation of a new law on personal protection will be completed before the Council leaves for a summer break. Go on, with President's permission: Until today, the EU's legal protection has been the same as that of the national government in the field of personal protection and has been regarded as part of the internal market. The EFTA Treaty has made its views very clear to the European Union that until the GDPR protocol takes place in the EEA Convention, the current personal protection directive will maintain its value in dealing with the EFTA countries with countries within the EU. The interim situation between the implementation of the GDPR Regulation in the EU and its uptake in the EEA Convention should therefore not cause interference in the use of personal information on the internal market of the EEA.◯ Mr. President. This second quote, on the fact that the EFTA countries presented their views to the European Union, gives special attention. Why does it attract special attention? You see, that's because it's no longer what the press release was called on May 25 when it was published. It was changed on May 28. There is no mention of what was changed or why. They're just supposed to find out what was changed. Was this a minor adjustment? Or was it being transformed into important things? Mr. President. That is exactly what the announcement was made to important things. It previously stated that the EFTA government has published a declaration of the situation until the GDPR system works. In the new edition, they have promoted their views. That's not all. The first edition also mentioned that the European Union, a law office in the European Union, would produce a similar declaration. It's completely gone from the press release. This is of utmost importance to a person's case. There, two statements have disappeared without a trace from the press release. Didn't the Ministry know what it was saying in the original announcement? Was this the case a lack of knowledge of the subject and the way things work? Or was there something else that you might have prepared for? Was it meant to calm those who felt that justice was about to develop by making up that statements on both sides had been made? The Ministry of Justice and the Minister of Justice and all of us need to recognize that, despite all the details of the Icelandic government, the source of the Ministry of Justice in these matters is being observed. People have been waiting for how these matters are resolved. In fact, there were people in this country and, indeed, in foreign lands, who also read the ministries of the Ministry's first press release and immediately began looking for informed statements but found none of them anywhere. This is a serious matter and is, in effect, quite indistinguishable that the Ministry, the Honorable Ministry of Justice, behaves in this way. Mr. President. Here, everything is learned in the same book; lack of carefulness and flubber. Of course, it is tragic to have to present this sad story with everyone. Of course, the responsibility is the highest. Minister of Justice, together with the rest of the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u95	Mr. President. There's some positive things in this bill, what I've learned at the very short time we've had for it, as we've been here today. The bill, on the other hand, is very much woody and burdensome. Its primary objective is to provide individuals with additional protection and increased rights to treat personal information. The treatment of personal information, contact with such information, and translation will be considered. All of this sounds good and is a noble goal in itself, but the results of the bill will be broad and nearly all aspects of society, as we have seen. That is why this bill calls for a careful discussion at the Assembly Hall. The tactics we've seen here, and most members of Congress have come up with, how this has entered the council with great shame, are not open to us, especially in view of the magnitude and severity of the bill. Then we came to what has been mentioned here, and I spoke in a talk this morning, the Propaganda of the International Assembly. Once again, it is proved true that the government claims to want to promote the Council. I'd like to step aside from the information about the bill from the Union of Iceland. It has made it a subject of the community's expense of new laws on personal protection. It says that the proposed legislation will require a new and improved personality protection procedure and will significantly affect all rural administrations and will result in considerable expense. There is concern about the bill's fines and that their application might have a burdensome effect on the business that would be accompanied by a reduction in services and on the rates of the taxpayers. At that time, the European Union of Iceland tells us that a number of elements of the bill are very vague and that clearly lacks the directives that rural society has on how it should be handled. This is fundamental. The estimate of local society's cost would thus depend on a high level of uncertainty, with a range of hundreds of millions of dollars playing. In the preparation of the cost assessment, the relationship was sought, including: in the building of one of the largest rural communities in the preparations as well as the local sisters in other parts of the North countries. All of them found it very difficult to evaluate the cost and that it could be, in fact, estimated only in the light of experience after a few hours. The Finnish community had the highest picture of the estimated pre-and annual cost of Finnish rural society. The Finns assumed that the preparatory cost of meeting the Regulation's requirements would be less than 2,300 k. To each resident. Achieved in Icelandic rural society would be a estimated cost, as it would be just less than 770 million. K. The annual cost of operating would be estimated to be about half of the preparatory cost of less than 390 million. K. Part of the cost of the bill would be attached to which rural areas would have to act regardless of their size. Thus, the cost of each Icelandic country should be higher than that of the Finnish figures. The relationship, on the other hand, evaluated the potential cost of rural society in preparing a new system of personal protection and the annual cost of land management permanently. The results of the evaluation are noteworthy, and they were somewhat higher than the Finnish assessment indicated. The preparatory cost was estimated to be 815 million. K. and a permanent cost of 390 million. K. In addition, most of the initiatives at the preparatory costs are involved in the project management and the mapping of municipal organisations and the processing of logs. The cost of these teams is estimated to be 600 million. At least 74% of the total cost. To meet the aforementioned teams, 370 billion are expected. K. budgets to cover the 30-year project managers who are directing the development of rural society to new laws. For the latter, it is expected that some 230 million people will have to be protected. K. The evaluation is done by medium-sized rural society and provides the basis for the number of times smaller and larger rural areas that may have to be purchased. The estimates range from 50 hours in the least of the rural communities up to 3003/4,500 hours in the largest. In addition, the work of fixed employees is expected to be performed and expected that before every hour a specialist is committed to two employees. The rest of the matter has to do with education and training, reviewing processes and the making of documents, implementation of the personal security system, making new contracts for processing agents, assessments to verify the use of scheduled pay to Perone Protection. To this end, it is expected that 215 million people will be protected. K. The Icelandic community estimates that the annual annual annual pay will be about 390 million. K. and lying in the range of 330◯470 million. K. All of this is of great interest, and it is worth considering a little more detail the costs of rural society without any objection or change in income stocks. During the first one to two years, the cost will be even larger, up to 480 million. K. That's even. in assuming that there is a need to add up to half the status of each government official for the first one to two years. The SEC is expected to be 14 member members of the community, four in Reykjavík, one in Kópavogi, Hafnarfjörður, and Gardavour, and then one in each of the seven parts of the country, and the estimated cost at them will be about 230 million. K., less than 59% of the total cost. Then it is expected to be 100 million. K. will be spent in annual on software negotiations and 50 million. K. in annual security tests and surveillance fees for the Peritoneal protection. V.E.G. In his talk, a minister spoke about a broad way of speaking. I can't see that this process has happened to my rural society and how they're going to meet this high cost. Many of them have no room to meet him and to carry out the procedure of the law and all the preparations needed. Today, some rural communities are unable to maintain normal school activities because of poor financial situation. You need to revise your country's income companies with the thought that there can be a powerful school effort, but it must also be answered here and now how the rural communities are going to survive the high cost of this bill that the government has brought in with no warning in this country without any further careful discussion. The man standing here is on a budget board. We've been discussing a financial program. I have not been aware that this came on the board of budget committees, and I do not recall that it was discussed that the funds needed to cover the high costs involved. There's talk of the need for a higher number of employees at Peronour Protection, but there's nowhere to discuss the localities, and I don't remember that they've had any opportunity to appear before the committee and describe their concerns over that point. Mr. President. I'd just like to go to the end of the bill's financial impact on financial funds. The report shows that at least 22 Full-time personal guardians. The cost of it could be up to 250 million. K. every year. In addition, other intercurrent costs, such as external assessment of the annual safety tests, can be expected. It could be up to 80 million. K. so we're talking about over 300 million. K. every year. Here, naturally, the great European Union's interest in officials and the keeping them as many as possible. Europeans in Iceland must be delighted and then likely to find the extra expenses this will bring to the government funds. Regarding government finesse said the highest. Ministers need to see how they'd develop. There is no answer, and showing that the preparation of the case is lacking on the part of the government, answering to say that it needs to see how government fines can be set up at least 2.5 billion dollars. This tells everything that needs to be said about the way this situation is coming in here and how it has been prepared. It is permitted to fine individuals, lawyers, including governments and institutions who are subject to a political system. Decisions regarding government fines will be taken from the Persian government government, but the fines will go into the state's budget at the end of the collections. Prior to the use of administrative fines, Persian protection has been possible according to Article 45. The bill is to place a date on the person under the direction of measures to reform. Guilt can study up to 200,000 dollars. every day that goes by or starts to pass without following the instructions. I've traced the high cost of developing this bill to my rural society. According to this, rural society may also be faced with high fines and, in addition to companies and individuals, we must not forget them in this discussion. Clearly, this matter needs much better and more careful discussion. Here are important factors, especially the cost of enforcing and implementing the law, the payment of fines, the clarity of the law, the instruction, etc., which requires much more consultation with stakeholders.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u96	A respectable president. Hv. A senator turned his attention to the burdensome effects of taxpaying. I wanted to think only of it, to deny it, to add to the other scales, the violation of privacy that can be taken from all, including taxpayers. It will come, for example. magazines, such as election damages, which have been discussed in the past few months, which are a set cost to society, and the profits made by non-convinced enterprises or personal information. I'd like to hear from you. A senator on either side of the balance should be warned. Should we be concerned about the burdensome costs of rural society, business, and various activities, including tax citizens, in order to protect ourselves against the yoke of a large brother, as revealed in Orwellur's famous book? I'd be delighted if it were. A senator would want to think about it a little.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u97	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The book of Björn, the Leví of Gunnarsson, for this interesting friendship during the discussion. There are certain scales there, I can totally agree with that. To me, it is primarily about that here is the lawgiver with a very extensive and burdensome bill, as has been mentioned, especially with the communities. There we have indeed heard that their financial situation is very variable. Some of them find it difficult to fulfill the legal role they already have. That's why I'm saying here and now that this bill has to go along with funding. The answer has not been answered. What is the source of money for projects for which our rural communities are expected to be involved? This is not the first issue where the government has something to do with the rural areas that have no income stocks. Therefore, it is vital that a wide, natural approach be made. I do not recall being given any opportunity to introduce a financial committee, for example, to describe their views on this matter. Other than that, I thank you for this interesting friend of yours. A senator and as many other good things that come from him. He has interesting views, and I appreciate that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u98	A respectable president. There are some technical problems with privacy. In the past, it was very difficult to get some information about people's personal interests because they did not have access to them on equipment that they now carry or carry anywhere, and they may not be aware of exactly what information they give away. They don't see it. It is one of much of what this bill works, that the information is being passed, and that it prefers to agree with it. It is the quality of technology that has been added since the time when these things could not be collected. The cost is sliding with technological development and the potentials that arise in parallel with the development of technology. But I strongly agree. A senator's opinion should be followed by financial support. I believe this bill should be reviewed by a financial committee, even if it does not end up on a budget board. Then the bill must have a significant impact on the various topics. We talked about personal protection earlier. There are probably no small coins that need to go on. Hv. A senator points to the SEC and how it affects the communities. Then it goes into the income exchange between rural partners and state. This is going to be an interesting discussion, which is affecting a huge number of surfaces, both to the future and to the development of future technology and the community religious structure that we now have, down to the income exchange of rural society and the state.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u99	Mr. President. I want to agree with what. A senator for a number of surfaces to be touched by the bill. The effects are widespread, and they really touch every aspect of society. At the expense of what I have discussed and have been the main target of my talks, the legal step will be as good as possible. A senator entered, which is certainly important, I do not want to diminish it at all. In the beginning, I said there were a lot of positive things in the bill. We're supposed to celebrate. But it turns to me primarily on the preparation I have mentioned, particularly in view of the very important issues presented here, corrective improvements in a particular field that is of utmost importance to all of us. All preparation must be done with care. Everyone sees that the members of Congress who received the bill delivered last night have had no way of studying any intelligent bill of less than 150 pages. I specifically studied the part of my community because it's important. There is little use in such a bill when financial provisions fail to introduce and prepare. It is a matter of concern to all of us here, especially to the government, who is always talking about promoting the work of the Generals and surveillance and so on, and then all is done and done in contrast. [[The president calls.]] The wealth of the General for the Government is natural pure and direct innuendo.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u100	Mr. President. I'm going to cut something in the same knee as that. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. I didn't expect we were going to talk about the same thing, but I should have been able to give it to me. Certainly, I agree. A senator may feel that the cost is very high and that many people are affected. Of course, a very good explanation for how this would be financed should have been provided. In fact, I recall that this year's budget had been expected to have a small increase. However, some would say that such institutions as Peritoneal protection, which have long been overcrowded and oppressed in the light of a strangular number of projects they have to deal with, and that their case will become more complex, would need to be well financed. I'd love to. Is it not reasonable that we as a community spent more money on protecting the very interest of individuals in the complex environment in which we live, whether it is in Peritoneal protection or in other government institutions or rural areas or so on the streets? Today, there are many companies outside the world whose survival is based on simply spying on the common people and selling raw data or processed data or services based on the data such as advertising mediated data. Some of these things are harmless, but many other things are not. In any case, it should preferably be in the power of each individual to determine whether they are being observed and how they are done. Personal protection is the institution to protect these interests of the citizens of this country, but then other governments have a place in it too. I would naturally feel that these institutions were funded for this role. That's what I'm talking about. A senator would agree with me on that?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u101	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthyr for his input into the discussion and that answer. I told you at the beginning I was all for this bill. There are a number of good things in it, important corrective measures in a particular area. I just agree with what. A senator says that there is a need to put some money on it. If it's necessary to hire 22 officials as soon as the bill is approved, I'll put a few short notices on that. I would have liked to see the calculations, how to find these numbers out, and if it had to cost so much money. There must be some ways to reduce the cost of this unless there is a loss of control. Once again, we are faced with the fact that here we are entering a massive and burdensome bill for a song to be introduced, e.g. In terms of rural society, which does not have room and means to play this role unless there is some change in rural income stocks. Then it's just another discussion we have to take. You see, it's just about time for this bill to be prepared. This should have been discussed in the context of the bill, how we deal with farm society's income so that they can perform this role as the government wants to be introduced with a very shame and very limited preparation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u102	Mr. President. Yeah, I agree with that. Of course, the exact amount of time that we get to discuss this and good reasons for taking the time we need to do it right is out of the picture. But I think I disagree on the basis of that maybe it's too good to attack the council of 22 employees to the Federal Protection Agency. I have now visited Peritoneal protection, actually a few years ago, and I was curious about the design. It made it seem interesting to me that there was no technician who worked there. Now Persian protection is a very technical profession. It may be mainly legal, but there are a number of technical issues that arise, and quite frankly, that such an institution did not possess a technician. The last time I had information that was a year ago, it was still the case. More employees, both on the legal side and on the other side, have been needed in a very long time. The question, though, may be, How much money is too much money to protect the rights of our citizens? How important it is to answer that question! If you believe that rights are absolute, the answer must be that no amount is high enough. But there is no reasonable person who treats the Kingdom Hall with such freeness or with other quirks. Somewhere, we have to pull the line. We'll have to say, one day it can spend so much, but not more than that. The balance of sleep. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson speaks of the question: Where do we draw the line, how do we draw it? Maybe a what? A senator helped me get out of this philosophical clip.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u103	Mr. President. That's interesting. Senator. The man standing here is now a spokesman for the Council of State, and I'm a member of the budget committee, and that's our job. 300 million bucks. Besides this year's protection, there's a lot of money. Regarding rural society, the annual cost of operating is up to 470 million. K. every year. That's a lot of money. It is our duty to consider very carefully whether it really is, so that there is so much growth in the Persian protection. Now I say that the excellent institution has done a very good job, I'm not going to reduce it. But we need to set priorities and see where the money works best. In this regard, it is very important that we get into the stitches of how much money we are ready to put into this first. V.E.G. In her earlier talk, a minister said that she was just going to see how this all developed. At that time, she was referring to a fine and a warrant for high fines found in this bill. I'm going to have to say that there's no planning. This has to go right into the stitches on it. Granted, things have been costly, but we need to ask ourselves: Are we ready to put all this money into this? Can this be done at a lower cost?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u104	Mr. President. I hereby recommend the Committee on Health Committee for a bill to correct the changes in pharmaceutical law, i.e. false medicines, Internet shops, and the company of medicines. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Einar Magnússon and Kristín Helgadóttir from the Ministry of Health, Lóa María Magnúsdóttir and Ólafur Ólafsson from Iceland's Drug Association, The Guðný Hjaltadóttir, Hálfdán Gunnarsson, and Ólafur Adolfsson from the Professionals' Society, Jakob Falur Garðarsson from the Early Canons and Guðmundur Óskarsson from Medicine Symptoms ehf. The committee also received reviews from the company of professional drivers, the Land Hospital, Iceland's Drug Administration Association, Perlon Protection, and Iceland's Medical Insurance. The bill is aimed at implementing the national law of the Directive and of the Council 2011/62/EU from June 8, 2011 for the change in Directive 2001/83/EC for medicinal products intended for human use to prevent the illegal introduction of false medicinal products into the legal chain and the Commission's Regulation No. 699/2014 of design on the common logo to verify to the public the product by telecommunications, technical and electronic requirements and encryption requirements for the testing of its authenticity. Although the speakers in general were positive about the bill, they pointed to some points and particularly about the Regulation of Ministers. As the bill puts it in Article 3. that a minister is allowed in the Regulation to state the conditions and implementation of a pharmacy network. On the other hand, officials believe that it is important for a minister to set such a law. The Commission agrees with this indication and suggests a change in its proposal. At the same time, the National Institute of Medicine points out the importance of Regulation 4. the bill will be published concomitantly with the law's office or as soon as possible and the need to eliminate all administrative uncertainty, including about the status of the server and the condition that they must meet in order to be enrolled in a registry at the Marketing Authorisation. These comments are made by the Commission and directs to the Ministry that the implementation of the Regulation will be rushed as soon as possible. The Commission emphasizes that such regulations include: The requirements of the server should be met in order to be enrolled in a registry at the National Competent Authority. It is also necessary in the Regulation to handle how people identify themselves in order to obtain money from an Internet store. That's even. It is important to make sure that young people or children or persons who should not be able to obtain medication can do so through such a ministry. The European Medicines Agency also indicated that in each pan-European pharmacy, a prescription of medicinal products may be sold, but not specifically prescribed by each drug trade holder, and that the organisation can provide the addition of a set of requirements requiring that the pharmaceutical Marketing Authorisation Holder (s) may only be allowed to buy medical products from medical institutions. According to the Ministry, there is an overall review of the product laws, including it will be considered. The Commission feels that such a directive will follow a full re-evaluation of the pharmaceutical law in which the stakeholders will be consulted on this particular method of observation and therefore does not suggest the adjustment of this material in this review. The employment union's contribution expresses concern about the costs that inevitably result from the induction of the system for immigrants, particularly due to the rules of Regulation No. 141/011 about the package leaflets for this medicinal product. To date, immigrants have printed the Icelandic package leaflets and added to the outer packaging of the medicinal products by breaking the seal of the manufacturer and sealing the package. The induction of this new system makes it possible that an importer will open the outer package of the imported product and that he will need to remove the earlier single identity from the dataset system and install equivalent to the unique identity of the product. This is at high cost, and the Society believes that many medicines will simply disappear from the market because of the above costs that can again lead to a lack of drugs on the market. This could, in turn, result in less competition that could lead to higher levels of medicine. The Commission agrees with this concern of the company and directs it to the Ministry to find ways to limit this cost. The Committee refers to the electronic package leaflets of medicinal products as an example of possible counterimbursement, but to the other extent, it allows the Ministry to assess the measures to be taken to limit these costs. This latter is of utmost importance because the Icelandic Pharmacopoeia has a relatively small international level of activity. These are not just speculations and concerns; there is a real danger that drugs could fall out of a market will not be reacted in some way. Therefore, it is very important that the Ministry closely monitors the implementation of the law. In view of the above, the Committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following modification: Instead of the words "Environger, " it is permitted in Regulation to be rendered in Article 3. Section 3. Come on: The secretary shall set up a regulations that must be agreed on. Hv. paritaprevir Bryndís the wife of Haraldsdóttir was absent from the case, literature is considered to be in accordance with warrants at 4 mg. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Halldóra Mogensen and Sigurdrund Páll Jónsson are signing this opinion in advance. Other members of the nomaded literature are Elíasdóttir Furfjörður Furfjörður Elisdótttir, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristunnsdotir, Steinunn Tjörnnadótir, and Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-63.u105	Mr. President. I recommend here to the Commission's list of changes to bill to legalize various tax and tax expenditures, stock markets, debt balances and pressures. The Commission has discussed the situation and has brought in specialists from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, from the head of the state tax, from the Institutes of Employment and Industrial Association. The bill points to adjustments in various aspects of taxes and fees in eight laws. The changes were made to facilitate tax exchange conditions in relation to local market purchases, tax tax tax taxpaying regulations, electronic communications, and electronic display of pressures, wording of income from rented housing, and payment of remuneration on ungraded taxes and charges. In addition, changes in dates of various cost and stress days are proposed as a result of the hurrying of public remuneration in 2018. With 1 st. the bill is provided with a change to the 1st Unit B-joins 1.mg. 30. g. the legislation on income taxes requiring permission to dissociate from income taxation stocks of persons already created due to stock markets to further set up conditions. The adjustment involves the relaxation of the conditions relating to the individual and the partner they invest in and limitation of the obligation to meet the requirements for a certain period of time after the partial increase. The committee received indications that there is a greater need for change and a review of 1st Team B, 30 p.m. The tax law, but it's suggested in this bill. In view of this, the Commission considers it proper to request these changes in the directive and directs it to the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs to provide a more thorough review of the provision, taking into account the views presented. The Ministry's proposal will be made at the beginning of the 149th legislature. This is important because, of course, we're trying to contribute to investments in sceptres and innovation companies. In the 3rd. The bill is suggested in Article 3. 65. g. income tax laws will be required that the head of the State Treaty establish rules on the rights of compromise according to the article instead of the permission of a secretary for the implementation of a regulations in this setting. The government tax manager gives the rules at the beginning of each year to obtain confirmation of the minister. The governor presented the views to the committee that it was not necessary to establish a minister of the rules or that they would be placed at the beginning of each year, it would be sufficient for the head of state tax to be committed and published. The committee sought the Ministry's response to the change in the government taxpayer's proposal. The Ministry pointed out that willings to individuals could lead to significant changes in income taxation stocks and, therefore, tax doctors. It has been suggested that abnormal, even violations of the Constitution, would not have set up regulations or would not have access to the rules of the procedure. This argument was down behind the bill's motion. The committee proposes 3. The bill remains unchanged, but it also shows the importance of the requirement that the minister's confirmation of the rules of their revised version not to delay. In Comb 4. The bill is presented with adjustments to the reference to rent - house use at 3 mg. 66. g. the fiscal taxes are consistent with the changes made to a-line 1. mg. 58. g. and a Unit 5 number 70. gr. The law of last council. Again, a few of the articles on the bill show that the changes in dates related to tax stress and pay. The report on this point says that the recent application of individual application was conducted at the end of June each year, and a two - month delay was due, while the application of a law has been completed by the end of October. The timing of the end of stress has been determined by a lack of technical ability to repair the application within a short period of time. With rapid advances in technology, almost complete tax returns can now be provided for the entire majority of respondents, allowing it to reduce the amount of time required to produce considerable tax returns, e.g. is suitable for a summary of national interest. It is suggested that the day of stress be rushed and that, at the same time, it will have a very long period of time. 14th degree. The bill on insurance spending dues to pay and benets which are the standard payments is falsely stated for a person's pay date on July 1, where it is intended to be June 1 according to the main policy of the change. Hence, the committee gives corrective correction at the date of this event. According to this above, the Economic and Business Committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes presented in the Committee's opinion Under certain writings of him that stands here, Óli Kárason, and why. The men of Phreh, the Þorsteinn of Víglundsson, Braunzur the son of Níelsson, the Bryndís of Bordidi, the daughter of Haraldsdóttir, the Björn of Gunnarsson, the Þór of Gunnarsson, the daughter of Harðardóttir G.; the daughter of Ólafur, the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, and the daughter of Líneik Sævarsdóttir Savar. It should be noted that Ólafur Ísleifsson, an officer of the Committee, supports this opinion.
