ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-74.u1	Mr. President. I have felt sad in the last few days to hear the language that has existed here and to talk about a whole industry as if it were the scene of a handful of charlatans who stood around and gathered money with red eyes. They're businesses of all sizes, and they're all over the country, which are the living breads of society all over the country. Many of them face enormous challenges. The exports of the fishing road have been falling together and have not been reduced since 2008. The price is doubled and has doubled between years. Tax taxes and fishing costs are now a total of 60% of the profit of marine export companies. I'm going to vote with this in confidence that this is exactly as the words say; delaying urgent action to cope with the problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-74.u2	A respectable president. After a brief but quick discussion of fishing costs in this important industry, I am quite aware that once we return to the fall, there will be a great need for a great need for prior to the council to submit the data that has been won in the winter, including this: of the Summit Committee, of how today's fishing costs have become quite different and much higher, in fact, far greater, the share of the productions. What you notice in the conference hall is that everyone thinks it applies only to an SME. That's true of every factory in the country. Because of the immediate stress of the budget, this is reflected in the way tax and expenditure have become a very different percentage of revenues. That discussion requires serious recordings in the fall.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-74.u3	V.E.G. President. I support the conclusions already available, which include extension of the present arrangement, collecting year - to - year hunting fees. I agree with what has been said about the importance of studying permanently how the fishing arrangements should be decided and the handling of the problem that the bill originally appeared last week was intended to correct. Today, we have voted for two adjustments, each in its own way being wonderful. On the one hand, Piratar felt that it was a reason to blend whale - hunting into this in some way. All right, the Senate's told a lot about it. The other wonderful thing was the change in the Middle Party's proposal, which has an amazing record on it. [[Up front.]] First, the members of the Central Party are involved in providing the bill, so members of the Central Party report that the matter is established, and then the Middle House members are in agreement with others at the government stand to prevent any progress in this matter at the council. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] And now answer me.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-74.u4	A respectable president. I'd better do it. I was going to say something else, but it's best if I answer. Of course, the way this matter has been accomplished is a source of great disappointment. That is where the government has to look at itself. It is not possible to teach us the opposition to the government that little time has been made to them. [[The point is, why does it stop?]] Why does this stop you from getting involved? [[The president calls.]] Of course, this stopped before local elections were interrupted, and it came to pass during the day that only one party was going to stay. [[But this adjustment proposal...]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-74.u5	The president asks the senators to sit on their boy.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-74.u6	There the government groups were not going to live up to what had been agreed on with the political opposition parties. The middle party's position not to include any quick treatment for the subject on the program was devoted exclusively to it. That's exactly what's been happening, and we've always been waiting for us to believe that the price of hunting has to come for discussion and adjustment. It is simply a disgrace to the way the matter was drawn, i.e. that they did not have that discussion for the district election. If so, we would have received a material discussion that would have done good instead of the handback work we have seen here. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
